
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 41, Issue 3, pages 221-324. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:41+issue:3+year:1945&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Herndon's Contribution to Lincoln Mythology
            LOUIS A. WARREN
            
            The primary and perhaps the most important task of a painstaking biographer is to test the
                    reliability of his source material. The average historian is often tempted to throw the
                    responsibility for the accuracy of his deductions on other authors who have preceded him in the same
                    field of effort. This is accomplished by the use of a generous distribution of footnotes and
                    references, supplemented with an exhaustive bibliography. Supported by this array of evidences he
                    attempts to give his argument the tone of authority. This method of approach by many Lincoln
                    historians is responsible for the continual repetition of folklore and fable, until numerous,
                    untenable stories, so widely circulated, have become accepted generally as factual, and constitute
                    what we may term, "Lincoln Mythology."
            There is no collection of writings, consisting of manuscripts, correspondence, recorded traditions,
                    fragments of folklore, and personal reminiscences, which has contributed more definitely to the
                    current opinion of Abraham Lincoln's private life, than the compilation known as the
                    Herndon collection of Lincoln papers.1 One would lack the ability of
                    discrimination if he did not acknowledge the historical value of much of the information contained
                    in these documents, but he would also show the absence of nice perception 
                  
                     1 The originals of the Herndon-Weik Collection are in the Library of
                            Congress. They are divided into five main groups. 
                        I. Association Pieces 
                              A. A sheet from the home-made arithmetic book of Abraham Lincoln
                              B. A small volume of clippings on the slavery question
                              C. Lincoln's "Campaign Book," consisting of
                                            miscellaneous clippings, said by William H. Herndon to have been used
                                            principally in the Lincoln-Douglas debates
                           
                        
                        II. Letters and documents written by or to Lincoln 
                              A. Letters and documents in Lincoln's hand or signed by
                                        him
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
                     if he did not at once recognize a preponderance of data
                    appearing in the memoranda, which both common sense and public records make void.
            The mere fact that the Herndon papers were assembled by a law partner of Lincoln was of tremendous
                    importance from the viewpoint of the student searching for reliable data. The supposition that the
                    first book interpreting these manuscripts was written by Ward H. Lamon, one of Lincoln's
                    closest friends, gave additional prestige to the book and its supporting documents, until the famous
                    papers assumed a certain degree of infallibility. So authoritative have they become that even
                    Lincoln's own statements about certain family history and other personal affairs have been
                    pushed aside, when coming in conflict with conclusions drawn from the Herndon sources. With the
                    reliability of both papers and interpreting author apparently established because of such personal
                    and friendly contacts, it is a severe jolt, indeed, to know that the first interpretation of the
                    Herndon papers was not by the friendly Lamon, but a hostile biographer named Chauncey F. Black. He
                    featured the questionable episodes, discovered in the Herndon data, which would place Lincoln in the
                    most unenviable light.2
            
            It has been just a hundred years now since the Lincoln-Herndon partnership was formed. This
                    relationship placed William Herndon in a position to make some positive contribution to a
                    trustworthy recording of facts about his senior partner. It is not strange that in this centennial
                    atmosphere some effort might be made to inquire whether or not Herndon measured up to his great
                    opportunity, or on the other 
                  
                            
                        
                                    
                              B. Copies: letters and documents included as by Lincoln
                              C. Letters to Lincoln
                           
                                
                        III. Legal documents in Herndon-Weik collection described as "Lincoln Law
                                    Cases"
                        IV. Correspondence, miscellaneous documents, and copy for proposed publication,
                                    directly associated with William H. Herndon
                        V. Correspondence, miscellaneous documents, and copy for proposed publication,
                                    directly associated with Jesse W. Weik
                     
                        
                  
                     2 Chauncey F. Black was the ghost-writer for Ward H. Lamon. He was the
                            son of Jeremiah S. Black, cabinet member in the Buchanan administration, and, therefore,
                            Democratic in his prejudice toward Lincoln. See letter by Historicus, in Harper's Weekly (62 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1857-1916), LV (July 22, 1911), 6. Also Albert V. House, Jr., "Trials
                            of a Ghost-Writer of Lincoln Biography," Journal of 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Society (
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     , 1908-), XXXI (1938), 262-296.
               
                     hand, set in motion, by allowing the unwise use of his papers,
                    certain conclusions which have blocked the way to an appreciative undertsanding of the President.
            The task of this inquiry might properly fall upon Indiana critics, because the famous papers were
                    acquired from Herndon by Jesse W. Weik, of 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana, and for almost a half a century were housed in the state. Three of the five
                    Lincoln works which used the Herndon manuscripts as source material were written in Indiana, or
                    written by Indiana men.
            With the trustworthiness of many of the manuscripts in question, and the interpreters who used them
                    making many conflicting deductions from them, it appears that William Henry Herndon, instead of
                    attaining the roll of another Boswell, has become the master Lincoln mythmaker.3
            
            There is no intention to examine the myths he created and elaborate upon them, although some brief
                    references to many of them will appear as the argument proceeds. The objective will be more
                    successfully achieved by directing our attention to various interpretations of the manuscripts.
                    Regardless 
                  
                     3 A few of the more current of these myths may be noted. 
                        The Paternity Myth, identifying Lincoln as an illegitimate child.
                        The Shiftless Father Myth, portraying his putative father as worthless vagabond.
                        The Maternal Lineage Myth, making his own mother a fatherless waif in childhood
                                    and a loose woman at maturity.
                        The Poverty Myth, associating the Lincolns with the poor white trash of the South,
                                    and Abraham as a poverty-stricken youth.
                        The Sweetheart Myth, featuring a romance with Ann Rutledge which took place only
                                    in Herndon's realm of imagination.
                        The Obscurity Myth, emphasizing his insignificance during the 
                                        Illinois
                                     years, and his meager recognition until 1860.
                        The Matrimony Myth, portraying Lincoln's marrying for self-advancement,
                                    and his wife a "she-devil" whose off-springs were
                                    "brats."
                        The Failure Myth, setting him up as a proverbial bankrupt, and a lame duck,
                                    politically.
                        The Infidelity Myth, misrepresenting his religious background and his theological
                                    opinions.
                        The Slavery Myth, denying him any slavery convictions in youth, and making his
                                    abolition interests solely political.
                        The Escape Myth, propagating the story of John Wilkes Booth's alleged
                                    escape, which fable has now evolved into a mummy or a dummy parade.
                        The Benefactor Myth, accounting for Lincoln's greatness by the guidance
                                    and influence of his junior law partner.
                     
                  
               
                     of the fact that hundreds of monographs have been influenced by
                    the Herndon papers, on only five different occasions, until their recent deposit in the Library of
                    Congress, have the original documents served as primary sources. The five authors and their
                    respective contributions to be featured are: Herndon's expositions of his own papers in a
                    series of lectures; Lamon's purchase of the documents with Black serving as the
                    interpreter, resulting in a one-volume book; Weik's acquisition of the manuscripts in which
                    he had the collaboration of Herndon and from which came the three-volume edition, also, the
                    one-volume work personally produced by Weik; Beveridge's access to the papers which
                    contributed to the two volumes of his anticipated complete life; and Hertz's publication of
                    many of the originals in a one-volume edition.
            The mammoth scrapbook which Jesse W. Weik made while he was collaborating with William Herndon on the
                    famous Lincoln volumes is now the property of the Lincoln National Life Foundation. It provides
                    important information about the reaction of Lincoln's friends and contemporary literary
                    critics to the first three attempts to give the public a glimpse of the famous Herndon documents.
                    These testimonies are of extreme importance in attempting to pass upon the mythical character of the
                    deductions. It is to be regretted some are not dated.
            A series of addresses on Abraham Lincoln, which Herndon delivered in 1865 and 1866, was the first
                    intimation which the public in general received that he aspired to write a biography of the martyred
                    President. The fact that Herndon had been Lincoln's law partner, no doubt, encouraged the
                    people to believe that his contributions would be based on personal observations. It was not until
                    November 16, 1866, when he delivered his famous lecture, Abraham Lincoln, Miss Ann
                        Rutledge, 
                            New Salem
                        , Pioneering and the Poem,4 that any recorded unfavorable
                    reaction to his conclusions was forthcoming.
            Mrs. C. H. Dall, of 
                        Boston
                    , visited 
                        Springfield
                     about the time the now famous lecture was delivered. Upon her return 
                  
                     4 William H. Herndon, Abraham Lincoln, Miss Ann Rutledge, 
                                    New Salem
                                , Pioneering and the Poem, A Lecture Delivered in the Old Sangamon County
                                Court House, November, 1866 (
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     ,
                            1910).
               
                     home, she wrote a long letter about an interview she had with
                    Herndon in which she concluded: 
                  
                     
                        We must trust Mr. Herndon, also, because this nation owes him a great debt. It was he
                                    who first led Mr. Lincoln to anti-slavery convictions. Bitterly refusing office at
                                    the President's hands, he kept the friends moral power to the very last.
                                    God grant he may live to complete a work which no one else would ever have the
                                    courage to undertake.5
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Hendron saw this published letter which elaborated on the Rutledge-Lincoln story and also discussed
                    pioneer life in the West, and then wrote in the footnote of a message to Charles H. Hart, with whom
                    he was carrying on a voluminous correspondence, "It is all substantially true and
                        correct."6
            
            Herndon, however, was not the only 
                        Springfield
                     person to read Mrs. Dall's comment on the interview with him, and her reaction
                    toward men of the West in general. A letter dated 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , January
                    25, 1867, and signed "Amgis" was sent to the 
                        Boston
                    
                    Daily Advertiser commenting on some of Mrs. Dall's conclusions. It said
                    in part: 
                  
                     
                        With no disposition to depreciate Mr. Herndon, or to wound his feelings, respect for
                                    my own state, and for the memory of Mr. Lincoln, compels me to say that
                                    "Mr. Herndon's lectures are regarded here as caricatures upon the
                                    life, habits, and manners of the late President, and there can be no doubt,
                                    whatever, that if Mr. Herndon ever completes his biography, it will be characterized
                                    by the same rambling, conceited qualities that are so conspicious in his lectures.
                                    Whatever other qualities Mr. Herndon possesses, his is not distinguished for taste,
                                    or style in literature; and he is no more a representative of the people of 
                                        Springfield
                                    , or the state of 
                                        Illinois
                                    , than David Crockett was of the people of 
                                        Tennessee
                                    . He seems to imagine that he is the very man above all others to write
                                    Lincoln's biography, and that he is to immortalize himself by this effort.
                                    Nevertheless, I have never heard one of Mr. Lincoln's friends express other
                                    sentiments than those of regret, that he should have undertaken to write the life of
                                    one, whose memory is so dear to us all as that of a friend, as it is to the country
                                    as that of a statesman and patriot. If you have read the sketches of Mr.
                                    Herndon's lectures, you have seen a fair picture of the man. He is
                                    "Bill Herndon" a man "sui generis", but neither
                                    entitled to be a representative of 
                                        Springfield
                                    , or the West, not, a biographer of any other man, than himself. His
                                    lectures aré Bill-iania, and his book will be Billy-Herndoniana, neither
                                    more nor less."7
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  5
                        
                            Boston
                        
                        Daily Advertiser, December 15, 1866. Much of the same material appears in C.
                        H. Dall, "Pioneering," Atlantic Monthly (
                            Boston
                        , 1857-), XIX (1867), 403-416.
               
                  6 Emanuel Hertz, The Hidden Lincoln, From, the Letters and
                            Papers of William H. Herndon (
                            New York
                        , 1938), 54.
               
                  7
                        
                            Boston
                        
                        Daily Advertiser, January 25, 1867.
            
            
            This letter clearly implies that at least one person in Herndon's own town was not very
                    favorably impressed with his humility or his literary ability. There were those, however, who lived
                    afar off who were in accord with Mrs. Ball's estimate of Herndon's qualifications
                    to write the biography of Lincoln. The 
                        Rochester
                    
                    Express on November 24, 1866, mentioned the purpose of Herndon to write a
                    biography and stated editorially, "We observe that William H. Herndon one of the noblest
                    representatives, intellectually and morally, of the America which is to be, has made a public
                    request for all the letters written by Abraham Lincoln."8 A month
                    later, the same paper stated: 
                        It is well known that William H. Herndon, the law partner and confidential friend of Mr.
                            Lincoln for nearly a quarter of a century, is slowly and thoughtfully writing the biography
                            of the great President. It is a great history in the hands, destined by 
                                Providence
                             to do the work, for in all that goes to make up the highest manhood, the
                            biographer is probably the superior to the subject.9
                  
                    
                
            Regardless of what a woman in 
                        Boston
                     and a man in 
                        Rochester
                     thought of William Herndon's literary ability, there is plenty of evidence
                    that "Amgis," the 
                        Springfield
                     correspondent, was more likely to speak with authority from Iris short range viewpoint.
                    We have every reason to believe, by other statements supporting his comments, that he expressed the
                    general reaction to the lectures of those who knew Herndon best.
            The news correspondent, George Alfred Townsend, visited Herndon at 
                        Springfield
                    , in January, 1867, two months after the famous address and wrote out the substance of
                    his conversations with Lincoln's famous law partner for the 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune. With respect to the death of Ann Rutledge, he claimed Herndon told him
                    this: 
                        About the time when they [Abraham and Ann], passed from courtesy to tenderness, and marriage
                            between them was more than hinted at, the sick man [McNamar] returned like a ghost, gauged
                            the condition of affairs, and upbraided the lady with fickleness. She had a delicate sense
                            of honor, and felt keenly the shame of having seemed to trifle with two gentlemen at once;
                            this preyed upon her mind till her body, not very strong, suffered by sympathy, and Mr.
                            Herndon has oral and written testimony that the girl died out of regret at the 
                        
                           8
                                    
                              Rochester, New York
                           , Express, November
                                    24, 1866.
                        
                           9
                                    Ibid., December 21, 1866.
                     
                             equivocal position she had unwittingly assumed. The
                            names of all the parties he has given me, but I do not care to print them.10
                  
                    
                
            Twenty-three years after Herndon delivered his famous lecture, he wrote to Jesse Weik,
                    "Again, the more I think of the Ann Rutledge story, the more do I think that the girl had
                    two engagements, i. e., that she was engaged to two men at one and the same [time]."11
            
            Some years after Herndon's death, Weik prepared an article about the Rutledge story, for the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, in which he revealed that much of the source material for the romance
                    came from "Lincoln's most intimate friend, "Slicky," otherwise
                    William Green."12 This is the same "Slicky" Green in
                    whom Herndon said he had no confidence and called him a "hifaluting" exaggerator;
                    yet, apparently Herndon depended largely on Green and John Hill for many details in the Rutledge
                    story, such as Lincoln's graveyard episode.
            Weik gives us this interesting observation about Lincoln's alleged mental collapse after the
                    death of Ann Rutledge.
            
                    The strain was too great for Lincoln. He wandered away from the place, and many believed him
                        insane. Again his devoted friend, "Slicky" Green, hunted him up. He took the
                        distracted lover to his own home and nursed him back to reason. Green lived at the foot of a
                        hill and near the river, and probably had more influence over Lincoln than any other man then
                        living. Years after Ann Rutledge's death, Lincoln visited Green. They walked together
                        one moonlight night along the river bank. Both were then married and had families. They talked
                        of their younger days, and Lincoln spoke of Ann Rutledge. Ho clutched Green by the arm and, with
                        tears in his eyes, told him he "hoped the winds of earth might never sigh, nor the snow
                        of heaven be permitted to fall on the grave of the only woman he ever loved."13
               
                
            It is difficult to find a Lincoln student, today, who has given any serious attention to the Rutledge
                    story and all its ramifications, who is not confident the entire love story as it relates to Lincoln
                    is only a piece of fiction from untenable sources, which can be refuted in its entirety by a
                    chronological 
                  
                     10
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune, January 25, 1867. Also George A. Townsend, The Real
                                Life of Abraham Lincoln (
                                New York
                            , 1867), 7.
                  
                     11 Hertz, The Hidden Lincoln, 236.
                  
                     12
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal. This undated clipping is in the Weik Scrap Book, Lincoln National
                            Life Foundation Library, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid. See also 
                                Petersburg
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            , The Menard Axis, February 15, 1862.
               
                     record of the people and places associated with the story. It
                    is in reality a re-writing of the John McNamar-Ann Rutledge romance, substituting Lincoln for
                    McNamar and utilizing episodes in Lincoln's romances with Mary Owen and Mary Todd.
            Whether or not the unfavorable comments on Herndon's temperamental and literary shortcomings
                    discouraged him in the book project, this fact is certain that he attempted to dispose of his
                    records as early as February 24, 1869, when he asked a correspondent Hart to make some inquiries
                    about their probable value and then concluded, "I may not sell, may finish the life myself,
                    cannot tell."14 Three months earlier Herndon had tried to induce Hart
                    to secure for him a loan of $8,000, stating in the letter, "I am worth
                        $50,000."15
            
            In the meantime, Herndon had been corresponding with Ward H. Lamon about the records and had
                    submitted some of the documents for Lamon and his "corps of literary friends" to
                    look over. Finally on September 17, 1869, Herndon sold to Lamon his "Lincoln records in
                    three volumes for the consideration of $4,000 cash in hand paid," empowering him
                    "to sell, publish, use or dispose of said records as he wishes or wills."16
            
            Lamon had interested in the biography project a man of some literary ability, Chauncey Black. Whether
                    it was Black's financial or political urge that prompted him to accept the assignment of
                    interpreting the Herndon manuscripts, we may never know, but it was the biased political stand
                    displayed in his copy that brought suddenly to a close the contemplated two-volume work.
            John Spencer Clark wrote to Horace White a letter and enclosures, which were printed in the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Historical Society publication. Clark set forth in this correspondence some facts
                    relating to the publishing of the so-called Lamon book. He stated: 
                        Some time in 1870 Col. Ward H. Lumon appeared on the scene as the owner of all the Herndon
                            material, which he had purchased. … and he stated that this material was to be
                            used and put in literary form by Chauncey Black, a clever writer, and a son of Jeremiah
                            Black, a tough, hard-headed old democrat of the pro-slavery school, and a 
                        
                           14 Hertz, The Hidden Lincoln, 58.
                        
                           15
                                    Ibid., 56.
                        
                           16
                                    Ibid., 61-62.
                     
                             leading, if not the dominating spirit, on
                            constitutional questions in the Buchanan Cabinet.
                        I raised objection to a life of Mr. Lincoln being prepared under such apparently hostile
                            influences, and Colonel Lamon assured me that nothing politically hostile to Mr. Lincoln
                            should go into the work. …17
                  
                    
                
            The contract for the book was signed, however, and the complete life of Lincoln was anticipated.
                    Clark's prophecy about Black's attitude toward Lincoln was confirmed before very
                    much of the copy was presented, and in one instance a whole chapter was eliminated because of the
                    partisan viewpoint of Black. When Clark discovered that Black was sacrificing Lincoln to uphold the
                    Buchanan administration and learned that Black's political bias was "stronger than
                    his desire to have full justice done to Mr. Lincoln's memory"18 both Clark and Lamon broke with Black.
            It was a tragedy, indeed, that the Herndon manuscripts first fell into the hands of a man hostile to
                    Abraham Lincoln and then were released as having been written by a close friend, Lamon. As Clark
                    well said, the results showed "The futility of endeavoring to combine essentially
                    antagonistic elements in the production of an important literary work."19 Black had no admiration for the subject of the biography, and he did not go out of his way
                    to test the validity of the mass of folklore and fable before him, with the result, that much of the
                    most untenable gossip on the personal life of Abraham Lincoln, was first laid before the people by a
                    political and sectional antagonist. No one will ever be able to estimate the great injustice done to
                    Lincoln and the members of his family by the hypocritical Black, who posed as a friend and then
                    defamed the man he really despised. His deductions about Lincoln's private life did more
                    than any other work to influence all subsequent Lincoln biographers writing on the subject.
            Possibly, the reaction in the South to the Lamon book can be well expressed by presenting the
                    concluding paragraph of a review appearing in the Southern Magazine for September,
                    1872. It states: 
                  
                     17 John S. Clark, "Lamon's "Life of
                            Lincoln,"" 
                                Massachusetts
                             Historical Society, Proceedings (
                                Boston
                            , 1791-), LI (1918), 498-499.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., 500.
                  
                            19
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                    
                    
                        The author—or compiler—has gathered from all sources, but especially
                            from Mr. Herndon, Mr. Lincoln's intimate associate and business partner, a vast
                            mass of material; and has used it, as he affirms, and as we see no reason to doubt,
                            conscientiously and justly. The whole story of this career (Lincoln's) from
                            beginning to end is so dreary, so wretched, so shabby, such a tissue of pitiful dodging and
                            chicanery, so unrelieved by anything pure, noble, or dignified, that even to follow it as
                            far as we have done, has well-nigh surpassed our powers of endurance; and when, putting all
                            partisan feeling aside, we look back at the men who once were chosen by their countrymen to
                            fill the places that this man has occupied—a 
                                Washington
                            , a Jefferson, a 
                                Madison
                            , an Adams, or later, a Webster, a 
                                Clay
                            , or a Calhoun—men of culture and refinement, of honor, of exalted
                            patriotism, of broad views and wise statesmanship—measure the distance from them
                            to Abraham Lincoln, we sicken with shame and disgust. W.H.B.20
                  
                    
                
            While the Atlantic Monthly has not always used discretion in the selection of its
                    Lincoln features, a few excerpts will show the brilliant review it gave the Lamon book in 1872.
            
                    We think every one will find Mr. Lamon's "Life of Lincoln" a book of
                        uncommon interest, whatever may be the opinion of its wisdom, its reliability, and its
                        propriety. On all these points we confess to having doubts, and on one at least something more
                        than a doubt. We cannot see what there was in the career or the character of Lincoln that
                        justifies Mr. Lamon in dragging from the dead man's grave the miserable fact of his
                        unhappy marriage, and thrusting it again and again before the reader. It was a point that needed
                        only to be touched with the lightest hand, to which it would have yielded all that was
                        qualifying and significant in it; but this shameless pressure upon it, this record of
                        preliminary occurrences, these hints of the spiritual squalor and the cruel suffering of his
                        marriage, do nothing to explain Lincoln; and they form a violation of the silence of death, and
                        aggression upon the right of those yet living—the widow and the blameless
                        children—to the oblivion which at least temporarily falls upon such facts. This is
                        the chiefly unpardonable feature of a work which has many features hard to forgive, and which
                        treats all Mr. Lincoln's love affairs with a maudlin insistence and a fumbling
                        melodramatic sentimentality very repugnant to taste and trying to patience. …
                    The history of Mr. Lincoln's childhood and early life is exceedingly full and minute. It
                        appears to us at times quite too full to be quite true. There are few things so untrustworthy as
                        the memory of a great man's boyhood friends and old neighbors concerning his life among
                        them. The passion for distinction at his expense through indiscriminate praise or gross
                        derogation, is one that few of them can resist; and even when their recollections are confronted
                        and compared, it must be wellnigh impossible to sift the truth from them, to gather the grains
                        of wheat from the bushels of chaff. However, this only tells against 
                     
                        20
                                Southern Magazine (17 vols., 
                                    Baltimore
                                . 
                                    Maryland
                                , 1868-1875), IV (1872), 368.
                  
                         Mr. Lamon's book in greater degree than it tells
                        against other biographies trusting to similar material, and it must be owned that the use of it
                        is by no means unguarded. …
                    Rarely in the whole course of literature have all the disguises of privacy been so stripped from
                        any human character. It is as if it stood naked before the world.21
               
                
            Since we have observed the reaction of Herndon's neighbors in 
                        Springfield
                     to the series of Lincoln lectures he delivered there, possibly it might be of value to
                    throw some further light on Herndons indirect contribution to mythology in the Lamon volume, as
                    viewed by a former acquaintance of both Lincoln and his law partner. A. L. Bledsoe, the editor of
                    the Southern Review, was a man of recognized literary ability who lived in the
                    Lincoln neighborhood in 
                        Illinois
                     for many years during Lincoln's residence there and was well acquainted with
                    Lincoln at the time. Bledsoe was no lover of Lincoln, but he did state that Lincoln was one of the
                    most extraordinary human beings that has figured in history. He claimed that it was Lamon's
                    book that revealed to him for the first time Lincoln's ruling passion, something that he
                    had never before been able to discover until he read these lines: "It must by this time be
                    clear to the reader that Mr. Lincoln was never agitated by any passion more intense than his
                    wonderful thirst for distinction."22 This passion, according to Black,
                    is the very key to the whole mystery of Lincoln's advancement.
            If Herndon had this impression of his partner he must have discounted Lincoln's speech made
                    in 
                        Springfield
                     at the close of the senatorial campaign in 1858, when he said: "Ambition has
                    been ascribed to me. God knows how sincerely I prayed from the first that this field of ambition
                    might not be opened."23 He then admitted that he claimed "no
                    insensibility" to political honors but qualified his personal ambition by this remarkable
                    affirmation: 
                        Today could the 
                                Missouri
                             restriction be restored, and the whole slavery question be replaced on the old
                            ground of "toleration," by 
                        
                           21 "Recent Literature," Atlantic Monthly, XXX (1872), 364, 369.
                        
                           22 Albert T. Bledsoe, book review of The Life of
                                        Abraham Lincoln; From His Birth to His Inauguration as President, by Ward
                                    H. Lamon, in the Southern Review (26 vols., 
                              Baltimore, Maryland
                           , 1867-1879), XII (1873), 349. Also Ward H. Lamon,
                                        The Life of Abraham Lincoln; From His Birth to His Inauguration as
                                        President (
                                        Boston
                                    , 1872).
                        
                           23 Paul M. Angle (comp.), New Letters and Papers
                                        of Lincoln (
                                        Boston
                                    , 1930), 198.
                     
                            
                            necessity, where it exists, with unyielding hostility to the spread of it,
                            on principle, I would, in consideration, gladly agree, that Judge Douglas should never be
                                out, and I never in, an office, so long as we both
                            or either, live.24
                  
                    Of course, there are those today who would easily brush this statement aside by calling it a
                    piece of political oratory, although in the minds of some people, Lincoln's integrity is
                    still a basic element in his character.
            Inasmuch as Bledsoe's comments on the Lamon version of the Herndon manuscripts became the
                    primary source of Lincoln mythology in the South, it is important that further consideration be
                    given to his conclusions. Bledsoe commented: 
                        It is believed, by the world at large, that the hatred of oppression, coupled with the love
                            of freedom, was Mr. Lincoln's ruling passion. Nothing is farther from the truth.
                            Some of his biographers, indeed, such as Bacon and Holland, would have us to believe that
                            Mr. Lincoln inherited this ruling passion from his father, Tom Lincoln, who, it is said,
                            left 
                                Kentucky
                             on account of his hatred of the institution of slavery. Colonel Lamon has
                            forever dispelled this illusion. "It has pleased some of Mr. Lincoln's
                            biographers," says he, "to represent this removal of his father (from 
                                Kentucky
                             to Indiana) as a flight from the taint of slavery. Nothing (he continues) could
                            be further from the truth. …"
                        Tom Lincoln, as Colonel Lamon shows, fled from justice and not from slavery. For having, in a
                            low brawl with one Onlow, a mean blackguard like himself, bit off his nose and left his face
                            disfigured for life, he found it convenient to escape from Hardin county and hide himself in
                            the wilds of Indiana. There young Abe, about four years old at the time of the hegira or
                            flight, was raised, in a little cabin fourteen feet square, made of rough, unhewn logs or
                            poles, and daubed with mud.
                        This hole was, literally, "a cage of unclean birds." For Tom Linkhorn, as he was then called, and Nancy Hanks, the father and mother of our
                            hero, were never married, but just lived together, and cohabited, like the lower sort of
                            negroes of the State from which they had fled. When we heard the late Governor Morehead, of 
                                Kentucky
                            , state this fact, as well known to Tom Linkhorn's
                            neighbors in 
                                Hardin county
                            , we set it down as one of the thousand and one rumors which political prejudice
                            and passion had forged. But it is proved and substantiated by Colonel Lamon in his biography
                            of Lincoln. There the two "mean whites" lived, like the lowest of negroes,
                            in their hut, without door or window, and with no other floor than the naked earth.
                            … He never had the least respect for father or mother—for Tom Linkhorn or Nancy Hanks. On the contrary, he always abhorred his own
                            father, the brute Tom Linkhorn, and had no tender feeling for his mother,
                            Nancy Hanks. It is no wonder, then, that he should have become, as he did, a determined
                                
                        
                                    24
                                    Ibid.
                                
                     
                             and bitter infidel all the rest of his days. Indeed, if
                            he had been required to say the Lord's Prayer, its very first word, "Our
                                Father," must have made him shudder.
                            "When he went to Church at all," says his biographer, "he went to
                            mock, and came away to mimic." This became the confirmed habit of his soul and
                                conduct.25
                  
                    
                
            Bledsoe's comment on Abraham Lincoln's stepmother is of interest. He said: 
                        But, like a good woman, she … devoted herself to the cultivation of the rising
                            genius of young Abe. She came too late, however, to modify his habits or to correct his
                            mocking and sneering infidelity, which continued with him to the day of his death. He always
                            called her mother, and loved her as one; but the blood of Nancy Hanks ran in his veins, and
                            the brutality of Thomas Linkhorn showed itself in his actions.26
                  
                    
                
            Just what Bledsoe thought of Herndon, whom he knew very well in the 
                        Illinois
                     days, and depended upon indirectly for the above information about Lincoln's
                    parents, is quite important in considering the eligibility of Lincoln's law partner to
                    qualify as his biographer.
            
                    The little men about him [Lincoln]—the Herndons of 
                            Illinois
                        —thought they understood him, because they were always at his elbow; and
                        forthwith, as soon as he was dead, set up as great oracles to let all the world know what manner
                        of man Abraham Lincoln was. … It is an old saying, and true as it is old, that
                        "no man is a hero to his valet"; but, as Hegel has well said, "it is
                        the fault of the valet." It was the fault of Mr. Herndon, that he had no soul, no mind,
                        no eye for the really remarkable qualities of Mr. Lincoln. Hence, valet though he was, he thinks
                        himself a much greater man than his hero. "Lincoln," says he, "was a
                        natural anti-slavery man, as I think, and yet he needed
                        watching." So, in other places, he represents himself as keeping Mr. Lincoln, as
                        watching and training him, and preparing him for "his great career," when the
                        time should arrive to put him on the race-track of glory, allowing him to enter neither too soon
                        nor too late to win, but just in the nick of time. The world is thus given to understand that it
                        owes Abraham Lincoln to William H. Herndon (no very great obligation, perhaps,) his quondam
                        law-partner. We wonder how Colonel Lamon, whose Life of Lincoln contains many
                        similar statements, reconciled them with a decent regard for the character of his hero.
                    Again, says Mr. Herndon, Lincoln "needed hope, faith, energy, and I think I
                            warmed him. Lincoln and I were just the opposites of one another. He was cautious and
                        practical; I spontaneous, ideal, and speculative. He arrived at truths by reflection, I by
                        intuition; he by reason, I by my soul. He calculated; I went to toil asking no questions, 
                     
                        25 Bledsoe, book review of The Life of Abraham
                                    Lincoln …, in the Southern Review, XII, 340-342.
                     
                        26
                                Ibid., 344.
                  
                         never doubting. Lincoln had great faith in my intuitions,
                        and I had great faith in his reason." Only he "needed watching."
                        Thus, according to Mr. Herndon, Lincoln was the cold, creeping, calculating reasoner; while he
                        was the warm, spontaneous, glowing, and gifted seer. …27
               
                
            It is quite apparent that those who knew William Herndon, personally, placed little confidence in his
                    ability to speak with any degree of authority on the more intimate characteristics of Abraham
                    Lincoln. This would largely discredit the personal estimates which he made available to Lamon and
                    which were so exaggerated by Black.
            Anyone who has read the rambling letters of William Herndon and the equally disorganized arrangement
                    of the subject matter in his early lectures will immediately come to the conclusion that the critics
                    who doubted Herndon's ability to write a biography of Lincoln were correct. Since he first
                    announced his biographical intentions to the public in 1865, a dozen years had passed when he
                    received a letter from an eighteen-year-old boy named Jesse Weik, who was a student in John Clark
                    Ridpath's history class at DePauw University in Indiana. Although interested in Lincoln, it
                    cannot be said Weik was familiar with Lincoln's writings and public speeches, as there was
                    not available to him at such an early date any extensive compilation of Lincoln's works.
                    The fact that he began collaborating with Herndon on the contemplated book when he was little more
                    than a youth without any former literary experience is another factor that must be considered when
                    placing a valuation on the Herndon volumes,28 as it is a well-established fact
                    that Weik, and not Herndon, was the writer of the text. Much of the book was written by Weik in a
                    room above a grocery store in 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana, and the larger part of his source material came in long letters from Herndon,
                    who stated twenty-three years after Abraham Lincoln was dead, "I have in my memory a
                    thousand unwritten facts about our good man, Abe, that were told me by good and truthful
                        people."29 Herndon wrote down for Weik many of these stories which
                    had slumbered in 
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 328-329.
                  
                     28 William H. Herndon and Jesse W. Weik, Herndon's Lincoln, The True Story of a Great Life, Etiam in minimis. The
                                History and Personal Recollections of Abraham Lincoln (3 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1889).
                  
                     29 Hertz, The Hidden Lincoln, 228.
               
                     his memory for nearly a quarter of a century, and they formed
                    the bulk of the Herndon source material and the nucleus for some of the myths which we now have to
                    combat.
            When the book was nearly ready for distribution the 
                        New York
                    
                    Sun came out with this statement: 
                        We learn from the 
                                Springfield
                            
                            News that Mr. William H. Herndon, the friend and law partner of Mr.
                            Lincoln is about to publish another and very peculiar book respecting that illustrious man.
                            … It is hard, indeed, to imagine the Martyr President exhibited with less
                            draperies than he was on Mr. Lamon's pedestal, but Mr. Herndon thinks it can be
                            done and that his sacred duty is to do it.30
                  
                    
                
            The reaction to the book can be summed up in a general way by saying that political-minded editors
                    adverse to Lincoln, Lincoln's early political rivals, and those ambitious to defame
                    Lincoln, approved of the publication. Most of Lincoln's legal and political associates, his
                    friends and especially members of the Lincoln family were dumbfounded at Herndon's
                    conclusions.
            On September 16, 1889, the 
                  
                            Illinois
                         State Journal, at 
                        Springfield
                    , referred to a certain statement about the Herndon book "appearing in such a
                    conservative paper as the 
                        Chicago
                     Evening Journal," and then proceeded to copy the item in full. The opening
                    statement in the article indicates its critical approach. Referring to the Herndon biography, it
                    states: 
                        It is an infamous book. It is one of the most infamous books ever written and printed in the
                            garb of a historical work relating to a great man. It vilely distorts the image of an ideal
                            statesman, patriot and martyr. It clothes him in vulgarity and grossness. Its indecencies
                            are spread like a curtain to hide the colossal proportions and the splendid purity of his
                            character. …
                    
                
            The concluding sentence summarizes the Herndon contribution in these words: 
                        In all its parts and aspects, if we are a judge and we think we are, of the proprities of
                            literature and of human life, we declare that the book is so bad it could hardly be
                                worse.31
                  
                    
                
            Almost as vindictive as the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Evening Journal item was a comment in the 
                        St. Paul
                    
                    News. It stated: 
                  
                     30
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Sun. This undated clipping is in the Weik Scrap Book, Lincoln National
                            Life Foundation Library, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     31
                            
                                Springfield
                            , 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 State Journal, September 16, 1889.
               
                    
                    
                        Mr. Herndon has one trait that is ever obnoxious in the writers of books—personal
                            vanity, and he lacks another that always challenges the admiration and respect of those who
                            read books, common sense. … The "holier-than-thou" air of the
                            writer is repulsive to the last degree, and a shudder creeps over the reader to realize that
                            a "friend" is thus harshly revealing glimpses of a life that came to his
                            knowledge, as the friend and law partner of twenty years, and cooly makes merchandise of the
                            distorted tale. …
                        The hideous conceit of this avaricious biographer can bring no harm to the great Emancipator.
                            It is only the author that will suffer and the generation who knew and loved the greatest
                            son of the republic, and those that follow, will contemn the viper that has warmed upon his
                                hearthstone.32
                  
                    
                
            The 
                        St. Louis
                    
                    Republic, however, commented, "He (Herndon) is an authority on Lincoln.
                    He will rank as the highest, and the work of all biographers will be corrected by his."33
            
            Another review which deals in motives may be noted.
            
                    Herndon has unveiled the confidence which came to him in the dual relationship of a friend and
                        partner and there is a suspicion that this has not been done so much to show the weaknesses of
                        Lincoln as to demonstrate the closeness of his own relation to Lincoln. Throughout, there is
                        this strong and unpalatable flavor of "Herndonism" if it may be so called. He
                        draws aside the veil covering Lincoln's domestic life and love making of his callow
                        days, with the eagerness of a vandal seeking to destroy the temple which he professes to be
                            erecting.34
               
                
            Getting a little closer to Lincoln's old haunts we find this observation in the 
                        Decatur
                    
                    Republican.
            
            
                    Billy Herndon is now an old man, probably not altogether responsible for his acts, and when his
                        life and habits are taken into consideration, it is hardly to be wondered at that he should give
                        to the world a salacious bit of reading, such as he and creatures of his class most delight in.
                        … He will be remembered only as the one time law partner of his more famous associate
                        who wrote a filthy book about a great subject, in order to direct attention from his life-long
                        failure to make even a faint mark on the page of history."35
               
                
            In considering the comments on the Herndon lectures and the Lamon book, we have had occasion to
                    review some of 
                  
                     32
                            
                        St. Paul, Minnesota
                     , News, 1889. The clipping is in the
                            Weik Scrap Book, Lincoln National Life Foundation Library, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     33
                            
                        St. Louis, Missouri
                     , Republic, 1889. The clipping is in
                            the Weik Scrap Book, Lincoln National Life Foundation Library, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     34
                            Press, July 27, 1888. The clipping is in the Weik Scrap Rook, Lincoln
                            National Life Foundation Library, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     35
                            
                        Decatur, Illinois
                     , Republican, September 15, 1889.
               
                     the reactions of 
                        Springfield
                     people to those two interpretations of Herndon's source material. Now what did 
                        Springfield
                     think about this third publishing venture? It is not likely that there lived in 
                        Springfield
                     at the time the Herndon-Weik volumes appeared, a more prominent figure than John Milton
                    Hay. On January 26, 1892, he wrote a letter to Honorable Thomas Vennum from which the following
                    excerpts are made: 
                  
                     
                        Your letter of the 24th, inst. in regard to that queer production
                                    "Herndon's Life of Lincoln" came duly to hand and but for
                                    a spell of the grip would have answered sooner.
                        Herndon was a peculiar kind of "crank" and his work is regarded
                                    here as deserving of but little credit by those who were acquainted with both
                                    Lincoln and Herndon. Although professing to have been gotten up with friendly
                                    intentions towards Lincoln, such professed good intentions are not credited. Herndon
                                    had a sort of loose connection with Lincoln as a partner in local business of this
                                    county, and after Lincoln's election, as the understanding is here, he went
                                    to 
                                        Washington
                                     as an applicant for some place and was disappointed—He
                                    returned home soured and sore headed and thereafter active with the Democrats.
                        Immediately upon Lincoln's death, he proclaimed himself as the only living
                                    man who knew all about Lincoln, and assumed that he had been Lincoln's
                                    conscience keeper, and that he was the man who had made him what he was, and
                                    particularly that Lincoln had confided to him, secrets known to nobody else.
                        It is not believed that any such confidence had existed—Much of the
                                    narrative contained in the Book is known to be erroneous here, and he states the
                                    matter as though he was personally acquainted with the facts, it has impaired
                                    credence in whatever he has stated as being only within his own knowledge.
                        The story of Lincoln having told Herndon that his Mother was a bastard is wholly
                                    discredited by everybody who knew Lincoln, as well as much of other matter in the
                                    Book alleged to have been derived from conversations with Lincoln.
                        I think I have fairly given the criticism made here by those best acquainted with
                                    both Lincoln and Herndon.
                        I was much gratified to hear from you and I have a pleasant recollection of our old
                                    acquaintance.
                        
                                    Your truly,
                                    M. Hay (signed)36
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            The fact that "everybody" in 
                        Springfield
                     who knew Lincoln discredited the buggy ride story during which Herndon claimed Lincoln
                    said his mother was an illegitimate, is interesting, 
                  
                     36 Copy of the Hay letter is in the Fish Correspondence file, Lincoln
                            National Life Foundation Library, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
               
                     indeed, in the light of the positive position taken now by
                    nearly every biographer writing about the Hanks family.
            An observation with respect to Herndon's youth may help to answer the question why Lincoln
                    happened to become associated with Herndon as a law partner one hundred years ago. Harvey L. Ross,
                    an early roommate of Herndon's, prepared for the 
                        Lewiston
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , Democrat, in 1896, a series of reminiscences which ran through
                    seventeen issues. He stated: 
                        There are but few persons now living who knew Mr. Herndon as well as I did in the days of his
                            youth. He was a son of Archer G. Herndon, one of the early settlers of 
                                Springfield
                            , who built and kept one of the first hotels ever erected in that
                            city—the Herndon House. Archer G. Herndon was a prominent politician and had been
                            elected state senator besides holding several other offices at different times. He was a
                            Whig and a warm personal friend of Mr. Lincoln. … While I was carrying the mail I
                            stopped two nights each week at the Herndon House and there is where I became acquainted
                            with William Herndon. We were about the same age he being fourteen years old while I was
                            fifteen.
                    
                
            Ross stated that William Herndon was 
                        about 24 years old when he went in with Mr. Lincoln who was nine years his senior. It was
                            thought a little strange at that time that Mr. Lincoln would take into partnership so young
                            and inexperienced a lawyer as Bill Herndon. But he had his reasons and I think I can come
                            very near guessing some of them. Bill's father had been a friend to Lincoln for a
                            great many years and was a very influential man in Sangamon County. He had always helped
                            Lincoln in every way and it was in payment for this kindness that Lincoln took his son in
                            his office.37
                  
                    
                
            It is well known that the Herndon-Weik book met with such disfavor that it was finally agreed to
                    leave out some of the most objectional stories in the subsequent two-volume edition.
            The letters Herndon had written to Weik at 
                        Greencastle
                     which had been the most fruitful source of the Herndon-Weik publication, and the
                    Herndon papers acquired by Lamon, which later were purchased by the 
                        Huntington
                     Library, at 
                  San Marino, California
               , were allowed to rest undisturbed for nearly forty
                    years, when Weik worked over his material again. 
                  
                     37
                            
                                Lewiston
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            , Democrat, 1896. The clipping is in the Weik Scrap Book,
                            Lincoln National Life Foundation Library, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
               
                     He brought out a book called The Real
                    Lincoln, with the preface signed at 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana, on August 10, 1921.38
            
            This new interpretation of the Herndon correspondence and other papers including some original
                    researches by Weik, himself, gave particular emphasis to many of the old Herndon myths which were
                    again revived and nourished. There was no attempt made to write a biography, but the text consisted
                    mainly of reminiscences and extended accounts of the debatable episodes in the three-volume work.
                    Brought to light again, however, the Herndon papers in both the 
                        Huntington
                     Library and at 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana, were to become the center of historical discussion.
            In the early twenties when Albert J. Beveridge, author of the famous work on John Marshall, decided
                    to make an epochal study of Lincoln, the Herndon papers received attention for the first time from a
                    nationally known biographer. In the preface of his book Beveridge makes the statement that from Weik
                    came "The largest and most important aid."39 Possibly
                    Beveridge might have had access to the Lincoln papers now impounded in the Library of Congress if
                    Robert Lincoln had not learned that he was placing much stress on the Herndon manuscripts, which
                    Robert had a just reason to deplore. There can be no question that the Herndon traditions greatly
                    influenced the Beveridge volumes, and some of the myths which had fallen into disrepute were given a
                    new lease of life by the conclusions of the distinguished author.
            It is surprising how the Herndon papers took on a new importance under the professional handling of a
                    noted historian. The plan Beveridge had in mind, which he very clearly and definitely explained to
                    the present writer then living in 
                        Kentucky
                    , called for an evolutionary process of bringing his Lincoln to a great climax. His plan
                    was not so different from Herndon's idea of starting Lincoln in a "stagnant putrid
                    pool," and it was in this same pool where Beveridge, as he worked over the Herndon papers,
                    found the future emancipator. It is to be regretted that Beveridge did not live long enough to get
                    Lincoln entirely out of the 
                  
                     38 Jesse W. Weik, The Real Lincoln (
                                Boston
                            , 1922).
                  
                     39 Albert J. Beveridge, Abraham Lincoln, 1809-1858
                            (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1928), I, vii.
               
                     pool, as he intended to do in contemplated volumes that were
                    never finished.
            Beveridge's contributions as a whole were widely acclaimed, although more emphasis was
                    placed on the value of the chapters developing the professional and political years of Lincoln, than
                    those treating his childhood and youth.
            Excerpts from some of the most important reviews which deal with the mythical data are of interest in
                    this discussion. Rupert Hughes in the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune expressed the opinion that Beveridge "deals ruthlessly with
                    popular myths," yet he finds 
                        that Lincoln's love affair with Ann Rutledge was carried on while she was really
                            engaged to another man; that he did not acquit a client by the use of the wrong almanac;
                            that he was not greatly excited over slavery till well on in life; that he appeared as
                            attorney for a slave holder trying to drag a chattel back across the border; that he was a
                            machine politician who was more ambitious than conscientious; that he used anonymous letters
                            lavishly in his campaigns and when challenged to a duel by a man he defamed, thus, not only
                            broke the law by accepting the challenge, but violated all codes by insisting on a weapon
                            that left his brave and honorable opponent at a fatal disadvantage.
                        Beveridge shows that none of Lincoln's family voted for or sided with him, and that
                            he did not like his own father. He is pictured as slipshod and slovenly and shiftless, yet
                            shifty in principles to such an appalling degree that some of his debts are still unpaid.
                            There was so much dirt in one corner of his office that weeds grew up in it. He presents
                            Mrs. Lincoln as a half mad savage, a she wolf and a miser.40
                  
                    
                
            Allan Nevins also commented in the Bookman.
            
            
                    The Book accomplishes two great objects. It proves that, overwhelming as is the literature upon
                        Lincoln, research can still find new facts, some of them of primary importance. It demonstrates
                        also that when candidly exhibited, the facts new and old demolish the Lincoln legend as many
                        have suspected it could be demolished. … In these 1300 pages, heavy with footnotes,
                        we have the final verdict upon such moot questions as the character of Nancy Hanks
                        ("uncommonly intelligent, inordinately kind and affectionate"),
                        Lincoln's courtship of Ann Rutledge (a singularly cool affair on both sides), his
                        supposed attacks of "insanity" (merely deep melancholia springing from extreme
                        sensitiveness or tender-mindedness), the character of Mary Todd Lincoln (Mr. Beveridge endorses
                        Herndon's term "wildcat").41
               
                
            
               
                  40
                        
                            Chicago
                        
                        Tribune, December 8, 1928.
               
                  41 Allan Nevins, book review of Abraham Lincoln,
                        1809-1858, by Albert J. Beveridge, in the Bookman (76 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1895-1933), December, 1928.
            
            
            Ellis Paxson Oberholtzer in the Saturday Review of Literature comments: 
                        In the Herndon store there remained matter which the collectors had not had the skill, or
                            inclination, to use in their own writings and Senator Beveridge thought it worthy of his
                            examination, though much of it emanated from men and women of the most ignorant classes, who
                            really possessed little, and often only pretended to, knowledge of the man of whom they
                            spoke. Is it not rather like "blurb," when this material is called
                            "the most valuable Lincolniana in existence?"
                        We learn, for example, that Lincoln's mother was a natural child of unknown
                            paternity; that he had many relations born out of wedlock (one of Beveridge's
                            sources names six in one family); that his father was an old loafer, unbelievably worthless;
                            that the family lived in poverty and squalor unheard of in the annals of all the men who
                            ever gave us accounts of themselves in the Congressional Directory; that the boy's
                            associates were ruffians and vagabonds. …42
                  
                    
                
            W. E. Barton, in the Christian Science Monitor admits that 
                        Senator Beveridge has made effective use of the papers which Mr. Weik placed unreservedly at
                            his disposal. The reviewer anticipates that a majority of critics will say that this is
                            Beveridge's most important contribution to his theme; some of the advance notices
                            of the editors or publishers appear to imply this. That could hardly be possible. Beveridge
                            has devoured the Herndon manuscripts down to the very stubble; in places it might have been
                            as well had he not bitten so close to the turf. That he should have added important data to
                            our knowledge of the first 22 years of Lincoln's life was next to impossible. But
                            he has done remarkably well.43
                  
                    
                
            It took no less a historical celebrity than the biographer of John Marshall to endorse the stamp of
                    authenticity on the Herndon papers. Since this blanket approval, the documents, so despised and
                    rejected by Lincoln's own friends and contemporaries, have now attained a respectability
                    and importance second only to the official Lincoln papers now housed in the Library of Congress.
            The last person to use the Herndon papers was Emanuel Hertz, and his compilation of documents known
                    as The Hidden Lincoln now is available to all who may wish to have copies of the
                    many letters that passed between Herndon 
                  
                     42 Ellis P. Oberholtzer, book review of Abraham Lincoln,
                                1809-1858, by Albert J. Beveridge, in the Saturday Review of
                                Literature (
                                New York
                            , 1924-), V (1928-1929), 268.
                  
                     43 William E. Barton, book review of Abraham Lincoln,
                                1809-1858, by Albert J. Beveridge, in 
                                Boston
                            , Christian Science Monitor, September 26, 1928.
               
                     and his correspondents. There seems to have been some very
                    direct collaboration between the men who used the Herndon papers, Lamon with Herndon, Herndon with
                    Weik, Weik with Beveridge, and Beveridge with Hertz. The latter prepared a monograph on the Herndon
                        papers.44 In this pamphlet there is an interesting paragraph on page four,
                    which, from the context, would appear to be the original composition of Hertz, but in reality it was
                    copied from the 
                        New York
                    
                    World in its announcement of Herndon's death in 
                        Springfield
                     in 1891. This is the lifted paragraph which was the conclusion of a tribute to
                    Herndon's industry in gathering data about Lincoln. 
                        To those who have followed the several Herndon narratives it is plain that Mr. Herndon was
                            not, in his relations to Mr. Lincoln, the subordinate character he leaves us to suppose he
                            was. He contributed decidedly to form the mind of Lincoln and to mold his career. But for
                            Herndon, the Lincoln of 1860-65 would not have emerged from the dingy little law office at 
                                Springfield
                            , precisely what he was, nor would his history up to that period ever have been
                            precisely told.45
                  
                    The fact that Hertz used this paragraph as his own implies, at least, that he endorsed it.
            The compilation of Lincoln's writings, published by Hertz in The Hidden
                    Lincoln, has allowed us to make an accurate check on just what Herndon did have to say about
                    Lincoln, and it also allows us to observe something of the development of his Lincoln mythology.
                    Herndon had been gathering information about Lincoln but three years, as he stated when he wrote to
                    Ward H. Lamon on February 26, 1869, that his records about Lincoln were "the most perfect
                    on record."46 He did make one probable exception to this
                    statement—Boswell's records of Johnson.47 Fame must have
                    seemed to Herndon an easy taskmaster if in three years the collecting of a few manuscripts, while
                    still attending to his law practice, had allowed him to stand by the side of the immortal Boswell.
                    Herndon told Lamon that only by the use of his records could the true life of Lincoln be written,
                    and then concluded that there was fame and fortune in the records when put in the form of a
                    biography.
            
               
                  44 Emanuel Hertz, The Herndon-Weik Collection of Original
                            Lincoln Manuscripts, Documents, and Other Papers (
                            New York
                        , 1934).
               
                  45
                        
                            New York
                        
                        World, March 23, 1891.
               
                  46 Hertz, The Hidden Lincoln, 57.
               
                  47
                        Ibid., 60.
            
            
            Ten years elapsed between the sale of the manuscripts to Lamon and Herndon's second attempt
                    to accumulate information about Lincoln. During this interval only one letter written by Herndon
                    appears in the Hertz volume. When this second installment of information began to accumulate Herndon
                    was seventy years of age and Lincoln had been dead twenty years. On December 1, 1888, Herndon
                    advised Weik that he had in his memory a thousand unwritten facts about Lincoln,48 and he drew upon this inexhaustible mass of reminiscences and jotted down what he called
                    factual evidences.
            It was a changed Lincoln, as might be expected after so long an interval, that emerged from his
                    memory. In his early discussions, he said that Lincoln was "true to friends,
                    never-deserting them till they deserted virtue, veracity, and integrity,"49 but in his later deductions, Lincoln becomes "a remorseless trimmer with men. They
                    were his tools and when they were used up, he threw them aside as old iron and took up new
                        tools."50 In the old installment of notes, Herndon said he
                    "never knew him [Lincoln] to do a mean thing,"51 but he wrote
                    to Weik in 1886 that "when he [Lincoln] used a man and sucked all the uses [sic] out of him, he would throw away the thing as an old orange
                        peeling."52
            
            But why continue with these contrasts, which are innumerable, between Herndon's Lincoln of
                    1869, and his Lincoln of 1889. Such a procedure would cause one to challenge, without good
                    authority, almost all of the accepted, noble characteristics of our best-loved American.
            It will be worthwhile, however, to observe briefly, just how much of the source material in the
                    Herndon manuscripts now published in The Hidden Lincoln would be accepted today as
                    authentic by any well-trained, discerning historian. The Hidden Lincoln is in two
                    parts with a lengthy introduction. Part one is "Letters from Herndon." Part two,
                    entitled "Evidences," has three divisions, "Letters to Herndon,"
                    "Statements collected by Herndon," and "Herndon's Notes and
                    Monographs."
            
               
                  48
                        Ibid., 228.
               
                  49
                        Ibid., 83.
               
                  50
                        Ibid., 208.
               
                  51
                        Ibid., 82.
               
                  52
                        Ibid., 135.
            
            
            Only fifty-five of the 233 pages of "Letters to Herndon" were written before 1874,
                    the bulk of the remainder between 1885 and 1891, twenty years and more after Lincoln was dead. Only
                    twenty-eight of the above-mentioned fifty-five pages of letters were written within three years
                    after Lincoln's death, and even in these few pages many of the incidents discussed occurred
                    in 
                        Kentucky
                     sixty years before they were recorded.
            Most of the correspondence in "Letters to Herndon," written shortly after
                    Lincoln's death, covering seventy-three pages, was from people who were reciting incidents
                    which happened in Indiana, at least thirty-five years before, or in 
                        New Salem
                    , twenty-eight years before Lincoln was assassinated. The forty-eight pages of
                    "Statements Collected," on his trip to Indiana, and a few others in 
                        Illinois
                     were also in most instances memories of people who were trying to recall events which
                    happened a quarter of a century before. "Herndon's Notes and Monographs,"
                    which cover forty-nine pages, were apparently written as late as 1887, twenty-two years after
                    Lincoln was dead.
            No summary of the contents of the volume is needed to reveal the general character of the evidence
                    therein displayed. It is not strange that the trend of Lincoln biography emerging from such an
                    unreliable original source is still presenting a confused mass of contradictions. When one observes
                    such hostile interpreters as Black and Bledsoe, utilizing directly or indirectly these sources on
                    the very threshold of the Lincoln literary structure, now enlarged to such enormous proportions, he
                    is not surprised at the mythical content of our current Lincolniana.
            The good and noble acts of Abraham Lincoln may be authenticated by a voluminous mass of his own
                    personal writings and addresses—greater in bulk than the complete works of Shakespeare.
                    Supplementing this dependable information there is available the reports of hundreds of interviews
                    and observations relating to Abraham Lincoln which were written down while he lived. It is almost
                    unbelievable that a mass of folklore and tradition of such unreliable content as the Herndon papers
                    should become our primary source bearing on the private life of America's outstanding
                    historical character.
         
         
         
            The Settlement of 
                        Dubois County
                    
            
            ELFRIEDA LANG
            
            The northern part of 
                        Dubois County
                     became the scene of its first settlements in 1801. While living in 
                        Kentucky
                    , the McDonald family of 
                        Scotland
                    , received the urge to move on, and for their new abode chose a tract of land
                    approximately two miles south of the present town of Portersville. Since the Indians were a
                    disturbing factor, a fort was built where the family might go for protection at the slightest
                    indication of danger. That they feared the Indians was also demonstrated by the fact that one member
                    of the family would walk around the land with a long rifle while the other members cleared the land.
                    It was not unusual to see a man plowing in the field accompanied by a son or daughter carrying a
                    rifle which might be put to use in case the opportunity presented itself.1
            
            The next pioneers were a colony of Scotch-Irish who settled in the northwestern part of the county.
                    Later, this district was referred to as the Irish Settlement.2 Shortly, after
                    Indiana was admitted as a state in 1816, John Stewart, one of the early pioneers from 
                        Ireland
                    , entered land about four miles south of Fort McDonald.3 When the
                    settlers of this region in 1842 laid out the town and wanted to call it American City, the post
                    office department objected and it was named 
                        Ireland
                     in honor of the nativity of John Stewart.4
            
            Only a few foreigners can be mentioned among the first settlers. Of all the pioneers, however, the
                    greatest contribution was made by those from the Southern states. 
                        Kentucky
                    , the Carolinas, 
                        Virginia
                    , and 
                        Tennessee
                     are among the most outstanding. Many of the settlers were very poor. They sought homes
                    where they might improve their conditions.5 Some, however, had been slaveholders
                    and brought their slaves to 
                        Dubois County
                    .6 Whether poor or in the possession of some material means the West
                    seemed to hold forth an 
                  
                     1 George R. Wilson, History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                      (
                                Jasper
                            , Indiana, 1910), 26, 30, 351.
                  
                     2 Albert Kleber, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Parish (St. Meinrad, Indiana, 1937), 6.
                  
                     3 Tract Book, 
                                Dubois County
                            , Indiana, 170.
                  
                     4 Wilson, History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                     , 351.
                  
                            5
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 113.
               
                     inviting hand, and as Frederick J. Turner has so ably expressed
                    it: "The very fact of the wilderness appealed to men as a fair, blank page on which to
                    write a new chapter in the story of man's struggle for a higher type of
                        society."7
            
            A large number of early settlers who migrated north of the 
                        Ohio
                     did so because of slavery. Some were too proud to work among the slaves and too poor to
                    own a plantation. The inflow of the "poor white" was made up in part of restless
                    hunters and thriftless settlers who moved along without any definite ambitions, and in part of other
                    classes who migrated to a new region with the hope that they might improve their conditions.9
            
            That emigration made its imprint on the South can be seen by newspaper accounts. A traveler was
                    impressed by the large number of emigrants along the road. It appeared as if North and 
                        South Carolina
                     were pouring forth their population in swarms. At night the campfires of the emigrants
                    made the woods blaze in all directions. The lands were exhausted and the planters sought more
                    fertile land. A reduction in wages of twenty-five per cent also worked a hardship on many and
                    deprived them of what little comforts they had.10 As early as 1821 the
                    free-laboring classes refused to settle in places where labor was considered degrading. In areas
                    where there was a large increase of slaves, there was also a comparative decrease of the free white
                        population.11 Each class had an ax to grind, and, apparently, to some of
                    these disheartened and oppressed Southerners 
                        Dubois County
                     served as a desirable place to make their future home.
            Captain Toussiant Dubois, a Frenchman, of 
                        Vincennes
                    ,12 was the first man to purchase land in 
                        Dubois County
                     on May 7, 1807.13 The county was organized on December 20, 
                  
                     7 Frederick J. Turner, "Contributions of the West to American
                            Democracy," Atlantic Monthly (
                                Boston
                            , 1857-), XCI (1903), 92.
                  
                     8 Logan Esarey, "Internal Improvements in Early
                            Indiana," Indiana Historical Society, Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1897-), V (1915), 51.
                  
                     9 Frederick J. Turner, "Dominant Forces in Western
                            Life," Atlantic Monthly, LXXIX (1897), 434.
                  
                     10
                            
                        Montgomery, Alabama
                     , 
                        
                                    Portland
                                 Evening Advertiser, April 12, 1833, quoted in Niles' Weekly Register (
                        Baltimore, Maryland
                     ,
                            1811-1837), XLIV (June 1, 1833), 222.
                  
                     11
                            Niles' Weekly Register, XXI (October 27, 1821), 132.
                  
                     12 Wilson, History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                     , 397.
                  
                     13 Tract Book, 
                                Dubois County
                            , Indiana, 161.
               
                     1817,14 and named in honor of Captain
                    Dubois for his untiring services in the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign.15
            
            From the landholdings it is obvious that quite a few migrated to 
                        Dubois County
                     whose financial status was more than moderate. Four of the landholders owned a section,
                    four three-quarters of a section, five a half section, seventy-one a quarter section, and
                    fifty-three or thirty-one per cent owned less than a quarter of a section.
            
               LAND ENTRIES OF DUBOIS COUNTY, 1807-183016
               
               
                  Year
                  Acres
                  Year
                  Acres
               
               
                  1807
                  800
                  1821
                  80
               
               
                  1810
                  572
                  1822
                  352.80
               
               
                  1812
                  160
                  1823
                  80
               
               
                  1814
                  2,252.62
                  1824
                  404
               
               
                  1815
                  800
                  1825
                  395.80
               
               
                  1816
                  3,308.20
                  1826
                  240
               
               
                  1817
                  5,005.66
                  1828
                  246
               
               
                  1818
                  5,098.05
                  1829
                  320
               
               
                  1819
                  560
                  1830
                  400
               
               
                  1820
                  520
                   
                   
               
               
                   
                   
                  Total
                  21,595.13
               
            
            During the first nine months of 1814 only 480 acres had been sold, but during the last three months
                    over seventeen hundred acres were sold.17 An illuminating account of Indiana in
                    August, 1814, may in part have been responsible for the land entries for the remainder of that year.
            
                    
                  Indiana territory is also a great tract of rich land, watered by fine streams,
                        especially the 
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                         and 
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                         …. It is singularly happy in having but a very few stoves, the bane of industry
                        and curse of improvement …. The spirit of the people is opposed to their
                        introduction; and, as we desire the improvement of delightful Indiana, we hope
                        that good spirit may continue as long as the 
                            
                                Mississippi
                            
                         rolls water to the sea!18
               
                
            The table also seems to indicate that the Panic of 1819 may have interferred with the sale of land in 
                        Dubois County
                    . Between 1820 and 1830 an Indiana farm of eighty acres, with two horses, two or three
                    cows, a few hogs, and farming implements was evaluated at approximately four hundred dollars.19 This appeared like a mountain to the man who had 
                  
                     14
                            Indiana Special Acts, 1817-1818, 2nd Regular Session, VII.
                  
                     15 Wilson, History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                     , 403.
                  
                     16 Tract Book, 
                                Dubois County
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     17. Ibid., 155-156, 238.
                  
                     18
                            Niles' Weekly Register, VI (August 6, 1814), 394.
                  
                     19 Frederick J. Turner, Rise of the New West
                            (American Nation Series, 28 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1904-1925, edited by Albert B. Hart), XIV (1906), 87; Emigrant's and Traveller's Guide Through the Valley of the 
                                    Mississippi
                                
                      (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1834), 176.
               
                     little or no reserve, and it may have had discouraging effects
                    on the amount of land sold.
            A further analysis of the landholdings as recorded in the Tract Book indicates that of the 21,595.13
                    acres sold before January 1, 1831, the largest number of entries were for land located in the
                    northwestern part of the county. The land-holdings were distributed among the townships of the
                    county as follows: Harbison 9,769.73 acres, Bainbridge 7,483.46 acres, Patoka 2,021.94 acres, 
                        Columbia
                     1,440 acres, and Hall 880 acres.
            The map indicating the land sold in 
                        Dubois County
                     from 
                  MAP OF DUBOIS COUNTY
                  showing all land purchased up to December 31, 1830 according to Tract Book of 
                                Dubois County
                            .
               
                     1807 to 1830 also serves to show the areas first settled. The
                    northern part of the county, no doubt, was more accessible because the "Buffalo
                    Trace" and two streams, the East Fork of the White River and the
                    Patoka River, were in close proximity to the settlements.
            The German element began to make its entrance onto the soil of 
                        Dubois County
                     in 1836, choosing the southern half of the county for its new home. In that year twelve
                    Catholic families from 
                        Baden
                    , 
                        Germany
                    , settled near the present town of 
                        Jasper
                    .20 From the census records it is obvious that 
                        Dubois County
                     was not merely a new home, but a region of opportunity for the Germans. That they made
                    their mark was indicated by the fact that at the December term, 1844, of the county court a new
                    township was formed by taking a part of Hall and Patoka townships; the new township was to be called
                        Ferdinand,21 which was becoming a German community.
            The largest contribution between 1836 and 1850 of any foreign group to the population of 
                        Dubois County
                     was made by the Germans.
            
               FOREIGN-BORN POPULATION ACCORDING TO TOWNSHIPS, 185022 By number, and
                        percentage of total population.
               
                   
                  Bain-bridge
                  Columia
                  Ferdiand
                  Hall
                  Harbison
                  Patoka
               
               
                  Country
                  No.
                  %
                  No.
                  %
                  No.
                  %
                  No.
                  %
                  No
                  %
                  No
                  %
               
               
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  420
                  28.17
                  80
                  10.64
                  275
                  50.37
                  223
                  21.62
                  198
                  21.18
                  407
                  26.01
               
               
                  Other Countries
                  11
                  74
                   
                   
                  6
                  1.10
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                  .13
               
               
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  
                            
                                France
                            
                        
                  4
                   
                   
                   
                  3
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                  2
                   
                   
                   
                  3
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  
                            
                                Switzerland
                            
                        
                  5
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Total
                  431
                  28.91
                  80
                  10.64
                  281
                  51.47
                  223
                  21.62
                  198
                  21.18
                  409
                  26.14
               
            
            
               
                  20 John T. Melchoir, Leaves from the Early History of Saint
                        Joseph's Parish, I, 3, unpublished manuscript of 2 volumes.
               
                  21 Commissioners Record, A, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana, 165-166.
               
                  22 Original Returns of Seventh Census, 1850, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana (microfilm in Indiana University Library, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana).
            
            
            
               GERMAN POPULATION IN DUBOIS COUNTY, 1850
               according to the Original Returns of the Seventh Census.
            
            Three townships had only Germans among the foreign population and the remaining three townships
                    together had less than two per cent who represented other nationalities. In 
                        Ferdinand
                     Township over fifty per cent of the entire population was German, whereas in 
                        Columbia
                     Township, located in the northeastern part of the county, less than eleven per cent of
                    the entire population was German.
            
            
               FOREIGN-BORN POPULATION ACCORDING TO TOWNSHIPS, 186023
               
               
                   
                  Bain-bridge
                  Columia
                  Ferdiand
                  Hall
                  Harbison
                  Patoka
               
               
                  Country
                  No.
                  %
                  No.
                  %
                  No.
                  %
                  No.
                  %
                  No
                  %
                  No
                  %
               
               
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  614
                  28.80
                  155
                  14.34
                  530
                  34.28
                  361
                  21.19
                  256
                  20.12
                  725
                  27.23
               
               
                  Other Countries
                  29
                  1.36
                  1
                  10
                  88
                  5.69
                  9
                  .53
                  22
                  1.73
                  34
                  1.27
               
               
                  
                            
                                Austria
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                   
               
               
                  
                            
                                Belgium
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  2
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  8
                   
                  2
                   
               
               
                  
                            
                                France
                            
                        
                  10
                   
                  1
                   
                  73
                   
                  8
                   
                  11
                   
                  7
                   
               
               
                  Holland
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  4
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                   
               
               
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                  2
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                   
                  1
                   
                  1
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  
                            
                                Scotland
                            
                        
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  
                            
                                Switzerland
                            
                        
                  14
                   
                   
                   
                  9
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                   
                  19
                   
               
               
                  Total
                  643
                  30.16
                  156
                  14.44
                  618
                  39.97
                  370
                  21.72
                  278
                  21.85
                  759
                  28.50
               
            
            The percentage of the foreign population between 1850 and 1860 changed slightly in all the townships.
                    Ferdinand township alone, however, had a ten per cent decrease.
            More foreign countries were represented in 
                        Dubois County
                     in 1860 than in 1850 as is indicated by the tables. Ferdinand Township, however, still
                    had the highest percentage of the foreign-born population. Patoka Township, on the other hand, had
                    more countries represented in its foreign population than any other township in the county.
                    Apparently 
                        Columbia
                     Township was not popular with the foreigners since it still had the smallest percentage
                    of the foreign-born population.
            The distribution of the native-born population is just as interesting as that of the foreign-born
                    population. The pattern followed in 1860 was somewhat similar to that which existed in 1850.
            
               
                  23 Original Returns of Eighth Census, 1860, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            
               NATIVE-BORN POPULATION ACCORDING TO TOWNSHIPS, 1850"4 By number,
                        and percentage of total population.
               
                   
                  Barin-bridge
                  Columia
                  Ferdiand
                  Hall
                  Harbison
                  Patoka
               
               
                  States
                  No.
                  %
                  No.
                  %
                  No.
                  %
                  No.
                  %
                  No
                  %
                  No
                  %
               
               
                  
                            
                                New England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  5
                  .53
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mass.
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                  Vt.
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  4
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Middle Atlantic
                  30
                  2.01
                  4
                  53
                  29
                  5.31
                  11
                  1.06
                  13
                  1.39
                  19
                  1.21
               
               
                  Md.
                  4
                   
                  2
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                   
                  3
                   
                  5
                   
               
               
                  N. J.
                  7
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  N. Y.
                  3
                   
                  2
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                   
                  2
                   
               
               
                  Penn.
                  16
                   
                   
                   
                  28
                   
                  9
                   
                  8
                   
                  12
                   
               
               
                  North Central
                  842
                  56.47
                  482
                  64.10
                  219
                  40.11
                  651
                  63.07
                  574
                  61.39
                  949
                  60.64
               
               
                  Indiana
                  817
                  54.79
                  473
                  62.90
                  189
                  34.61
                  637
                  61.72
                  550
                  58.82
                  897
                  57.32
               
               
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  3
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mo.
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  24
                   
                  9
                   
                  29
                   
                  11
                   
                  24
                   
                  52
               
               
                  Southern
                  188
                  12.61
                  186
                  24.73
                  17
                  3.11
                  17-47
                  14.25
                  145
                  15.51
                  188
                  12.01
               
               
                  Ala.
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  7
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ark.
                   
                   
                   
                  5
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ga.
                  2
                   
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                   
                  8
                   
               
               
                  Ky.
                  96
                   
                  43
                   
                  8
                   
                  100
                   
                  44
                   
                  119
                   
               
               
                  Miss.
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  N. C.
                  34
                   
                  26
                   
                   
                   
                  10
                   
                  10
                   
                  16
                   
               
               
                  S. C.
                  3
                   
                  2
                   
                   
                   
                  3
                   
                  39
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Tenn.
                  12
                   
                  73
                   
                   
                   
                  21
                   
                  16
                   
                  22
                   
               
               
                  
                            
                                Texas
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Va.
                  41
                   
                  32
                   
                  9
                   
                  13
                   
                  28
                   
                  22
                   
               
               
                  Total
                  1060
                  71.09
                  672
                  89.36
                  265
                  48.53
                  809
                  78.38
                  737
                  78.82
                  1156
                  73.86
               
            
            Both tables indicate that the largest contribution of the native-born population exclusive of
                    Hoosiers was made by the Southerners. 
                        Columbia
                     Township which had the smallest percentage of foreign-born had the highest percentage
                    of
            
               
                  24 Original Returns of Seventh Census, 1850, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            
               NATIVE-BORN POPULATION ACCORDING TO TOWNSHIPS, 186025 By number, and
                        percentage of total population.
               
                   
                  Barin-bridge
                  Columia
                  Ferdiand
                  Hall
                  Harbison
                  Patoka
               
               
                  States
                  NO.
                  %
                  NO.
                  %
                  No.
                  %
                  No.
                  %
                  No
                  %
                  No
                  %
               
               
                  
                            
                                New England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  3
                  .28
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Conn.
                   
                   
                  2
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Vt.
                   
                   
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Middle Atlantic
                  28
                  1.31
                  5
                  .46
                  33
                  2.14
                  13
                  .76
                  3
                  .24
                  20
                  .75
               
               
                  Md.
                  1
                   
                  3
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                   
                  6
                   
               
               
                  N. Y.
                  2
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                   
               
               
                  Penn.
                  25
                   
                  2
                   
                  32
                   
                  13
                   
                  2
                   
                  12
                   
               
               
                  North Central
                  1314
                  61.63
                  737
                  68.17
                  875
                  56.60
                  1121
                  65.79
                  940
                  73.90
                  1801
                  67.63
               
               
                  Indiana
                  1252
                  58.72
                  702
                  64.93
                  800
                  51.75
                  1069
                  62.74
                  914
                  71.86
                  1761
                  66.13
               
               
                  Ill.
                  2
                   
                  11
                   
                   
                   
                  7
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                   
               
               
                  Mich.
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mo.
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                   
                   
                   
                  5
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  60
                   
                  22
                   
                  75
                   
                  40
                   
                  26
                   
                  37
                   
               
               
                  Southern
                  147
                  6.90
                  180
                  16.65
                  20
                  1.29
                  200
                  11.75
                  51
                  4.01
                  83
                  3.12
               
               
                  Ala.
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ark.
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Ga.
                  1
                   
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ky.
                  91
                   
                  60
                   
                  16
                   
                  111
                   
                  23
                   
                  55
                   
               
               
                  La.
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                   
               
               
                  Miss.
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  N. C.
                  14
                   
                  21
                   
                   
                   
                  16
                   
                  4
                   
                  11
                   
               
               
                  S. C.
                  8
                   
                  4
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  8
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Tenn.
                  5
                   
                  70
                   
                   
                   
                  50
                   
                  7
                   
                  4
                   
               
               
                  Va.
                  28
                   
                  23
                   
                  4
                   
                  23
                   
                  9
                   
                  9
                   
               
               
                  Total
                  1489
                  69.84
                  925
                  85.56
                  928
                  60.03
                  1334
                  78.30
                  994
                  78.15
                  1904
                  71.50
               
            
            Southerners. Hall the adjoining township in the southeastern part of the county also had few
                    foreign-born and the second largest percentage of Southerners. Ferdinand Township which had the
                    highest percentage of Germans had the smallest percentage of Southerners. Those townships which had
                    a high 
                  
                     25 Original Returns of Eighth Census, 1860, 
                                Dubois County
                            , Indiana.
               
                     percentage of Germans also had a high percentage of immigrants
                    from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    . Natives of Indiana were, of course, more numerous than those of any other state. Next
                    to Indiana among the North Central states, 
                        Ohio
                     made the largest contribution.
            The following table computed on the basis of the 1850 and 1860 Original Census Returns may serve as a
                    summary of the nativity of the population of 
                        Dubois County
                     for the period designated:
            
               NATIVITY OF DUBOIS COUNTY ON A SECTIONAL AND NATIONAL BASIS
               
                   
                  1850
                  1860
               
               
                   
                  No.
                  %
                  No.
                  %
               
               
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  1603
                  25.35
                  2641
                  25.40
               
               
                  Other Foreign Countries
                  19
                  .30
                  183
                  1.76
               
               
                  New England States
                  5
                  .08
                  3
                  .03
               
               
                  Middle Atlantic States
                  106
                  1.68
                  102
                  .98
               
               
                  North Central States
                  3717
                  58.81
                  6788
                  65.28
               
               
                  Southern States
                  871
                  13.78
                  681
                  6.55
               
               
                   
                  6321
                   
                  10398
                   
               
            
            Although there was only a slight variation in some sections of the native-born population, only the
                    North Central states indicate an increase, while the Southern states show the largest decline. In
                    the case of the foreign countries, exclusive of 
                        Germany
                    , there was an increase of approximately one and one-half per cent. From this table it
                    is also apparent that for the 
                        New Englander
                    
                    
                        Dubois County
                     was not an attractive place for settlement. The Southern element was strong, and the
                    Virginian or Kentuckian was likely to "confuse the shrewd, unscrupulous
                    "Yankee" peddler of cheap clocks with the substantial 
                        Connecticut
                     farmer, and to treat the two alike."26 Since this county
                    had a strong German element, the New Englander's ideals were somewhat in conflict with
                    those of the German. The New Englander could not justify beer drinking, violation of "the
                    American Sabbath," and similar social practices.27
            
            One might enumerate a number of reasons why the Germans came to 
                        Dubois County
                    , but the efforts of one 
                  
                     26 Lois K. Mathews, The Expansion of 
                                    New England
                                
                      (
                                Boston
                            , 1909), 254.
                  
                     27 Frederick J. Turner, "German Immigration into the 
                                United States
                            ," 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Record Herald, September 4, 1901.
               
                     man supersede all others. Father Joseph Kundek was the leading
                    spirit for the settlement of Ferdinand. He arrived in 
                        Dubois County
                     on September 28, 1838, as a missionary for the area between the White
                    River and the Ohio River with 
                        Evansville
                     on the west and St. Mary of the Knobs on the east. Most of his flock consisted of
                    German-speaking settlers and since he spoke German his sympathies went out to this group. While
                    traveling around in this district he conceived the idea of establishing two resting stations in the
                    form of Catholic towns along the bumpy and lonely road from 
                        Jasper
                     to 
                        Troy
                    , a distance of thirty-one miles. One of these stations, the town of Fulda, was nine
                    miles north of 
                        Troy
                     and the main station, Ferdinand, was thirteen miles south of 
                        Jasper
                    . In order to encourage Catholics to settle in his parish, he bought up large tracts of
                        land.28 In the region which is known as Ferdinand Township today 1,360 acres
                    were sold to Father Kundek.29 Father Kundek's deed is interesting and
                    reads as follows: 
                        STATE OF INDIANA, DUBOIS COUNTY. SS:
                        Whereas I undersigned viewing the multitude of Germans coming on both from Europe and all the
                            parts of the 
                                United States
                             and settling them in different Townships of the County of Dubois in Indiana, to
                            promote their Spiritual Welfare in building a German Chapel—by opening a School
                            in their maternal Language for their offspring producing so a true temporal and a eternal
                            happiness among them and making good moral Citizens of them to the adopted Land of
                            promise—deliberatly resolved to lay off a new Town under a German name
                            "Ferdinand" out of this reason, that them can pronounce it easily,
                            impression their minds and find it out accordingly. The above named Town Ferdinand is
                            situated in the State of Indiana 
                                Dubois County
                             in Township No. three, South of Range No. four West, in the Section twenty
                            eight lying generally in South West Quarter and some lots in the Section thirtythree of the
                            same Township in North West Quarter and North East Quarter of North West Quarter
                            comprehending in all two hundred and seventy six lots besides Chapel's Reserve. The
                            Town is laid off with five North and South streets through the whole length of Town every
                            one of whom numbers fifty feet in Width, except one the main Street nominated 
                                Ohio
                             Street which is eighty feet wide. The first of them North East is named
                            Caroline Street. The second one 
                                Maryland
                             Street. The third one 
                                Ohio
                             Street. The fourth 
                                Virginia
                             Street. The fifth 
                                Missouri
                             Street—The number of the East and West Streets are Ten, each 
                        
                           28 Albert Kleber, Ferdinand, Indiana,
                                    1840-1940 (St. Meinrad, Indiana, 1940), 11-18; Franz Löher, Geschichte und Zustände der Deutschen in Amerika
                                            (
                              Cincinnati, Ohio
                           , 1847), 334.
                        
                           29 Tract Book, 
                                        Dubois County
                                    , Indiana.
                     
                             of them is forty feet wide except the other one main
                            Street named Indiana being Sixty feet wide.—The names of them are as follows:
                            beginning from the North East Corner—The first one 
                                Washington
                             Street. The second Jefferson Street. The third Jackson Street. The fourth 
                                Vienna
                             Street. The fifth the said Indiana Street. The sixth Schoenbrunn Street. The
                            seventh Europe Street. The eighth Stranger Street. The ninth Lafayett Street. The last
                            Lapold Street, with these remarks: that neither Indiana nor Caroline Street do cross the
                            Chapel's Reserve consisting of the said Streets and of twelve Lots more as it can
                            be seen in the adjoined to it Town-Plat. Each Lot of that new Town contains ninety nine feet
                            square nothing more are less. Being all the Lots Corner Lots there are no lanes no alleys in
                            the Town and no public Square not being a County Town. A parcel of the lot designated by its
                            number two hundred and sixty five is lying in the South East Corner of East half of South
                            East Quarter in Section twenty nine the same Township. The said and above described
                            Chapel's Reserve I do hereby with the present grant and donate with all my Titles
                            and Claims for ever and ever to the Catholic German Congregation belonging to this parish to
                            the purpose of a Catholic Chapel and a Catholic German and American School-House on it wit:
                            for both Languages their native and American being subject always to the Inspection of the
                            Catholic Bishop of 
                                Vincennes
                            —still reserving to me the power of disposing of it as long as I will
                            reside among them— donating and granting a full right to the said Congregation of
                            Catholics to form some alleys or lanes out from their Reserve round about the same Reserve,
                            when necessary.—
                        To the Credit so it is before every Court of the 
                                United States
                             or any Magistrate whatsoever I give my hand and my usul seal.
                        Given in 
                                Jasper
                                Dubois County
                             Indiana the eighteenth day of March Anno Domini one thousand eight hundred and
                            forty.
                        JOSEPH KUNDEK.
                        State of Indiana 
                                Dubois County
                             SS:
                        Before me Bazil B. Edmonston Recorder within and for said county personally come Joseph
                            Kundek the within named grantor and acknowledged the within and foregoing Indenture to be
                            his voluntary act and deed for the purposes therein expressed given under my hand and Seal
                            this 18th day of March 1840.
                        Bazil B. Edmonston
                        Recorded: March 18, 1840.30
                  
                    
            
            On January 8, 1840 the town was surveyed and laid out by John Cassidy.31 In the
                    forest a town was founded, but the wild animals still reigned supreme. How and where to procure
                        
                  
                     30 Deed Record No. 1, 
                                Dubois County
                            , Indiana, 49-50.
                  
                     31 "State of Indiana 
                                Dubois County
                             January 8,th 1840 Began at Post the N W Corner of the S W qurter of section N
                            28 R 4 W T 3 S to Lay off the S W qurter for the Rev,d Joseph Kundek thence S 160 prs
                            [perches, that is rods] to a W oake the old Corner thence E 160 prs to apost and Two W oaks
                            thence N 160 prs to a black oake thence
               
                     settlers was the next big problem. Two plans were pursued to
                    induce settlers to come: first, Father Kundek advertised in Der Wahrheitsfreund,
                    which had a wide circulation among Catholic Germans; secondly, when he visited a community where
                    Catholic Germans resided he would give a glowing account of his mission field.32
            
            The following advertisement appeared in Der Wahrheitsfreund from January 2 until
                    April 23, 1840: 
                        The German Catholic Congregation in 
                        Jasper, Dubois County
                     , Indiana, has laid out a new town
                                [Stadt] with the name "Ferdinand," twelve miles
                            south of 
                                Jasper
                            , on the 
                                Troy
                             Road, about eighteen miles from the 
                                Ohio
                            . In the middle of the town there is [?] a Catholic church; in the neighborhood
                            of the town there are about forty farmers and more than 120 sections of Congress land.
                            … The region is healthful, the soil fertile. A German Catholic priest is
                            appointed for it, as soon as the congregation increases. The lots, which are 100 feet long
                            and wide, will be sold in the town itself on April 22, at $10 each, on condition
                            that $5 must be paid by July 1, and the other $5 by September 1, 1840.
                            Whoever wants to have one or more of them earlier, may see
                        Joseph Friedmann, In 
                        Jasper, Dubois County
                     , Indiana33
                  
                    
                
            Father Kundek kept a catalogue of the lots, 276, which indicated to whom the lot was sold and the sum
                    paid for the same.34 A copy of the original town plat35 has
                    been made indicating the lots that were sold and the sum realized on each lot. The following summary
                    indicates that the lots which sold for twelve dollars were the most popular: 21 lots remained
                    unsold, 3 were donated, for 9 no price was given, 35 sold for $10, 4 for
                    $10.50, 140 for $12, 1 for $13, 31 for $15, 6 for
                    $15.50, 1 for $16, 3 for $16.50, 3 for $17, 4 for
                    $17.50, 6 for $18, 5 for $20, 1 for $21, 1 for
                    $21.50, 1 for $22.50, 1 for $26.50.
            
               W 160 prs to the Beginning Containing one Hundred and Sixty acres Began at apost Twelve feet N
                        of a hickry to Lay off the S W fourth of N W quarter of the same section thence E 80 prs to
                        apost W oake and Dogwood thence S 80 prs to a Dogwood thence W 80 prs to apost thence N 80 prs
                        to the Beginning Containing forty acres. Surveyed by John Cassidy Senr". Kleber, Ferdinand, 22-23.
               
                  32 Kleber, Ferdinand, 28-29. Der
                            Wahrheitsfreund was a Catholic weekly paper published at 
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
                  , from 1836 to 1904. Sixty-seven volumes were published.
               
                  33 Kleber, Ferdinand, 29.
               
                  34. Miscellaneous Record No. 1, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana, 90-97. This catalogue was not recorded until July 17, 1860.
               
                  35 Deed Record No. 1, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana, 648.
            
            
            An indenture for the sale of two lots in 
                        Ferdinand
                     in 1840 shows the type of indenture made for the lots listed in Father
                    Kundek's catalogue.
            
                    This indenture made the 24th day of April in the year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and
                        forty between Joseph Kundek of the County of Dubois and State of Indiana of the first part and
                        Joseph Friedman of the second part witnesseth that the said party of the first part for and in
                        consideration of the sum of twenty-five dollars to him in hand paid by the party of the second
                        part the recept whereof is hereby acknowledged by the said party of the first has granted
                        Barganed and sold and by these presents do grant bargan & sell unto the said party of
                        the second part his heirs and assigns forever all that certain lot or lots or any parcel of
                        ground known and designated on the map or chart of the town of Ferdinand by its numbers
                        fifty-four (54) & fifty-three (53) being (99) feet square each of them.
                    To have and to hold the said lot or lots or any parcel of land with the appurtenances thereunto
                        belonging as in any wise appertaining to the said party of the second part his heirs and assigns
                        forever and Ever and the said party of the first part further covanat and agrees to and with the
                        said party of the second part that the premises hereby barganed and sold now are and forever
                        hereafter shall be and Remain free and clear of and from all right and title of any
                        incumberances whatsoever and that he the said Joseph Kundek as aforesaid and his administrators
                        and Executors shall warant and defend the same agreement against the lawful claims as claims of
                        all and any person claiming through or under them. In testamony Whereof the said party of the
                        first part has hereunt let his hand and seal the day and date first above Written.
                    Joseph Kundek
                    State of Indiana 
                            Dubois County
                         SS
                    Personally appeared before me Bazil B. Edmonston Recorder within and for said county Joseph
                        Kundek the above named grantor and acknowledged the foregoing deed of conveyance to be his
                        volentary act and deed given under my hand and seal the 25th day of April 1840.
                    Bazil B. Edmontson R.D.C36
               
                
            
               
                  36
                        Ibid., 59.
            
            
            
               PLAT OF FERDINAND, INDIANA January 8, 1840
            
            
            Father Kundek visited Europe in 1852 in the hope that he might arouse interest in his missions. He
                    had the town plat of Ferdinand artistically embossed and lithographed in 
                        Vienna
                    , and 540 copies were drawn off to be distributed in influential circles of 
                        Austria
                    .37
            
            A letter written in 1842 indicated that the Germans were settling in 
                        Ferdinand
                    .
            
                    
                  
                     
                        In General the Germans come flying like the snowflakes and buy up the land, and in
                                    two years our congregation may amount to two hundred families. Last spring [1841]
                                    our pastor counted forty families, and now there certainly are fifty. Last spring a
                                    house was built in town. The owner sold it to a man named Schneider, who lives in 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     and who intends to come this winter yet and to bring along store goods.
                                    The second house was blocked up in autumn, its owner [John Beckmann] will move in
                                    next week; he wants to do something similar. And I helped block up two more houses:
                                    the one stands in the southerly, the other in the northerly direction, just
                                    alongside the road and the town; the one to the north even has a well dug.38
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                        Jasper
                     also had quite a German settlement, the first twelve families arriving in 1836. They
                    were followed by twenty-four in 1837, fourteen in 1838, forty-six in 1839, and eleven in 1840.39 In this area Father Kundek also bought land and advertised for Catholic
                        settlers.40 As has already been stated, he came to 
                        Jasper
                     in 1838 as a missionary. He founded the town and parish of Ferdinand in 1840 and the
                    parish and town of Celestine in 1843.41 When these three towns were linked
                    together they constituted a triangle of Catholic Germans.
            The 1850 and 1860 census records indicate that Father Kundek's work was not in vain as a
                    large number of Germans came to 
                        Dubois County
                    , especially Catholic Germans. The success of his work in 
                        Dubois County
                    , no doubt, may be attributed 
                  
                     37 Kleber, Ferdinand, 22-24.
                  
                     38 John Nicolaus Gerhard to Matthew Hassfurther, January 6, 1842, in 
                                Kleber
                            , Ferdinand, 34.
                  
                     39 Melchoir, Leaves from the Early History of Saint Joseph's
                            Parish, I, 3-6.
                  
                     40 Kleber, St. Joseph Parish, 20.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., 36.
               
                    
                    
                  MAP OF DUBOIS COUNTY Indicating triangle of Catholic Germans
                to his determination to protect the Catholic immigrants against the loss of their faith.
            Natives of five German states, 
                        Bavaria
                    , 
                        Hanover
                    , Prussia, Baden, and Hessen, came in large numbers to 
                        Dubois County
                    . Several other states were also represented by settlers in the county. The following
                    table indicates the contribution of each German state to the various townships in 
                        Dubois County
                    .
            Of the Germans who settled in 
                        Dubois County
                     664 came from Bavaria, 529 from 
                        Hanover
                    , 457 from Prussia, 453 from Baden, 261 from Hessen, 60 from Oldenburg, 32 from Saxony,
                    24 from Württemberg, 15 from the Thuringian 
                    
                  GERMAN POPULATION OF DUBOIS COUNTY ACCORDING TO GERMAN STATES42
                  
                  
                     
                     Bainbridge
                     Columbia
                     Ferdinand
                     Hall
                     Harbison
                     Patoka
                  
                  
                     Baden
                     330
                     10
                     43
                     23
                     14
                     33
                  
                  
                     Bavaria
                     103
                     93
                     115
                     51
                     204
                     98
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Hanover
                                
                            
                     34
                     20
                     114
                     56
                     1
                     304
                  
                  
                     Hessen
                     46
                     5
                     22
                     98
                     26
                     64
                  
                  
                     Nassau
                      
                      
                      
                     3
                     1
                     1
                  
                  
                     Oldenburg
                     9
                     2
                     26
                     13
                     1
                     9
                  
                  
                     Prussia
                     24
                     3
                     191
                     28
                     6
                     205
                  
                  
                     Saxony
                     10
                     1
                     5
                     13
                     2
                     1
                  
                  
                     Thuringian States
                     15
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     Waldeck
                      
                      
                     1
                     1
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     Württemberg
                      
                      
                     13
                      
                     1
                     10
                  
                  
                     Illegible
                     43
                     21
                      
                     75
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     Total
                     614
                     155
                     530
                     361
                     256
                     725
                  
                States, 5 from Nassau, and 2 from Waldeck. Because the census returns are not clear, it was
                    impossible to account for 139. Most of the immigrants who came from Baden settled in 
                        Bainbridge
                     Township, Bavarians located in 
                        Harbison
                    , 
                        Ferdinand
                    , and 
                        Bainbridge
                    , the Hanoverians chose Patoka and Ferdinand, while the Prussians made a similar choice.
                    The Germans who settled in 
                        Bainbridge
                     and 
                        Harbison
                     came from southern 
                        Germany
                     while those who settled in 
                        Patoka
                     Township were mostly north Germans. Ferdinand Township had a large percentage of north
                    Germans but also quite a representation of south Germans.
            The north German had no love for the south German because he looked upon the latter as weak, while
                    the South regarded the North as a little barbarous. Such advances as were taken toward popular
                    liberty had their origin in the South.43 Another outstanding distinction between
                    the north German and the south German was in his character. Germans were gemütlich or they were not gemütlich. It would
                        
                  
                     42 Original Returns of Eighth Census, 1860, 
                                Dubois County
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     43 William H. Dawson, What is Wrong With 
                                    Germany
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1915), 195-196.
               
                     be impossible to imagine a north German to be gemütlich, and it would be just as impossible to imagine a south German to be
                    otherwise. In the South there was more humanity and less strenuousness.44 The
                    dialects in 
                        Germany
                     also indicate the region from which an individual comes. The homely Platt dialects of
                    the North were similar to the language of the Netherlands; however, they were beyond the point of
                    comprehension to the Bavarian and Swabian peasants, whose vernacular differed only slightly from
                    those of the Austrian and the Switzer. Many a Westphalian, Hanoverian, or Hamburgian may cling to
                    his stock and stein, while other Germans adopted the Sch pronunciation.45 The passion of northern 
                        Germany
                     for strict rules, prompt and unquestioning obedience, as well as the parade of uniforms
                    has always been in conflict with a great inclination on the part of central and southern 
                        Germany
                     toward democracy and liberty.46
            
            As the people in their homeland showed these characteristics, so we may assume that the earliest
                    settlers to 
                        Dubois County
                     brought with them to an alien land all these traits, both good and bad. Although the
                    following report was made on observation at 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, no doubt, it might hold true for other areas where south and north Germans
                    had settled in the same region. 
                        They [the Germans] want to be paid for everything, even for the little glass of whisky that
                            they give their own brother. … At times they would like to introduce this
                            commercial spirit even into the sanctuary. The priest must give them an account of every
                            cent, else he will no longer get anything- from them. And what on such occasions at times
                            causes quarrel and strife among them is the varying nationality of the multitude thrown
                            together from all regions of 
                                Germany
                            : The Saxon does not like the Suabian, nor the Prussian the Bavarian, and the
                            Westphalian would as lief devour the poor Badenser alive, and so conversely.47
                  
                     Interviews with several inhabitants of Ferdinand indicated how much trouble they had had as
                    children at school in trying to understand the language some of the other children 
                  
                     44 William H. Dawson, The Evolution of Modern 
                                    Germany
                                
                      (
                                London
                            , 1908), 21-22.
                  
                     45 Hamburg-Amerika Linie, Guide Through Europe
                            (Berlin, 1912), 40.
                  
                     46 Samuel van Valkenburg and Ellsworth Huntington, Europe (
                                New York
                            , 1935), 468.
                  
                     47 Kleber, Ferdinand, 87.
               
                     spoke since some spoke low German and others high German.
            Regardless of the time or the place from which these particular groups came, together they gave 
                        Dubois County
                     a large German population which even today is observable as one walks the streets of 
                        Jasper
                    , Ferdinand, or Hunting-burg, or stops in the homes of its people, or visits the
                    churches that grace its communities.
         
         
         
            The Indiana Coal Industry's Part in World War II
            R. C. FREYTAG
            
            For a clearer presentation of the vital part which the Indiana coal industry played in World War II,
                    the changing aspects of production and the various phases of the industry's picture will be
                    presented as to their status at the outbreak of the 1939 invasions conducted by 
                        Germany
                    , the situation existing- at the time the 
                        United States
                     declared war upon 
                        Japan
                     and 
                        Germany
                    , and the progression from that point to August of the year 1945 which, in all
                    probability, saw the peak of coal production and initiative required to meet demands for coal, as
                    well as the end of the war.
            During World War I, Indiana production had been geared to a high of over thirty million tons in the
                    year 1918, which production figure remained the all-time high, even during the highly prosperous
                    period before 1929. In fact, since 1918, with the exception of one or two years, there was a steady
                    decline in that production to a low of 12,500,000 tons in 1932. The production figure continued to
                    hover around the fourteen to sixteen million mark through 1937, following which there was a decline
                    of three million tons to a little more than thirteen million tons in 1938. This decline is explained
                    by the fact that the latter part of 1937 saw the Bituminous Coal Commission, established by the
                    Bituminous Coal Act of 1937,1 prepare to issue minimum prices for the sale of
                    coal, resulting in purchasers stock-piling more than customarily to avoid increased costs due to the
                    new minimum prices, which would be effective on 1938 purchases. This stock piling resulted in a
                    lesser demand during the year 1938. In the year 1939, however, the production figure rose to over
                    fifteen million tons and, for the year 1941, reached almost twenty-one million tons.
            Unprecedented demands for coal following the declaration of war on 
                        Japan
                     and 
                        Germany
                     returned the production of Indiana to an amazing upward sweep. In comparison with 1941,
                    the production of 1942 increased 2,700,000 tons; the production of 1943 exceeded that of 1942 by
                    160,000 tons; and the production of Indiana mines for 1944 exceeded 26,000,000 tons. All of these
                    figures are exclusive of truck 
                  
                     1
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, L, 127.
               
                     mine tcnnages which are estimated in the neighborhood of two
                    million tons per year.
            The increases in production indicate that Indiana producers were able, because of having followed for
                    years a policy of initiating and maintaining the highest mechanization of their mines, to produce
                    the added requirements for coal which resulted from increased demands within their customary
                    markets.
            Markets for Indiana coal extend more or less in a northerly and westerly direction from the producing
                    fields. In these markets were situated consumers who required practically every and any type of
                    prepared coal made available by the Indiana producers. Large tonnages move to the 
                        Chicago
                     region and northwest into 
                        Wisconsin
                     and 
                        Minnesota
                    . Indiana markets also consume considerable tonnage. Other consumers located west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , in the states of Jowa and 
                        Missouri
                     and in others farther west, complete the general markets. At the time our nation was
                    plunged into war, these markets continued to draw their coal requirements from the Indiana mines but
                    in larger quantities, as previously indicated by the increased production from a little more than
                    fifteen million tons in 1939 to almost twenty-one million tons at the end of 1941, and over
                    twenty-six million tons in 1944.
            The increased production of 1944 moved to normal markets, with the exception of shipments made
                    because of several directives that were issued by the Solid Fuels Administration for War2 to supplement declining production or priority shipment of certain high-grade
                    Eastern coals to other than normal markets.
            In 1939, there were approximately 56 rail mine producers and 622 truck mine producers, which figures,
                    at the time of the entry of the 
                        United States
                     into the war, were changed to 63 rail mine producers and 601 truck mine operators; and
                    77 rail mine producers and 212 truck mine operators comprised the Indiana picture in June, 1944. In
                    February, 1945, there were 84 rail producers and 193 truck mine operators.
            Wage-earners' statistics indicate a trend in employment that was contrary to general belief
                    in that these statistics 
                  
                     2 See below page 11.
               
                     refuted the general understanding of a considerable decrease in
                    personnel in the mines from September, 1939, to and including February, 1945. 
                  Bituminous Coal Mining Wage-Earners3
                  
                  
                     September
                     1939
                     9,555
                  
                  
                     October
                     1940
                     10,208
                  
                  
                     December
                     1941
                     11,987
                  
                  
                     June
                     1942
                     8,186
                  
                  
                     June
                     1943
                     11,063
                  
                  
                     June
                     1944
                     11,733
                  
                  
                     February
                     1945
                     12,069
                  
                It was expected that, with the initiation of the drafting of young men for military
                    training, under the Selective Service Act beginning in October, 1940, a considerable decrease in
                    mine wage-earners would have been effected. The table indicates that, between the period of October,
                    1940, and December, 1941, there was an actual increase of approximately eighteen hundred mine
                    wage-earners. The trend downward, however, between the entry of this country in World War II and the
                    employment figures for the subsequent six months (June, 1942), indicated a decrease from the
                    December, 1941, high figure of 11,987 to 8,186. The figures for June, 1943, and June, 1944, and also
                    for February, 1945, indicate that considerable recovery in number of men employed in the mines was
                    made by producers following the June, 1942, low. This was due to the fact that many of the younger
                    men, who were the mainstays for productive efficiency, were replaced with older men, and in greater
                    numbers to offset the lack in production which would result with the employment of the same number
                    of older men to replace younger men. Then too, continuing increases in demands for Indiana coal
                    required the hiring of many additional older men to maintain production at demand level.
            Questionnaires conducted by the Bituminous Coal Producers Advisory Board for Indiana indicated some
                    interesting trends in the personnel situation, as a major percentage of the mines responded to these
                    questionnaires. The results of these questionnaires are quoted herewith:
            
               
                  3 The figures for this table were furnished by the Indiana Employment
                        Security Division.
            
            
            Report on Results of Survey of Manpower Situation at Indiana Mines4
            
            
               30 employees under 18 years of age;
               57 employees 18 to 21, inclusive, of whom 31 were in 4-F classification;
               198 employees 22 to 25, inclusive, of whom 107 had 3 years' or more experience,
                        years' or more experience, 142 had 2 years' or more experience, 46 were
                        classified 4-F, and 13 of the 4-F's had 3 years' or more experience;
               476 employees 26 to 30, inclusive, of whom 333 had 3 years' or more experience, 405
                        had 2 Years' or more experience, 95 were classified 4-F, and 77 of the 4-F's
                        had 3 years' or more experience.
            
            Recapitulation on Absenteeism and Average Age of Employees in Indiana Mines5
            
            
               
                  Number of Producers Circularized
                   
                   
                  93
               
               
                  Number of Mines Operated by those Producers
                   
                   
                  114
               
               
                  Number of Producers Replying to Questionnaire
                   
                   
                  63
               
               
                  Number of Mines Represented in Replies
                   
                   
                  79
               
               
                  Average Age of Mine Employees as of April 1, 1944
                   
                   
                  45
               
               
                  Total Number of Mine Employees:
                  January
                  1944
                  8,432
               
               
                   
                  February
                  1944
                  8,387
               
               
                   
                  March
                  1944
                  8,370
               
               
                  Number of Days' Work Lost:
                  January
                  1944
                  11,140
               
               
                   
                  February
                  1944
                  11,210
               
               
                   
                  March
                  1944
                  11,293
               
               
                  Average Number of Days Lost
                  January
                  1944
                  1.3
               
               
                  Per Employee Per Month:
                  February
                  1944
                  1.3
               
               
                   
                  March
                  1944
                  1.3
               
            
            These studies and deferments for critically-occupied mining employees are dealt with further under a
                    section devoted to the Solid Fuels Administration for War.6
            
            Priorities on critical materials used in preparation and mining facilities dealt a decided blow to
                    ease of procurement. The producers in the state, through the Coal Trade Association of Indiana,
                    employed William J. Tipton as Co-ordinator of Mines on a part-time basis, who was also employed by
                    the State Defense Council on the same basis. He was to be liaison agent between mine purchasing
                    agents and War Production Board officials located in 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    . Through the efforts of this co-ordinator Indiana producers 
                  
                     4 The figures cover in excess of nine thousand employees of over
                            eleven thousand employed in the April-May, 1944, period.
                  
                     5 The survey was made in May, 1944, covering over eight thousand of
                            the more than eleven thousand mine employees.
                  
                     6 See below page 11.
               
                     could, generally, not only maintain their preparation
                    facilities so vitally needed for the continued increasing demands for coal, but also secure
                    additional production equipment to help increase the tonnage mined.
            Major new operations in the State of Indiana developed during the 1941-1945 period were: 
                  
                     Company
                     Mine
                  
                  
                     Bicknell Coal Company
                     Panhandle No. 2
                  
                  
                     Cedar Valley Mining Corporation
                     Cedar Valley
                  
                  
                     Central Indiana Coal Company
                     Allendale No. 5
                  
                  
                     
                        
                                    Knox
                                 Consolidated Coal Corporation
                     No. 5
                  
                  
                     Linton-Summit Coal Company, Inc.
                     Regent
                  
                  
                     The Maumee Collieries Company
                     Airline No. 29
                  
                  
                     The Maumee Collieries Company
                     Sullivan No. 27
                  
                  
                     Pyramid Coal Corporation
                     Victory
                  
                  
                     Shasta Coal Corporation
                     Shasta
                  
                  
                     Southern Indiana Mining Corporation
                     Piko
                  
                  
                     Standard Coal Company
                     Julian No. 2
                  
                In addition to these, there were several smaller operations which were conducive to the
                    major increase in production that was realized from the Indiana field.
            The same provisional set-up for handling of organized Indiana mines remained in effect during the war
                    period. Labor relations covering strip mine operations were carried on with the United Mine Workers
                    of America through the Indiana Coal Producers Association, located in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and for the deep shaft operators, through the Indiana Coal Operators Association, also
                    located in 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Those truck mines that were organized had as their liaison the Indiana Truck Mine
                    Association.
            While the April, 1941, disagreement as to a wage contract between operators and the United Mine
                    Workers resulted in strikes that curtailed some production, demand was in no way so urgent that
                    after the settlement of differences production was insufficient to meet the 1941 requirements. When,
                    however, the renewal of the contract on April 1, 1943, became imminent, dissatisfaction because of
                    failure to include a portal-to-portal payment as time worked resulted in major strikes, which were
                    concluded by government seizure of the mines through a newly established bureau known as the Coal
                    Mines Administration.7 This administration, to all intents and purposes,
                    operated the mines, appointing as 
                  
                     7 See below page 19.
               
                     the operating managers those who had previously directed the
                    activities of the seized mines when under private ownership.
            By June, 1944, the difficulties that existed between mine operators and the United Mine Workers of
                    America had been concluded with respect to portal-to-portal back payment and the inclusion of a
                    provision for future payment in the wage structure, based upon a Supreme Court decision8 that portal-to-portal pay was proper within the Fair Labor Standards Act.9 Actually, the details of the agreement were worked out by Coal Mines
                    Administrator Harold L. Ickes and President John L. Lewis of the United Mine Workers of America; the
                    various operator groups represented by their liaison agencies concluded the agreements by formal
                    wage contracts in keeping with that agreement. The only exception in the entire 
                        United States
                     was the Jewell Ridge Coal Corporation, operating two mines in 
                        Alabama
                    , which was contesting a portal-to-portal decision pending in the higher courts.10 To protect itself, this company preferred to remain under the Coal Mines
                    Administration until at such time as its contentions, with respect to portal-to-portal compensation,
                    were either supported or disapproved by the higher court.
            Later, the portal-to-portal issue was declared a required payment and, subsequently, during the 1945
                    wage contract negotiations, was accepted as a basis for discussions. Failure to arrive at a new
                    contract before April 1, 1945, resulted in sporadic strikes, even in the face of a mutual agreement
                    to continue the old contract for thirty days. Some seizures resulted but not in the numbers reached
                    in 1943. The 1945 contract was finally signed and submitted to the National War Labor Board for
                    approval on April 11, and approved on April 23, 1945.11
            
            As of February, 1945, the number of rail mine producers was 84 operating 104 mines. Truck mine
                    producers had, because of inability to retain personnel and failure to secure 
                  
                     8
                            
                                Tennessee
                             Coal, Iron & Railroad Co. et al., v. Muscoda Local
                            No. 123 et al., 321 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Reports (1944), 590.
                  
                     9
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, LII, 676.
                  
                     10 Jewell Ridge Coal Corporation, Petitioner, v.
                            Local No. 6167, United Mine Workers of America, et al., 89 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Supreme Court Reports (1945), 1011.
                  
                     11 "National Bituminous-Coal Wage Agreement Executed in 
                                Washington
                            , 
                                D.C.
                            , April 11, 1945," United Mine Workers Journal
                                    (
                        Indianapolis; Washington
                     , 1891-), LVI (April 15, 1945),
                        6-7.
               
                     some operating replacement materials, declined considerably in
                    number. In 1937 there were approximately seven hundred such small producers. This figure declined
                    constantly as shown in the following years:
            
               
                  1939 — 622
                  1942 — 493
                  1944 — 212
               
               
                  1941 — 601
                  1943 — 255
                  February 1945 — 193
               
            
            While this reduction in truck mine operation continued there was not a too-noticeable slump in the
                    total production because many of the truck mines became mechanized and engaged in large-scale
                    production. This, together with the lengthened work-week of the rail mine producers and the
                    increased efficiency resulting from the market demands, speeded up Indiana to the unusual high
                    production figures indicated before.
            The tremendous transportation load placed upon the railroad and trucking facilities of the nation was
                    met ably by companies engaged in those businesses. The Office of Defense Transportation, established
                    by Executive Order of the President,12 had as its responsibilities the continued
                    flow of vital military and civilian goods through the conservation and maintenance of the available
                    rail and. truck facilities. So far as Indiana coal producers were concerned, local defense
                    transportation offices worked in conjunction with the Coal Trade Association of Indiana and
                    representatives of the Bituminous Coal Producers Advisory Board for Indiana to the Office of Solid
                    Fuels Administration for War, to conserve equipment, to procure in the case of truck coal-hauding
                    equipment necessary tires and gasoline requirements for essential haulage, and, in the case of
                    railroad equipment, to secure the co-operation of railroads to have available necessary cars for
                    shipping the output of Indiana mines. Details of this phase of the industry's war problem
                    will be dealt with later under the Office of Defense Transportation.13
            
            The greatly increased supplies of coal demanded by industrial consumers, particularly those that had
                    transferred to war activities, meant a large demand in the industrial-sized coals, ranging from a
                    maximum 2" top size to a minimum bottom size of 0. Fortunately, the crushing of large sizes
                    of double-screened coal was not required to any great extent 
                  
                     12 See below page 21.
                  
                     13 See below page 21.
               
                     to take care of the increased demand for the industrial sizes
                    because the general over-all increase in the larger sizes of coal demanded by the railroads resulted
                    in sufficient production of the industrial-sized coal through regular screening processes. Domestic
                    consumption of Indiana coal, while slightly increased, would not have been sufficient in the
                    double-screened sizes to have produced the necessary industrial-sized coals resulting from the
                    screening processes.
            Demands for supplies of Indiana coal made upon producers by industrial, railroad, and domestic
                    consumers were met with comparative ease from the period 1939 to the end of 1941. Programs of
                    maintaining stock piles carried on by various industries were enlarged to some extent in view of the
                    expected greater demand of coal. When that demand asserted itself, beginning with 1942, it became
                    necessary to urge domestic consumers to buy during the summer months rather than delaying purchase
                    of winter supplies to the actual burning season. Programs urging such domestic purchases were
                    carried on through radio, newspaper and trade publications, sponsored by retail dealers in the main
                    who were made aware of the necessity for domestic consumers engaging in such a program. Later,
                    following the establishment of the Solid Fuels Administration for War, a definite program of stock
                    piling for both domestic and industrial consumers was fostered, rules and regulations governing such
                    programs being issued by that office. Details of this program and other activities of the Solid
                    Fuels Administration for War will be dealt with separately later.14 Other
                    agencies interested in fostering programs of the aforementioned type included the Bituminous Coal
                    Institute, an organization established by co-operative contributions of larger coal producers to
                    better the public's understanding of the coal industry, and the National Coal Association,
                    an organization active for more than a quarter of a century in the interest of coal-producing
                    companies in the 
                        United States
                    . These organizations, in co-operation with public outlets, stressed coal conservation
                    by hints on proper firing, installation and maintenance of burning equipment.
            During the period from 1939 to 1945, which this article covers, the industry was affected not only by
                    rapidly changing 
                  
                     14 See below page 11.
               
                     conditions but also by widespread government regulation. The
                    Bituminous Coal Act of 1937, through which minimum prices were established below which coals could
                    not be sold, expired in August, 1943, but provision had been made to carry on its intents and
                    purposes. With the establishment of the Solid Fuels Administration for War and the Coal Mines
                        Administration,15 the former continued more or less the activities carried
                    on during the existence of the Bituminous Coal Division under the Bituminous Coal Act of 1937, and
                    the latter was created for the purpose of serving as the administrative agency to operate the coal
                    mines if government seizure became necessary during the wage deadlock which started in April, 1943.
                    The Emergency Price Control Act of 1942, approved on January 30, 1942,16
                    resulted in the establishment of the Office of Price Administration in which a Solid Fuels Price
                    Branch was created. This Solid Fuels Price Branch concerned itself with establishing the maximum
                    prices at which coals could be sold. Other government groups, such as the Office of Defense
                    Transportation and War Production Board17 also affected the industry. Each of
                    the agencies mentioned will now be dealt with separately.
            The Bituminous Coal Division, successor to the National Bituminous Coal Commission,18 established in April of 1937 pursuant to the provisions of the Bituminous Coal Act of 1937,
                    was so designated by Reorganization Plan No. II issued by President Roosevelt which became effective
                    on July 1, 1939.19 This organization continued its functions of establishing and
                    policing minimum prices for coals of various sizes, grades, and characteristics during the period
                    from its organization to August 23, 1943, the date the Bituminous Coal Act of 1937 expired. It also
                    established marketing rules and regulations under which the industry operated, and promulgated rules
                    and regulations concerning distributors. A schedule of minimum prices was prepared and put in effect
                        
                  
                     15 See below pages 11 and 19.
                  
                     16
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, LVI, 26.
                  
                     17 See below page 22.
                  
                     18
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, XLIX, 824; Code of Federal Regulations
                                of the 
                                    United States
                                 of America (15 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1939), VIII, 369-421.
                  
                     19
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, LIII, 193; Code of Federal Regulations
                                … Cumulative Supplement (9 books, 
                                Washington
                            , 1943 1944), book 1, pp. 1294-1298.
               
                     as of September 3, 1940, for both rail and truck mines in the
                    State of Indiana.20
            
            The policing of minimum prices was a major responsibility of the Bituminous Coal Division,
                    particularly during the period in which production facilities at the mines exceeded the
                    purchasers' demands. The picture began to change, however, with the increased demand for
                    coal during the years 1941 and 1942. Then minimum prices no longer were the governing factor in the
                    market, but rather the supply of coal available. This transition may be described as "from
                    minimum prices to what the market would bear." This "what the market would
                    bear" phase became the concern of the Office of Price Administration, mentioned earlier.
            The Solid Fuels Administration for War was established on April 19, 1943, pursuant to the provisions
                    of Executive Order No. 9332. This agency was considered by the producers to be more or less a
                    provisional move to continue government control to almost the same degree as under the Bituminous
                    Coal Act. This act was scheduled to expire, April 26, 1943, but it was renewed for a period of
                    thirty days at one time and ninety days at another time. It eventually expired on August 23, 1943,
                    and the Solid Fuels Administration for War was announced, effective August 24, 1943, as continuing
                    certain activities and taking over personnel that had constituted the extinct Bituminous Coal
                        Division.21
            
            The Solid Fuels Administration for War proceeded with the issuance of various orders and regulations
                    to assure continued flow of the produced coal to vital industries, as well as to the usual markets.
                    These orders were directed not only to the producers but to the retail dealers as well.
                    Concurrently, with such orders, committees to advise the Solid Fuels Administration for War were
                    established, among which was the Bituminous Coal Producers Advisory Board for each bituminous coal
                    producing district authorized on August 3, 
                  
                     20
                            
                                United States
                             Department of the Interior, Bituminous Coal Division, Schedule of
                                Effective Minimum Prices for District No. 11 (
                                Washington
                            , 1942), D-11-1-90. This schedule shows effective minimum prices as of October
                            1, 1942, the final issue by the Bituminous Coal Division. A copy of this schedule is on file
                            in the office of the Indiana War History Commission, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     21
                            Federal Register, VIII, 5355, 11542; Code of Federal
                                Regulations … Cumulative Supplement, book 1, pp. 1270-1272.
               
                     1943. 22 The Bituminous Coal Producers
                    Advisory Board for Indiana, appointed on August 16, 1943, elected the following officers: R. E.
                    Snoberger, Chairman, William H. Cooke, Vice-Chairman; C. C. Lydick, Secretary and Treasurer; and R.
                    C. Freytag, Assistant Secretary and Assistant Treasurer.23
            
            In the retail field, local advisory committees, as well as area advisory committees, were established
                    to concern themselves with recommendations as to local emergencies and sectional emergencies,
                    respectively. Area Distribution Managers were also appointed to oversee generally the Solid Fuels
                    Administration for War activities in the various producing districts. William G. Stockton was
                    appointed to that position in the State of Indiana on November 28, 1943. These Boards and
                    Committees, with the Area Distribution Manager as liaison with the 
                        Washington
                     offices of the Solid Fuels Administration for War, dealt with such subjects as coal
                    supply emergencies, proposed rules and regulations governing the producers and retailers, and
                    procurement of vitally needed mine and plant equipment to insure continued coal production.24 The regulation which was generally the most effective on Indiana producers
                    was Regulation No. 10 which set forth a stock limitation table under which industrial purchasers of
                    Indiana coal were required to limit their purchases based upon the days' supply on hand.25 Later a revision of this regulation was issued as Regulation No. 23;26 and again as Regulation No. 27.27 This measure was
                    instituted throughout most of the producing districts in the country to make possible an increase in
                    the days' supply of coal by consumers whose supply was not sufficient in case any major
                    emergency arose. This was accomplished by permitting those consumers to purchase in excess of their
                    requirements based upon a percentage table, whereas those 
                  
                     22
                            Federal Register, VIII, 10974.
                  
                     23 Other Members of the Board in addition to Messrs. Snoberger and
                            Cooke were: Arch V. Grossman, Kenneth R. Ingle, George J. Leahy, Hugh B. Lee, B. E.
                            Lundblad, R. H. May, W. J. O'Brien, Earl Oliphant, O. L. Scales, Henry P. Smith, G.
                            Don Sullivan, William J. Tipton, W. M. Zeller, W. Paul Zimmerman, Louis Austin, Labor
                            Member.
                  
                     24
                            Federal Register, VIII, 5832, 11714, 14277, 15176, 15422, 15443, 16320;
                            IX, 2206, 3487, 4005, 4380, 8114, 8289.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., VIII, 15773; IX, 4380.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., IX, 8114.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., X, 2909, 3798.
               
                     purchasers having a stock pile considered sufficient to meet
                    emergencies were limited as to the supplies of coal they could purchase.
            The District Advisory Board, as the Bituminous Coal Producers Advisory Board for Indiana was known,
                    also conducted surveys under the direction of the Solid Fuels Administration for War of the manpower
                    situation at Indiana mines. The purpose was to determine the effect of the Selective Service Act
                    upon the personnel at the mines. Earlier reference has been made to the results of these surveys.28 Circulars indicating the results were issued to producers following the
                    completion of the surveys.29 These surveys resulted in some concerted action
                    being taken to secure special deferments for men in the twenty-two to twenty-five age bracket. The
                    executive committee of the District Advisory Board aided the Area Distribution Manager in reaching
                    decisions as to which of the special deferment applications filed by the producer should be
                    certified to the Solid Fuels Administration for War. The Solid Fuels Administration for War, in
                    turn, made its recommendations to the State Selective Service Director and he, in turn, to the local
                    Selective Service Board as to the individual mine employee whose deferment was being sought.
            When, early in 1945, withdrawals from mining personnel in the age group of eighteen to thirty were
                    impending up to seventy per cent of such personnel, representations to Selective Service resulted in
                    unequivocal deferments for such personnel because of essentiality to continued production of
                    vitally-needed coal.
            Shortages in domestic supplies of coal for Indiana homes became acute in January, 1945, due mainly to
                    curtailment in supplies of eastern-produced coal for such purposes, and the further fact that
                    Indiana domestic users of coal had failed to heed suggestions that they purchase Indiana-mined coal
                    to supplement their usual supplies.
            On January 11, 1945, at a meeting of the Bituminous Coal Producers Advisory Board for Indiana, the
                    members, who are major producers of Indiana coal, elected to establish 
                  
                     28 See above page 4.
                  
                     29 Copies of these circulars, Circular No. 47, April 11, 1944, and
                            Circular No. 51, May 1, 1944, are on file in the office of the Indiana War History
                            Commission, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
               
                     an emergency pool of coal to meet the ever increasing demands
                    to relieve shortages becoming more and more apparent in many Indiana communities. While the Solid
                    Fuels Administration for War offices at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in co-operation with the 
                        Terre Haute
                     District Advisory Board office, had been successful in a measure in securing emergency
                    shipments by appeals to individual Indiana producers, some more workable plan needed creation. The
                    Solid Fuels Administration for War offices at 
                        Washington
                    , upon suggestion by Indiana producers, had approved a proposed plan which had been
                    discussed with them. This plan was unanimously adopted at the meeting, to be effective January
                        15.30
            
            In order to create a domestically usable coal, it was agreed that railroad coal, usually prepared in
                    sizes ranging from a 6" top and a 1¼″ bottom should, in effect, be
                    shorted to the extent of fifteen per cent by screening out 4" top size and
                    1¼″ bottom size coal. The fifteen per cent thus "robbed"
                    from the railroad size would create the domestic emergency pool from which shipments to the needy
                    communities would be directed. In turn, the fifteen per cent thus taken from the railroad fuel was
                    to be replaced by mixing in a like amount of 1¼″ 0 coal into the regular
                    railroad coal shipments. The supply of screenings for this fifteen per cent mixture was to be
                    secured by limiting industrial consumers using this size of coal to shipments ten per cent less than
                    their January and February allowed tonnages, provided their storage piles had in excess of twenty
                    days' supply of coal. This plan was agreeable to all concerned, including the railroads
                    that would be involved in the shipment of the mixture of railroad coal consisting of the eighty-five
                    per cent of the size normally shipped and the fifteen per cent of screenings mixed therewith.
            The Voluntary Industry Committee on Coal Emergencies, which was the official designation of the
                    committee appointed by the Indiana Board to handle the emergency requests from various dealers in
                    Indiana communities, began to function on January 15. At the direction of the Board, it operated on
                    the principle that an emergency existed in any retail dealer's yard only if that yard was
                    without coal or had no coal en route to the yard. Requests from dealers were received 
                  
                     30
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, January 12, 1945.
               
                     at the 
                        Indianapolis
                     office of the Solid Fuels Administration for War by telephone, telegraph, letter, and
                    by personal calls. These were handled by a corps of interviewers who filled in emergency coal
                    request forms upon which the Voluntary Industry Committee on Coal Emergencies acted. Once approved,
                    the committee determined the company to which the emergency request would be assigned for shipment.
                    This was done percentage-wise, based upon the 1944 production of the participating companies to the
                    state as a whole.
            For a six-week period, from January 15 to February 24, this committee functioned with headquarters at
                    the office of the Solid Fuels Administration for War in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Its personnel consisted of two permanent members, William G. Stockton, Area
                    Distribution Manager, Solid Fuels Administration for War; and R. C. Freytag, Assistant
                    Managing-Director of the Coal Trade Association of Indiana and Assistant Secretary of the Bituminous
                    Coal Producers Advisory Board, with six rotating members of executives from producing companies or
                    sales agents with offices located in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .31 Statistically, the activities of this committee may be summed up
                    as follows:
            
               Number of requests processed 777
               Number of cars approved 598
               Number of requests rejected 81
               Number of cars referred to Solid Fuels Administration for shipment from surplus 98
               Number of cars rejected by dealers after Committee approval 33
               Number of cars shipped to dealers 565
               Number of communities served 184
               One of these communities (
                            Indianapolis
                        ) received 115 of the 565 cars shipped from the emergency pool. Thus, 450 cars of
                        emergency coal moved to 183 communities other than 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            In addition to the above emergency shipments, the office of the Solid Fuels Administration for War at 
                        Indianapolis
                     supervised the direction of approximately three hundred cars of so-called surplus coal
                    to needy communities to supplement the original shipments from the emergency pool. As an 
                  
                     31 These rotating members were: Walter R. Schott, Binkley Coal
                            Company; B. F. LeMond, 
                                Knox
                             Consolidated Coal Corporation; James H. Obear, The Enos Coal Mining Company; J.
                            A. Larr, Inter-State Coal Company; C. E. Buser, Republic Coal & Coke Company; and
                            Thomas Fox, Central Indiana Coal Company.
               
                     example, shipments from surplus supplementing the 115 cars of
                    emergency coal to 
                        Indianapolis
                     amounted to an additional 211 cars; to 
                        Evansville
                    , surplus shipments amounted to twenty-nine cars. The balance of the three hundred cars
                    moved to a number of other communities.
            In the final week of its activities, the committee noticed a decided drop in requests for emergency
                    coal. Specifically, where previously weekly approvals of emergency coal had run as high as 167, in
                    the final week they dropped to twenty-three, indicating that the emergency had been decidedly
                    alleviated and that the activities of the committee could be concluded without endangering the
                    health of any community through a possible coal shortage.
            Naturally, there was some animosity created by the rejection of certain emergency applications. The
                    committee, however, carried out the precepts established by the District Advisory Board as a basis
                    for its operation and refused any dealer the right to any emergency shipment who had a sufficient
                    stock of coal on ground or coal moving to his yard. It was not the intention of the committee under
                    any circumstances to "subsidize" increased business over that usually handled by
                    any one dealer through the allocation of emergency coal in a quantity which would suffice for such
                    purposes. All in all, the results achieved through the operations of the emergency coal pool created
                    by Indiana producers far overshadow the minor criticisms which have been leveled at the policies
                    adopted. The prevention of suffering in Indiana communities through a proper coal supply was
                    definitely accomplished.
            Indiana coal producers were affected also by the regulations of the Office of Price Administration.
                    Office of Price Administrator Leon Henderson on April 28, 1942, issued Maximum Price Regulation No.
                    120, which covered maximum prices for Indiana coal as well as for other coal produced in the 
                        United States
                    .32 Thereafter, certain changes embodied in Amendment No. 7,
                    effective June 27, 1942, were issued concerning Indiana coal.33 Again, on
                    December 24, but retroactive to May 18, 1942, Amendment No. 30 pertaining to certain Indiana coal
                    was issued.34
            
            
               
                  32
                        Federal Register, VII, 3168.
               
                  33
                        Ibid., 4700.
               
                  34
                        Ibid., 10993.
            
            
            The six-day work-week was instituted in Indiana early in 1943 in place of the five-day,
                    thirty-five-hour week which was previously in effect. This resulted in a representation to the
                    Office of Price Administration by a committee of Indiana producers of the need for increasing
                    maximum prices to allow for the additional labor and other costs that would be incurred. This
                    representation resulted in the issuance of Amendment No. 48 allowing certain increases in the prices
                    for coal produced in the State of Indiana.35
            
            In the latter part of 1943, the Office of Price Administration appointed Bituminous Coal Producers
                    Industry Advisory Committees for the various producing areas in the 
                        United States
                    .36 The Indiana committee, working in conjunction with the Office of
                    Price Administration, made representations for the need for further increasing maximum prices, based
                    upon the unusual producing costs incurred by hand-loading mines and those mines having to haul from
                    their preparation facilities to a railroad siding for rail shipment. This resulted in Amendment No.
                    73, effective November 29, 1943, and Amendment No. 76, effective December 16, 1943.37 These amendments permitted a twenty-cent increase over effective maximum prices for all
                    hand-loading mines or truck mines having to haul to a rail siding, and a five-cent per ton increase
                    for all other rail and truck mines. Another important feature of Amendment No. 76 was the fact that
                    the railroad fuel price level became the maximum at which lump and double-screened coal (classified
                    in 
                        Price Groups
                     1 to 8, inclusive, including mine run) could be sold if the commercial prices were
                    below those established for locomotive fuel use.
            In an effort to reduce the number of price groups and to simplify the maximum price schedule, the
                    Industry Advisory Committee for Indiana collaborated upon such a simplified maximum price schedule,
                    resulting in Amendment No. 94, which became effective March 27, 1944.38 This
                    schedule was later corrected by a correction to Amendment No. 91 and by Amendment No. 107.39
            
            
               
                  35
                        Ibid., VIII, 3216.
               
                  36 See above page 12 and note 23. All the members except Louis Austin were
                        appointed to the Office of Price Administration Committee.
               
                  37
                        Federal Register, VIII, 16280, 16998.
               
                  38
                        Ibid., IX, 3299.
               
                  39
                        Ibid., 7602.
            
            
            Special studies were conducted by the offices of the Industry Advisory Committee for Indiana to
                    warrant the continuance of the twenty-cent premium for hand-loading mines beyond the specified
                    expiration date of June 1, 1944. A temporary extension was made to August 1, 1944, to permit the
                    completion of a study which was being conducted to substantiate the claim that the twenty-cent
                    increase involved was entirely necessary to continue these hand-loading mines in the business of
                    producing coal. Later, when a consolidated maximum truck price schedule was issued, the
                    aforementioned differential was permanently established, effective August 5, 1944.40 Upon the conclusion of the 1945 wage negotiations in April of 1945, the committee again
                    cooperated with the Office of Price Administration offices to determine a proper increase in maximum
                    prices to offset increased costs resulting from the new contract. Effective May 1, 1945, the Office
                    of Price Administration issued Amendment No. 137 to Maximum Price Regulation No. 120 increasing the
                    prices in effect April 30 for coal from District No. 11 (Indiana) twenty cents per ton for
                    hand-loading mines and nine cents per ton for all other mechanized truck or rail mines. An
                    additional increase of four cents per ton on all maximum prices for Indiana coal was made effective
                    August 3, 1945, by Amendment No. 146. This came about through further conferences with the Office of
                    Price Administration and threatened action by congressional committees who were impressed with the
                    Office of Price Administration's failure to have allowed sufficient increases on May 1 to
                    offset actual increased costs of production.41
            
            The Industry Advisory Committee, with respect to new mines coming into operation, was required to
                    make recommendations to the Office of Price Administration as to the proper maximum prices that
                    should apply. This was done through the appointment of a Classification Committee of three
                    individuals whose findings were reported to the Industry Advisory Committee. If the findings were
                    approved, they were submitted to the Solid Fuels Price Branch of the Office of Price Administration
                    as the recommendations of the Indiana Committee.
            As the outgrowth of the inability of the mine operators 
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., 9281.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., X, 4910, 9175.
               
                     and the representatives of the United Mine Workers of America
                    to conclude a satisfactory wage agreement following the expiration of the former agreement on March
                    31, 1943, a general strike ensued in the coal industry. The continued inability to reach an
                    agreement resulted in the seizure of the mining properties by the newly-established Coal Mines
                    Administration under Secretary of the Interior Harold L. Ickes. Actual seizure took place on May 1,
                    1943. On May 19, 1943, Secretary of the Interior Ickes, using Executive Order No. 9340 as authority,
                    issued rules and regulations for the operation of coal mines under government control. These were
                    amended and reissued and on July 29, 1943, the Coal Mines Administration was established.42 The order liquidating the Coal Mines Administration was issued by Secretary
                    of the Interior Ickes on August 16, 1944, to become effective at the close of business on August 31,
                        1944.43 Sporadic strikes continued through the period to October, 1943,
                    during which interim some mines were returned to their owners from government possession. Following
                    October 12, when the remaining mines were returned, strikes again began breaking out in various
                    sections of the country, resulting in a reseizure of the mines by Secretary of the Interior Ickes on
                    November 1. Following November 7, strikes were in the majority discontinued during the working out
                    of details between operators and the United Mine Workers based upon the Ickes-Lewis agreement which
                    was approved by the National War Labor Board, and which included the portal-to-portal compensation
                    issue. As mentioned earlier, all mines were eventually returned to private ownership following the
                    signing of the contract agreement between operators and the union; the only exception to this
                    release was the Jewell Ridge Coal Corporation, operating two mines in 
                        Alabama
                    .44
            
            In Indiana, the Coal Mines Administration appointed a regional director who co-ordinated its
                    activities with the Indiana producers. The position was originally filled by William P. Stein,
                    appointed on May 1, 1943, who was succeeded 
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., VIII, 5695, 6655, 10712, 11344, 17339; Code of Federal
                                Regulations … Cumulative Supplement, book 1, pp.
                            1276-1277; "U.S. Takes over the Coal Mines," Life (
                                Chicago
                            , 1936-), XIV (May 10, 1943), 23.
                  
                     43
                            Federal Register, IX, 11096.
                  
                     44 See above page 6.
               
                     in turn by Robert E. Gray on October 1, 1943, and William G.
                    Stockton on February 16, 1944. The responsibilities of the Indiana field office included the
                    constant surveying of labor conditions and their effect upon the production of the vitally-needed
                    coal.
            At the time of government seizure, the Coal Mines Administration offered the owners and operators of
                    seized mines the right to file Instruments of Agreement and Certification to protect their financial
                    rights against any undue expenditures due to such seizure.45
            
            The Secretary of the Interior, who formerly was designated as Coal Mines Administrator, again seized
                    some striking mines in April, 1945, but fewer in number by far, when sporadic strikes resulted from
                    failure to reach a new contract agreement prior to April 1. The contract was signed, however, on
                    April 11, and approved by the National War Labor Board on April 23, 1945.46
            
            Orders of the Office of Defense Transportation, established on December 18, 1941, pursuant to
                    Executive Order No. 8989, affected all forms of transportation within the country.47 Specifically, however, certain orders affected the haulage of coal by truck from coal
                    producing facilities to use destinations and the haulage of coal in strip mining pits from the
                    shovel to the preparation facilities; also in some instances, truck mines having no rail facilities
                    at their preparation tipple came under the jurisdiction of various orders of the Office of Defense
                    Transportation affecting the haulage of the coal from the tipple to the rail siding.
            The District Board for District No. 11, operating under the Bituminous Coal Act, and its successor
                    the District Advisory Board, operating under the Solid Fuels Administration for War, actively
                    engaged with the Office of Defense Transportation in seeking the rescindment of certain orders which
                    were felt to prejudice the operators of certain coal haulage. Through the activities of these
                    groups, the Office of Defense Transportation exempted coal hauling trucks from the one hundred per
                    cent load requirements to and 
                  
                     45 Instruments of Agreement and Certification are on file in the
                            office of the Indiana War History Commission, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     46 See above page 7.
                  
                     47
                            Federal Register, VI, 6725; Code of Federal Regulations
                                … Cumulative Supplement, book 1, pp. 1049-1051.
               
                     from a destination, as well as the pit hauling trucks within a
                    given mining property.48 Later, in the conduct of the war, particularly during
                    the early part of 1944 when dire shortages of tires and gasoline supplies for trucking purposes
                    became apparent, the District Advisory Board for Indiana and its truck mine representative, William
                    J. Tipton, prepared an operative plan with the 
                        Terre Haute
                     local office of the Office of Defense Transportation which insured deserving coal
                    truckers a supply of tires and gasoline.
            The Office of Defense Transportation, like other governmental agencies, also appointed a Coal
                    Producers Advisory Committee in Indiana.49 This committee has not, at the
                    present writing, functioned in any particular matter, but was available when necessary.
            During the sporadic strikes in 1943, following the failure of a wage agreement between Indiana
                    producers and the United Mine Workers of America, the Office of Defense Transportation issued
                    various orders freezing industrial coals en route to destination. This was effected to insure those
                    plants having less than ten days' supply a possible source of coal by rerouting coal
                    destined to plants having ten or more days' supply. These freezing orders, however, did not
                    remain in effect for any appreciable time, the imminent danger of shortage being overcome by the
                    return of miners to the production of coal.50
            
            The War Production Board, established on January 16, 1942, pursuant to Executive Order No. 9024,51 like the Solid Fuels Administration for War, the Office of Price
                    Administration, the Coal Mines Administration, and the Office of Defense Transportation, exerted a
                    very direct and limiting influence upon the operations of the coal mines in Indiana during the
                    period of its existence. All materials used in the mining and preparation of coal came within the
                    jurisdiction of the War Production Board under either its mining branch 
                  
                     48
                            Federal Register, VIII, 14477, 14480, 14481, 14484, 14485; IX, 116.
                  
                     49 The committee consisted of the following: William H. Cooke, Arch V.
                            Grossman, Kenneth Ingle, George J. Leahy, Hugh B. Lee, R. H. May, W. J. O'Brien, R.
                            H. Sherwood, Henry P. Smith, R. E. Snoberger, G. Don Sullivan, William J. Tipton, W. M.
                            Zeller, Earl Oliphant, O. L. Scales, W. Paul Zimmerman, Louis Austin, H. V. Scott.
                  
                     50
                            Federal Register, VIII, 5677.
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., VII, 329; Code of Federal Regulations …
                                Cumulative Supplement, book 1, pp. 1079-1080.
               
                     or its lumber industry regulations. Indiana rail producers,
                    following the precept of the Office of Civilian Defense for Indiana, also employed William J. Tipton
                    as Co-ordinator of Mines on a half-time basis, thus occupying the balance of his available time with
                    carrying out for rail mines the same liaison activities for which he had been engaged between truck
                    mine producers and the War Production Board offices at 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    , by the Office of Civilian Defense of the State of Indiana. The Co-ordinator of Mines
                    succeeded in co-ordinating mine purchasing with manufacturing schedules and War Production Board
                    priorities to the benefit of the Indiana operators and their continued high rate of production.
            Knowledge of the critical competitive situation, which will be extant at the close of the war, has
                    forced Indiana producers, along with those in other producing areas in the country, to give serious
                    consideration to the requirements of the post-war era. Stepped-up production facilities which will
                    not be required, refinements in the consumer requirements because of a purchaser's rather
                    than a seller's market, and research and public relations programs carried on by
                    competitive fuels, are major factors bearing upon the period to come. As of the present writing four
                    steps have been taken by Indiana producers to anticipate the new competitive era: (1) contributions
                    to Bituminous Coal Research, Incorporated, (2) contributions to the Bituminous Coal Institute, (3)
                    the formation of the Indiana Coal Preparation and Utilization Society, and (4) the establishment of
                    Coal Laboratories, Inc., at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana.
            In the order of their listing, these organizations are concerned with research in the better
                    utilization of coal, the public relations aspect of the coal industry, co-ordination between the
                    consumers' requirements and the combustion engineering and preparation facilities made
                    available by Indiana coal producers to such consumers, and improvement in preparation of Indiana
                    coal, as well as the analytical services and chemical analyses necessary to the maintenance of coal
                    standards. As in the many years past, Indiana producers have continued to maintain and advance their
                    preparation facilities for the better utilization of their production by consumers. In keeping
                    abreast of developments through such channels in competitive fields, and in the possible application
                         of refinement to their own product, Indiana producers will
                    continue to serve the thousands of their customers to the end that they secure the most energy
                    possible from Indiana-mined and prepared coal.
         
         
         
            The Swiss Inn of 
                        Vevay
                    , An Old Landmark
            JULIE LE CLERC KNOX
            
            The old Swiss inn of Vevay was seriously damaged by fire August 11, 1943. Five brick thick in parts,
                    the walls are still intact and the firemen assert as solid as ever. The roof was destroyed and some
                    of the interior badly gutted but not beyond repair. This left this historic old town, a mecca for
                    tourists, without a hotel—a serious condition.
            For a century the inn has been the social center of the community. It was established in 1833 by
                    Robert Le Clerc whose father, Pierre Louis Le Clerc, and mother came from 
                        France
                    . Robert Le Clerc was assisted in this founding by his French-Swiss bride, daughter of
                    Monsieur and Madame Jean Morerod. The latter was a sister of the Dufour brothers who founded 
                        Vevay
                     in 1802; Morerod was a soldier of Napoleon and fought at 
                        Marengo
                    . After the death of her husband in 1856, Mrs. Julie Elise Le Clerc conducted the inn
                    until 1894, a year before her death. The original building was added to until it grew, like
                    "The Chambered Nautilus," into the present three-story brick building of forty or
                    more rooms.
            A clarion-voiced bell in the cupola regularly summoned boarders to meals and so regular was it that
                    the people set their timepieces by it. It was often borrowed, either with or without permission, to
                    assist at charivaris and Halloween pranks, but woe to the luckless wight who failed to return it in
                    time for its matutinal duties. The old bell rang out the old year and rang in the new; it tolled
                    defiance when Fort Sumter fell, sounded taps for Lincoln, and welcomed home the heroes of the Civil
                    War.
            The old register lists some nationally known names. Among them are Henry S. Lane, who helped to make
                    Lincoln President; Benjamin Harrison, then campaigning for governor; Daniel Voorhees, "tall
                    sycamore of the 
                        Wabash
                    "; "Blue Jeans" Williams, once governor of the state; William
                    H. Venable, historian and humorist; James Whitcomb Riley; and Thomas Marshall.
            For years the hospitality of the old inn was renowned. The place was known up and down the river as
                    "The House of Candles" for there was no night clerk, and the drummers arriving on
                    the night boats were accustomed to light themselves  to bed with
                    tapers left for that purpose on the desk in the "gentlemen's sitting
                    room." This custom offered a chance for free lodging to those inclined to abuse a trust by
                    an early, unostentatious flitting. No doubt many an errant lodger arose betimes and
                    "silently stole away."
            
               
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Louisville
                     newspapers often published reminiscences of the old-time traveling men appreciative of
                    the old Le Clerc House, its hospitality, candles, French cookery, and its presiding genius,
                    "Aunt Julie," as she was generally called. The spacious double parlors were a
                    social center over which Mrs. Le Clerc and her daughters dispensed a lavish hospitality. Every
                    evening the black hair chairs and sofas were filled with the elite of the town.
            The traditions of the inn have been carried on for the past fifteen years by the present owner, Mrs.
                    E. P. Downey, but she has now decided to retire. Thus this place, so long a friend to the public,
                    seems abandoned to the luckless fate of a filling station or some such deterioration unless a
                    champion arises to put it on its feet again as a hotel. "It takes a heap of livin'
                    to make a home" and surely this old house deserves that name and a chance to continue its
                    well-proven usefulness to 
                        Vevay
                     and community.
         
         
            An Interesting Old Home of 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana
            JULIE LE CLERC KNOX
            
            Visitors of 
                        Vevay
                    , a little town of Swiss origin in 
                        Switzerland County
                    , always seem surprised to find so many antiques in the various old homes. One of the
                    most notable of these interesting homes is that of Dr. and Mrs. R. M. Copeland. Having been
                    collectors for years, they have added many antiques to those they inherited.
            Recently, they sold the large brick house on Main Street and purchased from Mrs. Adelaide Fairbanks
                    Causey an intriguing six-room bungalow on Market Street on the overhanging bank of the 
                        Ohio
                    . This cottage was built almost one hundred years ago by Thomas Armstrong, one of the
                    most substantial pioneers prominent in social, civic, and political movements. He was one of the
                    first tavernkeepers of the place, and the house where he conducted the inn is still in good repair
                    which proves he excelled as a builder. He served  seven years as
                    the first county recorder, was one of the backers of the first bank in the county, and was a member
                    of the state legislature in 1850.1 It was at his house the 
                        Switzerland County
                     Committee met and nominated Henry Clay for President and Andrew Jackson for
                    Vice-President, and the county courts were also occasionally held here. Evidently, it was at the
                    tavern these meetings were held as the brick cottage was erected later.
            This house is four rooms and a hall wide and two rooms deep on the west side. The hall and the room
                    on each side have hardwood floors covered with Oriental, Indian, and braided rugs. Another room has
                    the original broad planks. The ceilings are twelve feet high and the woodwork, painted white, is the
                    lovely kind found only in fine old houses. Some of the walls are papered in exquisite old-fashioned
                    patterns, while others have the delicate, harmonious tints supplied by casein. A
                    grandfather's clock stands in the hall and also two priceless cherry tables—one
                    a Pembroke with rope legs and an end drawer, and the other a Jenny Lind, beaded pattern, which
                    belonged to Mrs. Copeland's grandmother. The latter table was sold out of the family but
                    after forty-five years was found and bought back. An old wooden 
                        Boston
                     rocker extends hospitable arms; "Old Glory" is unfurled in a corner;
                    and the portrait of Mrs. Copeland's father, Dr. Lewis, a Union surgeon in the Civil War,
                    occupies a prominent place.
            The sitting-room is at the right of the hall. The tall wooden mantel first catches the eye with the
                    eight-day clock (a Birge-Gilbert & Co., 
                        Bristol
                    , 
                        Connecticut
                    ). This timepiece was once owned by Mrs. Copeland's grandmother and, like the
                    cherry table in the hall, was sold at a sale but returned to her father after thirty years'
                    exile. A Hamlet and Ophelia of Staffordshire ware share the honor of the mantel with other quaint
                    and priceless pieces of bric-a-brac.
            An Estey organ, the first one in 
                        Switzerland County
                    , is in one corner and a cherry corner cupboard in another. This is filled with patterns
                    of old glass—thumbprint, hob nail, sandwich, and thousand eyes. Some of this wonderful
                    old china, fragile though it is, has weathered almost a century. Cups and saucers and a luster
                    pitcher one hundred 
                  
                     1
                            Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1850, p. 4.
               
                     years old were imported from 
                        Scotland
                     as a wedding present for the parents of W. W. Spencer, a. former resident of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In another corner is an inlaid cherry chest with brass pulls and a large mirror framed
                    in cherry. A rose-back settee, roseback 
                        Boston
                     rocker, upholstered rocker, and old walnut chairs with needle-point cushions are
                    scattered about. There is also a little wooden rocker, inherited from the Doctor's family,
                    which has sturdily withstood many decades. All forms a picture worthy of a background for Godey
                    models. Curtains of Irish points are held back at the windows with quaint old metal pullbacks.
            A bedroom back of the sitting-room has a lovely four-poster cherry and maple corded bedstead and
                    large bureau with a small cherry dressing table and mirror. On the wall are family portraits and an
                    oval framed photograph of a graduating class from an 
                        Indianapolis
                     Baptist seminary. Opening from this room is a small den which contains a tulip
                    patterned daybed, bed clothes chest, sewing basket, and easy chairs. A window overlooks the river
                    view and makes the room a most cozy and restful place. A narrow hall connects the modern bathroom
                    with the den and dining-room. Wooden peg hangers are along the wall, as well as in the front hall,
                    like those in the old Shaker houses in 
                        Kentucky
                    . An ancient hair trunk bearing the date, 1850, was evidently "brought
                    over" in pioneer days.
            The dining-room, largest apartment in the house, has a Dutch cherry china cupboard on matching chest
                    and is full of lovely glass, china, and silver. A dropleaf cherry table, a card table, and twin
                    cherry tables of unusual patterns are also here. An old silver castor, ladled soup tureen, brass
                    kettles, and innumerable other attractive articles are here and there. The surgical instrument case
                    of rosewood with brass inlay, which belonged to Mrs. Copeland's father, occupies a
                    prominent place. Off the dining-room is the kitchen, also modern, very dainty and colorful with
                    white enameled equipment and bright red trimmings and curtains.
            The guest room is at the left of the front entrance with its high mantel, fireplace, Seth Thomas
                    clock, and bric-a-brac— each with an interest all its own. A cherry corded bedstead of
                    unusual design is the center of attraction with low head and footboard and a brightly colored oak
                    leaf quilt. Two or three chests, a dressing table with a mirror, and a  pedestal table—all of cherry—occupy this room. An
                    old Paisley shawl of the most fascinating harmonious colors is draped over a cedar chest, and a
                    ladder-back rocker and other chairs are grouped about. There is even a conch shell doorstep. Antique
                    mirrors, Currier and Ives sketches, Godey and English prints, wall brackets galore, and articles
                    "too numerous to mention," as the schoolboy essay says, complete the picture of
                    this lovely home where most of the furniture are museum pieces.
            The back porch has a cement floor of richly colored blocks with a quaint old settee, "Mammy
                    rocker," and attractive seats that tempt one to sit down and feast on the lovely view. The
                    lawn at the rear leads in terraces to the river bottom, and a stately sycamore lifts its lofty top
                    at the corner of the house like a plume at the back of a hat. The front lawn Is enclosed by an iron
                    fence and there is an old-time foot-scraper at the gate. A short paved walk leads to the broad stone
                    steps flanked by large stone flower urns. The attractive entrance has an upper transom and one on
                    each side of the door, the conventional pioneer architectural design. If the rear door happens to be
                    open as the visitor steps into the hall, he gets a magnificent view of the Ohio
                    River and the 
                        Kentucky
                     hills—a sort of backdrop to a picture more beautiful than an artist could
                    paint.
         
         
         
            William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society
            CAROLINE DUNN
            
            In the papers of Henry P. Thornton, an Indiana lawyer, which came to the Society last year as the
                    gift of his grandson, J. F. Thornton, are several printed and manuscript items concerning the
                    efforts of the veterans of the War of 1812 to obtain pensions for themselves and their families in
                    the decade from 1850 to 1860. Meetings, local, state, and national, were held agitating the subject;
                    resolutions were adopted and pressure was brought on Congress and other officials.
            At a meeting of citizens of central Indiana counties, held February 9, 1850, as described in a
                    newspaper clipping, Governor Wright spoke on the deeds of the frontier militia of 1812 and on the
                    right and need of the survivors and their families for aid. They, as well as the soldiers of the
                    Mexican War, should be remembered by a grateful country. The veterans passed resolutions stating
                    that the soldiers would require pledges of candidates for Congress and the legislature to use their
                    best efforts to secure a "grant from the National bounty."
            A national convention in 
                        Washington
                     in January, 1855, is reported in two other clippings. Here General Leslie Combs
                    delivered a stirring address on the deeds and sufferings of the soldiers of 1812 concluding,
                    "let us go before Congress now and ask for justice, not for charity, and if they refuse, we
                    will ‘meet them again at Phillippi.’ They shall hear our voices at the polls,
                    as loud as drums and trumpets, next election day, and in the Presidential campaign of
                    1856."
            April 6, 1857, the veterans of Lawrence County, Indiana, met in 
                        Bedford
                     and approved a memorial to Congress and appointed delegates to a state convention
                    called for June 18. Major Thornton was one of these delegates.
            Included in the material is a manuscript draft for a joint resolution of the Indiana legislature
                    urging passage by Congress of a bill on pensions.
            A state meeting and organization in 
                        Ohio
                     are described in an undated clipping. In addition to reminiscing and some political
                    bickering, here too resolutions were adopted, for, said one of the speakers, to many the
                    government's tardy  grant of land had come too late, in
                    old age they were without comforts, and the law should be amended, also, to provide for the widows
                    and orphans.
            Also in the collection are parts of two issues of The Old Soldier's
                    Advocate, which was issued in 
                        Cleveland
                     in 1859 and succeeding years and which gave news on pension legislation, interpretation
                    of the laws, and information on obtaining land warrants and pensions.
            The book purchase of recent months in which the library takes greatest delight is Sketches of 
                            Louisville
                         and its environs, by H. M'Murtrie, M.D., printed in 
                        Louisville
                     in 1819. The author seems well-informed and writes interestingly. He discusses the
                    geology and antiquities of the region, lists the flora, describes in considerable detail 
                        Louisville
                     and its development, 
                        New Albany
                    , 
                        Clarksville
                    , 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , and Wyandotte cave. He considers at length the proposed canals around the Falls and
                    strongly advocates one on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side. And he gives descriptive lists of Ohio River steamboats of
                    1812 to 1819 and of the earthquakes of 1811-1812. A frontispiece map shows the rapids in the river,
                    the falls and the adjoining land on both banks.
         
         
         
            Documents
            A HOOSIER SOLDIER IN THE BRITISH ISLES
            LAWRENCE C. MCFADDIN
            
            [Editor's Note—Our average reader may question the propriety of printing these
                    two little gems in a historical magazine, though surely no one would question the desirability of
                    having them in print. It seems, however, that history has come to be a very inclusive study, and
                    that there are those who believe that intellectual history is the very heart of all history. If this
                    is even approximately true, one need not explain the appearance of these items here.
            The experience of many an American in the British Isles during the present war may build a foundation
                    of friendship which will make impossible in the future the prejudice with which so many Americans
                    have regarded our English brethren in the past. A young man like Larry McFaddin cannot be influenced
                    by the cheap political practice of twisting the British Lion's tail as preceding
                    generations of Americans have been influenced. These delightful week-ends will long be remembered.
                    The kindness with which our boys have been treated can never be forgotten. May we not hope that a
                    tradition is being developed like that between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                     which will make war between the 
                        United States
                     and the British Isles impossible.
            The author enlisted when a junior at Indiana University December, 1942. He served in the Office of
                    Strategic Service in 
                        England
                     and recently has transferred to 
                        Germany
                    . The trip to 
                        Scotland
                     was made October 15-23, 1944, and the one to St. Ives, May 22-31, 1945. The letters
                    were written on a very old typewriter, the servicemen standing in line to use it and hurrying to
                    make way for others. None of the mistakes are serious, and the manuscript is printed without
                    change.]
            
                    SCOTLAND
                    Perhaps I should call it my "Highland Fling;" perhaps I shouldn't
                        attempt to title the past week. Regardless, it shall always be a memorable seven
                        days—a week of wonderful enjoyment and disassociation from the countless things that
                        make life seem complicated, in spite of their relative unimportance.
                    Monday, John Meloney and I were in 
                            London
                        , completely equipped for our trip to the North. We were to meet Fraser Stokes and
                        Don Dunbar later in the day. The day beginning our furloughs had arrived  suddenly, for it had been a furlough unexpected (but none the less
                        appreciated!) We had been warned numerous times by rugged Scotchmen of treacherous bogs in the
                        moors, blinding mists in the mountains, and dangerous ledges, and especially of the cold there
                        in 
                            Scotland
                        —all of the warnings only made the anticipation greater, and we sincerely
                        hoped we might scare up a ghost or two in an old castle!
                    I spent a short time with Hugh that morning and learned that he was planning a trip to Edinburg
                        later in the week. John and I then went to St. Jame's Palace to meet "Sir
                        Norman," (a title which he used only when formality necessitated it—he
                        preferred "Speedy"). We had a wonderful dinner at the
                        "Trocadero," just off Piccadilly Circus. He's a good
                        fellow—a nice sense of humor and a person who has had a great number of interesting
                        experiences all over the world. We spent several amusing minutes standing on the Circus (an
                        appropos name!) and watching the people, who never stopped passing by.
                    A couple of hours later we met Fraser and Don at the station and fortunately, got seats on the
                        train. The only part of the night I remember is, at each awakening, finding myself in a
                        different position, each more impossible than the previous. I had visions of never standing up
                        again! By morning we were well into 
                            Scotland
                        , for we had passed through Perth quite early. The Scots swear that the air is purer
                        right over the border, and somehow it did seem different. It was a beautiful
                        day—perhaps that alone accounted for the difference.
                    The country was already becoming pretty rugged, altho the real highlands were much farther north.
                        Already I could feel the barrenness of them, for from a distance they appear quite bald. We were
                        too late for the real autumn season—the heather had turned brown by frost and rain,
                        but there was a sober loveliness in the hills that somehow almost equaled the vivid colors of
                        early fall. The birch trees, which were sparce, however, were bright yellow, and the spruce, of
                        course, retained their year-round dark green. The hues here on th hills were very much
                        alive—the large ferns had turned a dark rust. We still were traveling on the Dee side
                        of the mountains.
                    We changed trains at 
                            Aviemore
                        , and in a few minutes were in Boat of Garten, the village of our destination.
                        It's a funny little town of two or three streets and very plain, but secure, looking
                        houses. Years ago, so the good folk said, there was a boat which made the crossing of the Spey
                        on which the town is located. Progress, however, caught up, and a bridge was built. The name
                        remained the same. Incidentally, we never discovered the bridge, and the river is much too
                        narrow to warrant much more than a canoe. We stopped at Mac-Donald's grocery to find
                        the way to Lynchurn, the home of Mrs. Grant, where we were to stay. The farm is half an
                        hour's walk from town past a little mill pond and a bakery. We had learned of Lynchurn
                        through Lady Ross and her daughter in 
                            Oxford
                        , for they often spent their vacations there.
                    The four of us stopped at a farm on the way, and apparently frightened the good farmer's
                        wife, for she disappeared and returned with husband, offspring, and Granny. In wonderful Scotch
                        brogue, Granny told us how to reach Mrs. Grant's. Our reception along the  road was mostly that of barking dogs, disinterested cows, and
                        friendly, but suspicious, glances from the people.
                    The farm house is way up on a hill—a beautiful spot. The river Spey runs through the
                        valley just below it, and for miles around you can see the ranges of the Cam Gorm [Cairngorm]
                        mountains. Mrs. Grant was at the door to meet us—such a wonderful little
                        person— friendly and amusing, a delightful small caricature: gracious with the gift
                        of real sincerity. She showed us first our sitting room—a nice comfortable room with
                        a wonderful fire in the hearth. Already I had fallen in love with the place. Our rooms upstairs
                        were lovely—two tremendously large rooms and one small one at the front of the house.
                        It seemed the windows only framed the view to the front. The tile washstands were classic, and
                        very lovely. However, I'll take my water hot! Which, by the way, I did; for we had our
                        own bath.
                    And speaking of this very essential room, I think the bathtub deserves special mention. It was
                        the biggest one I've ever seen—terrifically deep (speaking in relative
                        terms, of course!) and long enough to lie completely flat. Really a wonderful idea! Too bad most
                        of us are space-savers. And speaking again of essentials, the "W C" was
                        without doubt the coldest object upon which I have ever rested. There was no central heating,
                        and my teeth played a beautiful stacatto.
                    When we went down there were milk and gingerbread waiting for us—real
                        milk—that wonderful cow! It was the first glass I had drunk since leaving the States.
                        Soon afterward we had dinner—scotch broth, fried chicken, brussel sprouts, carrots,
                        two pitchers of milk—and hot gingerbread with cream so thick you had to help it along
                        with a spoon. That alone looked like paradise to us, and it was only the beginning. Fresh eggs
                        (I hadn't seen one for weeks!), lamb chops, steak, roast duck, more chicken, hot
                        deserts—all in our own dining room. Perhaps you can better understand our deep
                        affection for Lynchurn!
                    The first afternoon there, we dozed around the fire, had a delicious tea at 4:00 and dinner at
                        8:00 (by kerosene lantern!) Then we sat around the fire and talked for several hours. It was a
                        wonderful feeling of being completely away and yet closer to the things I consider priceless
                        than I had felt for weeks. We talked of home, of course, and for a few too short days Lynchurn
                        almost became home.
                    Wednesday morning we got up early, had a wonderful breakfast, and started out for Mt. Cam Gorm,
                        several miles away. In Aviemore we met a Mr. Mackay, who possessed the village taxi, and he
                        drove us to the hunting lodge at the foot of the mountain. The lodge itself is on Loch Morlich,
                        a lovely lake right up the mountains. From there we took the path along the stream which
                        followed a narrow ravine up the rise. The heather was thick there, and in some patches was still
                        bright purple. The climb itself after reaching a certain level becomes uninteresting unless you
                        look—stop every short while to look back. The view is beautiful—much too
                        lovely for my description. Far up on the peak we could see the snow and clouds which made the
                        top invisible. During the entire climb, as we looked back we could see a rainbow, which seemed
                        to begin in the loch and end at the foot of the mountain facing Cam Gorm. And yet, as we
                        watched, we could see it move slowly—it seemed to follow us up the mountain side. Far
                             below were the lodge and the loch—the black
                        aberdeen-angus cows appeared as small dots. Intermittently we got a little of the rain from the
                        storm we could see on a distant range. There the peaks were far more rugged and looked ugly and
                        dark.
                    A short distance from the top we stopped and looked at a curious formation of weathered stones.
                        The air was cold and the wind almost strong enough to knock one over. Apparently I had overrated
                        myself as a mountain climber—our pace had been swift, and I was completely winded.
                        The other three went ahead, and I liked the sensation of being alone there. It was that
                        wonderful sense of freedom and. complete, yet perhaps momentary, independence and at the same
                        time the feeing of utter insignificance. I ran several hundred yards down the slope to the pile
                        of stones. The wind was blowing so strongly that I could scarcely hear myself shout. I tried to
                        eat my lunch there, but my hands became numb. The sun on the levels below looked much better.
                    I went down a different way, disregarding the path and the stone trail markers. On one level were
                        dozens of clear springs on the mountain. The beds were of small quartz stones, and the water
                        clearer than I've ever seen. Strange how natural a thing water becomes; yet the water
                        [in] those springs actually tasted better than I've ever known. Farther down the slope,
                        I stopped at the loveliest spot there. The entire slope is covered with thick heather and ferns.
                        Directly below me, several hundred feet, was the stream we had followed. It was a wonderful
                        spot—the peak, no longer visible and no longer inviting, behind; the valley below;
                        and the mountains all around. I fell asleep on the heather a short time and was awakened by a
                        "pack" of congenial dogs followed by an elderly man. Farther down the trail
                        were another fellow and a horse. They were going up to bring down the two deer they had shot the
                        previous night.
                    It was an unforgettable day, and the beds at 
                            Lynchurn
                         seemed even softer.
                    Thursday Don left for Dufftown in search of some relatives. That morning we hiked along the Spey
                        and in the evening went up into the hills behind the farm to watch the sunset. The hills were
                        lighted up beautifully, and in an instant, when the sun disappeared behind the mountains in the
                        back, became dark and indiscernible. The clouds for several moments were lovely—and
                        suddenly dark and chilling.
                    The next day was rainy, in standard Scottish fashion, and we spent a lazy day inside, sleeping
                        and eating—in general doing a beautiful job of doing nothing.
                    Saturday we traveled up to Inverness, primarily to see a Mrs. Gooch, the grandmother of a Mary
                        Grant, whom we have known for some time. What a wonderful person she is—young to be a
                        grandmother. She's head of the Women's Volunteer Service in northern 
                            Scotland
                         and has recently flown back from the Shetlands on a governmental survey. Such an
                        active little person, drives with great enthusiasm, and doesn't miss a trick. She took
                        us to lunch and drove us out to her present home, Castle Hill House. First we drove up Moray
                        Firth towards the sea. We stopped at 
                            Culloden Moor
                        , the famous battle ground of Prince Charlie and some dozen Scottish clans.
                        "The Young Pretender" landed in western 
                            Scotland
                        , in his quest of the 
                        "rightful" inheritance of the English throne and fought across the country to
                        this spot, high above Inverness. Apparently the Grant clan played a smart game and watched the
                        battle closely before choosing sides. And from the grave markers were quite successful.
                        Apparently the Macintoshes were extremely vulnerable! Incidentally, Prince Charlie slept in
                        Castle Hill House the night before the battle. That was in the 1770's.1
               
                    At Castle Hill we met Mary's great-grandmother, who is 96 years old. She is truly a
                        remarkable person. I sometimes feel my mind is less alert than hers is now. She was determined
                        to learn our names and homes, for she expects us to pay a visit again. She told me how clearly
                        she remembered seeing the troops leave Edinburg Castle for the Crimean war, in 1850's.
                        We also met Mrs. Gooch's sister and a charming Miss Ellis. I've never seen
                        such vitality in a woman her age—she had just been stag hunting the day before. We
                        had tea with them in their lovely old home and then Mrs. Gooch drove us to our train. Her
                        son-in-law is the Grant who owns such great tracts of land and several homes in Inverness Shire.
                    One doesn't have the opportunity to meet people like these often. My contacts here have
                        been so wonderful, [I] shall never forget them. One can't easily forget the cordiality
                        and friendliness we've received here in 
                            England
                         and 
                            Scotland
                        . I particularly like the Scotch people—the way they laugh, their
                        frankness and complete friendliness.
                    Sunday morning we hiked through the pine forests behind the farm. We walked through them just as
                        the sun started slanting in. It was so lovely, it seemed almost a sacrilege to make any kind of
                        noise. The ground was covered with thick moss growing through the years' carpet of pine
                        needles. That afternoon we left—for all good things must end, and spent the night in
                        Perth.
                    We arrived in 
                            Edinburg
                         Monday morning and had made arrangements to leave on the night train to 
                            London
                        . John left in search of a friend, and Fraser and I first walked up to Edinburg
                        Castle. It was a good climb, for the massive castle is located on a steep hill, approachable
                        from one direction, with three sheer bluffs on the other sides. The history of the castle is
                        quite interesting, and, of course, I know but a sketch. The first parts are over nine centuries
                        old; yet the castle, through the strife of 
                            England
                         and 
                            Scotland
                        , has been sieged and sacked, and each time rebuilt. The entrance is through the
                        courtyard in front—on which square public executions took place and witches were
                        burned at the stake hundreds of years ago. Then across the old moat and up the winding stairs to
                        the top. From here one can get a truly beautiful view of Edinburg, a city of spires and shrines.
                        At the highest part of the castle stands the tiny chapel built by St. Margaret, Queen, in the
                        11th century. Under the altar lie her remains—she died upon hearing of the death of
                        her husband and son. By far the most interesting to me was a small plot of ground jutting out
                        rather precariously from the castle side. Here is the "Soldier's 
                     
                        1 This is obviously an error. Prince Charlie, the Young Pretender,
                                landed on the west coast of 
                                    Scotland
                                , July 25, 1745. He was defeated at 
                                    Culloden Moor
                                , April 16, 1746.
                  
                         Dogs' Burying Ground." The Scottish War
                        Memorial within the castle is a beautiful shrine. The coats of arms are so vivid and bright, the
                        atmosphere so light and reverent.
                    From the castle we walked along the famous "High" to Calton Hill, on which
                        stand Nelson's Tower, the Observatory, and the Scots-mans' Disgrace."
                        (A building begun modelled after Athen's Parthenon and discontinued through lack of
                        funds.) On the way we stopped at an old cemetery where are buried many of 
                            Scotland
                        's illustrious. At the foot of a rather ostentatious tomb, I saw a small
                        white stone, carved in the shape of a heart. On it were inscribed the words: "Here lies
                        sweet 
                            Marion
                        , asleep." I remember it above all the others; yet who 
                            Marion
                         was, to whom death came so soon, I shall never know.
                    From there we walked to the Royal Palace of Holyroodhouse, the palace in 
                            Scotland
                         for the royal family, who, by the way, had been there a fortnight previously.
                        According to legend, it was built in recognition of luck while hunting during the days of
                        Arthur. We walked through Mary Queen of Scots audience chambers, bedroom, and dressing rooms.
                        Mary's bed, one of the few remaining pieces of furniture, looked terribly
                        uncomfortable! As did her husband's, Lord Darnley. (Modern psychologists say this
                        two-bedroom business definitely leads to marital dischord!)
                    The remains of the royal chapel are quite impressive and very lovely. They are of 
                            Norman
                         architecture of the 12th century. The roof is no longer there, for it disappeared
                        when Cromwell burned the palace. However, ancient stone lattice work is still standing. The
                        floor is nothing but tomb markers. On the floor also were several stone caskets, and for the
                        first time, I knew what tomb, stone-cold, meant.
                    After leaving the castle we walked up some funny little side streets and stopped in a Scotch
                        Tartan shop to look at some plaids. Apparently the McFaddin clan set up permanent residence in 
                            Ireland
                        , for none seem to exist in northern 
                            Scotland
                         now. The closest I could find was the MacLean Clan, of which MacFayden is a part.
                        In any case, "our" plaid is very colorful. I still can't visualize
                        myself in a kilt, although I saw dozens of them. Fraser and I met John for tea. Could it be that
                        I'm becoming a synthetic Britisher, demanding my tea at 4:00, pouring the milk first
                        and feeling indignant if the milk isn't hot?
                    Later, we met Don and boarded the train for rainy 
                            London
                        . Yes, a good week. A nice week to remember. …
                    ST. IVES
                    "As I was going to S. Ives …," I met no polygomist, but rather a
                        number of people who must have known the charms of Cornwall which I was to discover. The night
                        train was slow, but time was not important then, for I had eight days ahead—eight
                        days which were completely mine. My first glimpse of the sea came when we entered 
                            Plymouth
                        , the city which, a year prevíously, had seen hundreds of ships leaving
                        for the invasion of the continent. It was early and grey and cold, and the water of the channel
                        wasn't any color. A few hours later we reached St. Erth, a small Cornish inland
                        village, just west of the pirate's playground of Penzance. There I caught a wonderful
                        little  two car train, bound for the coast … a
                        little two car train with a holiday whistle.
                    In ten minutes, St. Ives was in view, a toy village on a peninsula stretching out into the sea.
                        The Gulf Stream is blue, but St. Ive's Bay was bluer that day. Blue, and sunny, and
                        beautiful. Pedn Olva, our hotel, was just a short walk from the small station. I had hoped that
                        it would be near the water; that perhaps we could get a glimpse of the sea from there. I never
                        expected a lovely place, built right in the rocks—the foundation of which was washed
                        by the tides. Yet, there it was, facing the sea, on the sea. I had a late breakfast in the
                        lounge; yet as hungry as I was, I sat and looked out the bay window at the water, and the beach
                        below. The sun was out, and the boats were sailing—and 
                            London
                         seemed a million miles away.
                    Bill had arrived earlier that morning and was already somewhere below, on the rocks, sunning
                        himself. Our room overlooked the harbor. Beyond 'St. Ives we could see the Atlantic,
                        and straight down were rocks and the sea. Three miles out in the bay was the lighthouse on a
                        small island. I stood by the window and looked, knowing there could be no other place the same.
                        Then I climbed down to the beach to look for Willy … it was difficult to walk, when I
                        wanted to run. The sand was soft and fine, and the tide was beginning to come in, each wave
                        reaching a little farther up the beach.
                    Our table in the dining room was in a small bay window, overlooking the garden in the back of the
                        hotel. Beyond the garden and below were the beach and the water. Flowers on the table, a pitcher
                        of ice-water (Londoners never drink water!) and excellent meals, usually topped with fresh
                        strawberries and cream. The view alone was worth the sitting there, but the food made it even
                        more attractive. After coffee in the lounge that first day, we embarked upon a week of contented
                        laziness, which, unfortunately, didn't end with the expiration date of my furlough
                        papers. The entire afternoon we sat on the beach, wondering if our good luck in finding this
                        spot were true. Unknowingly (undoubtedly stimulated by the sea air) I went dashing down the hot
                        sand into the water. I emerged, dripping, and a ghastly shade of blue. Never have I been in such
                        freezing water. The effect was even more colorful the next day when I blossomed forth a
                        brilliant lobster red.
                    Tea was each afternoon at 4:00—how delightful it was to sit on the terrace and think
                        of nothing except how delightful it was! I longed for some color film to capture the scenes
                        which can never be written on paper. The small garden is enclosed by immense lilac bushes and
                        flowers grow up and down the rocks and walls of the terrace. The boats in the harbor were blue,
                        and red, green and orange—wonderfully happy looking.
                    Early each morning after breakfast we would wander down the hill to the wharf. Narrow, little
                        streets with gay little houses—white ones, blue, yellow, and green. From a distance,
                        St. Ives looked strangely colorless in contrast with the sea. Yet in the streets was the
                        color—yards full of roses, brightly colored doors with polished knockers. And in the
                        grey, drab streets were colorful children. There were no plain children there, for they all
                        seemed to have curly hair, and blue eyes—and inquisitive faces. How strange it is
                        that these children will mature  into the plain old women
                        who sit on the waterfront and knit vests, and men who fish at night and sleep through the days.
                    Each morning we would stop on the wharf to watch the fishermen bring in the night's
                        catch. The tide was out at that time of day, and a little one-horse cart brought the fish to the
                        dock from the boats, lying absurdly awkward in the sand. St. Ives was more alive in early
                        morning than any other time. The fish, skates, crabs, and lobsters, after being weighted were
                        sold there on the wharf to the highest bidder. Housewives seemed to be in the majority, but the
                        lobsters were carried away by the owners of the littled cafes that lined the waterfront. After
                        the auction, only the cats seemed to remain feasting on fish heads—the fishermen went
                        off to bed, and the wives took the day's food home.
                    "… each wife had seven bags; each bag had seven cats; each cat had seven
                        kittens." I'm sure that those cats have been reproducing prodifiously ever
                        since that Cornish verse was first composed. Hundreds of cats—in the windows in the
                        doors, in the shops, in the boats—everywhere cats. They all seemed quite well pleased
                        with themselves and their stations in life. Even the dogs in St. Ives appeared to enjoy
                        themselves more than dogs anywhere else. Centuries ago they must have tired of chasing cats. A
                        nondescript pack of them played each morning on the beach, charging the waves and kicking up the
                        sand.
                    In addition to being a fishing village, St. Ives is an artists' colony. In almost every
                        street were artists, sitting and painting scenes which were offered no where else in 
                            England
                        . The second day we came across an elderly painter, quite at home sitting in a
                        rowboat painting a harbor scene. The shops were full of watercolors, and oils, lovely and
                        expensive. During our week in the village, we visited, I think, every gallery there.
                    At ten o'clock each morning, we could be found at the Shore Cafe, drinking hot chocolate
                        and eating ice-cream. After two or three days it became a ritual, and at the stroke of ten,
                        we'd head for the little room upstairs, over looking the bay. After lunch each day we
                        sprawled- in the sun, a glorious English sun which, for the first, time, warmed me completely.
                        The days, which went so quickly, were difficult to distinguish one from [the] other. However,
                        though their patterns were almost identical, their designs were quite different. Each part of
                        each day there was something new to see, and, if not different, to be enjoyed again.
                    On the wharf in St. Ives is a magnificent pub. Countless are the "King's
                        Arms," "Dog and Badgers," "Running Horses,"
                        "Duke's Head," "Little White Harts," and
                        "Red Lions"—but there is only one "The Sloop,"
                        and it is in St. Ives. The ceilings slant, as in a ship's cabin—closing time
                        is the ringing of a ships bell. Great oceans of mild and bitters flowed each night there, where
                        gathered the town's illustrious. Adorning the walls of the largest room in the pub, are
                        caricatures of the best known people in the village. What fun it was to sit there, with a glass
                        of ale, and spot the people whose pictures were on the walls; the whiskered old fisherman, the
                        bartender, the village fish dealer, the funny old woman who sat and screamed"
                        'ello mi love," at each newcomer.
                    Centuries ago, an Irish saint by the name of Ives, sailed from the Emerald Isle on a shamrock. He
                        landed on this tip of Cornwall and  built a chapel on the
                        highest hill there. This building, reconstructed some years ago, still stands, viewing the town
                        and the ocean. The hill on which it stands is called "The Island." A long time
                        ago the sea washed over a part of the peninsula and isolated the hill—perhaps
                        believing that in some future time the sea again will do the same, the people have never stopped
                        referring to this piece of land as "The island." From the top can be seen the
                        Atlantic Ocean, St. Ives Bay, and the Irish Sea. Miles of ocean—blue sea, and rocks,
                        and white foam … hilly St. Ives and Carbis Bay, leading to rhodedendron covered hills
                        behind.
                    After lying contentedly in the sun for several hours after lunch, we would climb back up to the
                        hotel for tea at four o'clock. This tea was usually augmented by another one at
                        "The Copper Kettle" at four thirty—toasted scones, and bisquits,
                        and jam. By early evening, the tide was well in, and the boats began to prepare for the
                        night's fishing. All this we watched from the small tea room, which also faced the
                        harbor. Then back up the narrow hilly street we'd go to Pedn Olva, dinner, and watching
                        the sunset from the terrace.
                    We didn't do much—there wasn't time to take the side trips to
                        Land's End and Penzance as we had originally planned. A week was much too short a time
                        to be in paradise. Seven days were much too brief to hear enough of the waves at night, or see
                        the boats sailing out with high tide and moonlight. Early in the morning, even before the gulls
                        started screaming for day, I would sit up in bed and see the fishing boats returning. There
                        weren't enough hours to feed the gulls, and watch them swoop down to catch bits of
                        bread tossed in the air. Now, as I look out of the window and see the Rhine, Cornwall and St.
                        Ives seem even farther away, more as if I remember them from an early imagination and not from
                        having been there. Perhaps it was a continental fascination, a likeness to the Riviera which
                        people claim exists, that made it so attractive. That I can't say. I only know it was
                        different from the rest of 
                            England
                         I knew. I feel as if it will retain an individuality which can belong to no other
                        place. Sometime I'll go back just to know it's still there and the same, as it
                        has always been. …
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Lincoln Bibliography, 1839-1939, 2 vols., compiled by Jay Monaghan (Collections of the 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library, vols. XXXI, XXXII, 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               ,
                    1943, 1945, pp. xlv, 519, xi, 560. $5.00.)
            "This scholarly and elaborate bibliography appears at a time when it may be said that the
                    Lincoln subject as an intellectual interest has come of age." These words from the foreword
                    written by J. G. Randall, Lincoln scholar and professor at the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , rightly evaluate these volumes. The development of the great Lincoln collections of
                    books and pamphlets and the rules which the collectors have adopted are discussed by the compiler in
                    the introduction.
            The bibliography includes books and pamphlets, but not magazines or newspapers. If the magazine as a
                    whole or a special issue is devoted to Lincoln, it is included. Magazine articles are not listed,
                    unless reprinted as separate pamphlets. Titles have been arranged chronologically, and
                    alphabetically under each year. There is one exception and this is somewhat difficult to appreciate.
                    Later editions follow the original entry and thus do not appear under the year of their publication.
                    More than one-fourth of the entries under 1863 were not published in that year but in later years as
                    recent as 1936.
            Much interesting information may be acquired from these volumes. Some six hundred publications about
                    or by Lincoln appeared before 1865, and in the year of his death 563 are listed, quite a number
                    being sermons preached following his death. Interest in Lincoln must have declined very quickly and
                    sharply for only three items are given in 1869 and only one in 1871. In the 1890's and
                    early 1900's interest revived and in the centennial year of his birth 258 separate
                    publications are noticed. Approximately a half hundred entries are included in each succeeding year.
                    The peak was reached in the years 1927-1930 when over eighty are found each year. In a separate list
                    over two hundred foreign publications are given.
            A very noticeable point is the very small number of contributions by scientifically trained
                    historians. Very few of the professors of history in our colleges and universities have contributed
                    this type of Lincoln literature. The authors who occupy the most space in the index, which is only a
                    rough measure of output, are Emanuel Hertz, William E. Barton, Louis A. Warren, and Paul M. Angle.
                    The earlier Lincoln authorities have many fewer titles. Perhaps the inclusion of articles in learned
                    society periodicals would bring in more of the work of university men, but the fact remains that
                    there is no other field in American history which they have so consistently avoided. Perhaps the
                    appearance of this work may serve to enlist their labor.
            The chief significance of this work, however, is as a guide to Lincoln literature, a guide for all
                    types of persons interested in Lincoln. The 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library has rendered the historical world a distinct service in a
                    highly creditable manner.
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
         
            
               The Diary of A Public Man, An Intimate View of the National Administration, December
                        28, 1860 to March 15, 1861, and A Page of Political Correspondence, Stanton to Buchanan.
                    Prefatory Notes by F. Lauriston Bullard, Foreword by Carl Sandburg (
                        Chicago
                    , Abraham Lincoln Book Shop, 1945, pp. xi, 117. $10.00.)
            This little volume is pre-eminently a fine book. Its design and typography are due to Norman W.
                    Forgue, the hand decorated paper employed for binding was made by R. Hunter Middleton, the typefaces
                    used are Linotype Baskerville and Monotype Ultra Bodoni, and the edition was printed at the 
                        Norman
                     Press on Cortlea ivory paper. The number of copies was limited to 500, apparently,
                    designed particularly for Lincoln collectors. It is a beautiful production, and each copy is
                    enclosed in a protective slip-case.
            Carl Sandburg in his brief foreword declares the book "has history and mystery."
                    Bullard in his prefatory notes does not attempt to identify the "Public Man," but
                    does tell us quite a little about the North American Review, in which the
                    "Diary" first appeared, and about its editor, Allen Thorndike Rice, who refused to
                    reveal the author. Facts about the period covered by the diary and about prominent men are given.
                    Nine letters of Edwin M. Stanton to James Buchanan written between March 14, and July 26, 1861, are
                    included. They contain very pessimistic predictions about the Lincoln administration and items that
                    would "cheer or gratify" the former President. Like the "Diary,"
                    they had been published in the North American Review.
            
            The whole procedure leaves one feeling as though he were all dressed up with no place to go. We do
                    not learn the identity of the author or to what extent the contents are trustworthy. In fact,
                    historians need to be warned that a fairly good case can be presented for forgery. One will not,
                    however, be harsh with anyone for not producing the name of the diarist, indeed, Mr. Bullard
                    suggests "if this ‘Diary’ is in fact a fake, it has full right to be
                    pronounced an—almost—perfect crime." Perhaps the volume was intended
                    to stimulate the search for the missing author, or to induce Professor Frank Maloy Anderson to
                    publish the result of his study. It was unfortunate his findings could not have been included.
            The "Diary" is "a series of extracts" supposedly written between
                    December 28, 1860, and March 15, 1861. It contains very interesting and provocative stories, gossip,
                    and incidents, which presumably passed through 
                        Washington
                     political circles just before the outbreak of the Civil War. There is just enough to
                    whet the appetite, and to give one a vivid idea of the perplexing problems which confronted Lincoln
                    as he came into the presidency.
            The solution of the mystery, the identity of the author, can become a lifetime passion or a side
                    issue for Lincoln collectors, college professors, or anyone intrigued by the search for truth.
         
         
            
               Some of the Earliest Oaths of Allegiance to the 
                            United States
                         of America. By Nellie Protsman Waldenmaier. (Privately Printed, 1944, pp. v,
                    93. $3.50)
            Nellie Waldenmaier is first and foremost a genealogist, and as such her approach to a discussion of oaths of allegiance to the infant revolutionary state colors
                    the materials with which she has dealt. She has not distorted anything she has used, nor has she
                    misrepresented anything. Her introduction and text, however, are too summary and too disjointed to
                    be very useful to the historian. Her work is little more than a brief survey of the various oaths
                    (not only to the United States, but to various offices as well of which certain men were then the
                    incumbents) taken in the three years prior to 1779.
            Fifteen pages are devoted to explanation; the remainder of the book is a list of signers of oaths.
                    The lists are compiled from the originals in the National Archives and the Library of Congress. The
                    compiler's chief interest seems to be in providing a list of men hereby proved to have participated
                    in the American Revolution. She has included some interesting facsimiles of various types of oaths.
                    As a handbook of signers it is very useful; as a historical study of the oaths and their background
                    it falls short of the ideal.
            It is the genealogist primarily, not the historian, who presided over the compiling and writing of
                    this book. Her enthusiasms sometimes overreach themselves: "The usefulness of the material
                    in these oaths in genealogical research far exceeds the bare fact that a given individual
                    ‘took and subscribed’ the oath on a certain day. The existence of a man's name
                    in this roster of patriots in indisputable evidence that he was a person trusted by the Continental
                    Congress."
            The author, too, has a tendency to see nothing but high resolve and noble purpose in the actions of
                    the men of the American Revolution. In her mind they all took oaths because of
                    idealism and not to ensure holding a post. To her "They are unequivocal endorsement of the
                    action of the fifty-six men who signed the Declaration of Independence and for that, if for no other
                    reason, they are deserving of our most respectful attention." Sidney George Fisher, to
                    mention but one of many, would undoubtedly take exception to this viewpoint. The inclusion of the
                    name of Benedict Arnold, as an early signer of the oaths now reposing in the National Archives,
                    seems to shatter Nellie Waldenmaier's thesis at the outset.
            Robert H. Irrmann
         
         
            
               Coimate of Indiana. By Stephen Sargent Visher. (Indiana University, Bloomington,
                    Indiana, c. 1944, pp. 511. $4.00)
            Encyclopedia of Indiana Climate might have been the title given to this volume, for it is very
                    inclusive. It treats not only the major topics, but it analyzes them into their more minute parts
                    and describes these small subjects. For instance under precipitation the following divisions receive
                    attention: seasonal, monthly average, weekly average, daily, and hourly precipitation. Under climate
                    there is a chapter describing the "Climate of Seven Legal Holidays." Large amounts
                    of statistical data are included. Scattered through the five hundred pages are 486 maps and charts
                    and 81 tables. Consequently, it is quite likely that it will be used as a reference book rather than
                    as general reading. In many parts it is very interesting, in others somewhat heavy and dull.
            The work begins with a summary, followed by four chapters on 
                    temperature; five on precipitation; one each on floods, humidity, and sunshine and clouds; three on
                    storms; one each on seasons, weather types, holiday climates, and climatic changes; four on
                    relations of climate and physiography, crop yields, and health; and finally, three chapters which
                    treat the climate of the subregions and cities of the state.
            Quite a little of the book uses the threefold division of the state into northern, central, and
                    southern thirds, but these thirds are not described or mapped. The author is probaably exact in his
                    use of these and similar terms, but it would be helpful to have them defined. The author shows a
                    tendency to be satisfied with approximations, as in describing figures 361, 362, 169, and 221. For
                    mote readers the climographs in chapter twenty-three should be explained for they are very
                    complicated and unintelligible to the readers without specialized training. These are minor items
                    and are easily offset by generalizations like the following:The regional
                        contrasts in rainfall intensity clearly help to explain the sharp southward increase in soil
                        erosion, and therefore in ruggedness. The greater runoff induced by the greater intensity and
                        slope at the south results not only in poorer soil but also in drier soil, as little rapidly
                        running water soaks in. The greater rainfall intensity helps to cause the smaller crop yields,
                        the smaller fraction of the land used for crops, and the average greater property of the people
                        in southern Indiana.
            
            The historian will be interested in knowing what progress has been made in correlating climate and
                    history. This work lays the foundation in that it describes in detail the climate of Indiana, but it
                    does not go very far beyond that. The chapters on health and crops offer some suggestions, but
                    fundamentally the correlation remains to be done, in fact, it seems to be outside the scope which
                    the author set for himself.
            The book should have a wide appeal for every one knows something about and is interested in various
                    phases of the weather. Copies of it will be very useful in newspaper offices, school libraries, and
                    public and private libraries generally.
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            MOUSER-SCHMIDLAPP GENEALOGY
            Contributed by MRS. SYLVAN L. MOUSER
            
            Although this genealogy begins in 
                        Germany
                    , it is principally concerned with the American descendants of the Mouser and Schmidlapp
                    families, part of whom settled in 1817 in 
                        Miami
                     Township, 
                  Hamilton County, Ohio
               , and in 1830 in 
                        Jefferson County
                    , Indiana.
            
               I 1 John David Schmidlapp, direct descendant of Jacob and Veronika Schmidlapp who resided in 
                            Stuttgart
                        , Württemberg, 
                            Germany
                        , prior to 1593; b. before 1695; schoolteacher and potter in 
                            Tiefenbach
                        , Württemberg; m. twice with no known children, m. 3rd—?
                        6-2-1716, and had 10 children; 2nd son John David II, other names unknown (youngest b.
                        7-6-1738).
               II 1 John David Schmidlapp II, s. of I, 1; b. Tiefenbach, 5-20-1719; r. Klaybrun (near
                        Stuttgart); m. 1st at 
                            Klaybrun
                         c. 1744 —?, no children, m. 2nd 4-27-1762, Margareth Danmelhubevin;
                        children: a, John David III, b, Johannas.
               III 1 John David Schmidlapp III, s. of II, 1; b. c. 1764, Klaybrun; r. 1817 to Miami Twp., 
                            Hamilton
                         Co., 
                            Ohio
                        ; m. 1st c. 1790, Klaybrun —–?; children: a, John David IV, b,
                        Johanna Margareth, c, Caleb, d, Jacob Frederick; m. 2nd widow Mrs. Christine Flinchpaugh
                        (Flinspach) Mower (also sp. Mauer, Mowerer, Maurer) between 1810-17 Klaybrun (she already had
                        son Jacob Frederick Mower by 1st husband); children: e. Wilhelmina.
               2 Johannas Schmidlapp, s. of II, 1; b. 6-5-1770, Klaybrun; d. 4-25-1839, Wurttemberg; m.
                        Dorothea Sofner; b. 6-11-1778; d. 11-19-1848, Wurttemberg; children: a, John David, b, Christine
                        Frederick, c, Jacob Adam, d, Christine Catherine, e, John Gottfried, f, John Matthew, g, son
                        name unknown.
               IV 1 John David Schmidlapp IV, s. of III, 1; b. Klaybrun, 12-28-1791; r. 1827/8 to Miami Twp., 
                            Hamilton
                         Co., O., 1837 to 
                            Hanover
                         Twp., Jefferson Co., Ind.; d. 3-20-1868, buried Butler-Wooley Cem., Jefferson Co.,
                        Ind.; m. c. 1816, Klaybrun, Sophia Baer; b. 2-19-1790; d. 1-29-1872; sister of Christiana Baer
                        (1784-1872); children: a, David, b, Frederick, c, Christiana Barbara, d, John Christopher, e,
                        Johanna Marguerite, f, Mary, g, Henry.
               2 Johannah Margareth Schmidlapp, dau. of III, 1; b. c. Klaybrun, 1794; r. Miami Twp., 
                            Hamilton
                         Co., O.; d. 10-1-1863; m. 1817 
                            Lancaster
                        , Pa., en route to 
                            Ohio
                        , Henry Flinchpaugh (relative of step-mother, see III, 1); b. 3-9-1792; d.
                        10-7-1852; children: a, David, b, Henry, c, Hannah, d, Mary, e, Caleb,  f, Jacob, g, William, h, Harriet, i, John, and 3 names unknown d.
                        infancy.
               3 Caleb Schmidlapp, s. of III, 1; b. Klaybrun, 10-28-1798; r. 1817 to O., with father; 1830 to
                        Jefferson Co., Ind.; d. 3-30-1876, 
                            Madison
                        , Ind.; buried 
                            Fairmount
                         Cem.; m. 
                            Hamilton
                         Co., O., Sarah Celestine Rapp; b. 
                            Germany
                        ; d. 6-18-1896, 
                            Madison
                        , Ind.; children: a, William, b, Frances, c, Julia, d, Caleb, e, Charles, f, Lewis,
                        g, Caroline, h, dau. name unknown, i, John D., j, Jennie.
               4 Jacob Frederick Schmidlapp, s. of III, 1; b. 1801, Klaybrun; r. 1817 to 
                            Hamilton
                         Co., O., with father; d. 3-7-1831; buried 
                            Fairmount
                         Cem., 
                            Madison
                        , Ind.; m. 11-25-1826, 
                            Hamilton
                         Co., O. Martha Ann Raye; b. 1801; d. 1833. No known descendants.
               5 Wilhemlina Schmidlapp, dau. of III, 1 and 2nd wife; b. c. 1818, Miami Twp., 
                            Hamilton
                         Co., O.; d. after 1882; m. 3-7-1839, Andrew Ulmer; r. 
                            Cincinnati
                        ; children: a, Charles, b, Henry, c, Julia, d, Mary, e, Louis, f, Frances, g,
                        Josephine, h, Ida.
               6 John David Schmidlapp, s. of III, 2; b. 7-12-1806; d. 12-5-1885, Württemberg.
               7 Christine Frederick Schmidlapp, dau. of III, 2; b. 2-25-1807/9; d, 2-6-1867,
                        Württemberg.
               8 Jacob Adam Schmidlapp, s. of III, 2; b. 2-9-1812, Klaybrun; r. 1827/8 to 
                            Hamilton
                         Co., O., 1832 to Piqua, O.; d. 7-16-1876, Piqua; m. 5-2-1836, Piqua, Sophia
                        Frederick Haug; b. 7-29-1818, 
                            Germany
                        ; d. 1886, Piqua; children: a, Johannas Jacob, b, William David, c, Charles (Carl
                        Christopf), d, Theodore Fredrich, e, Jacob Godfrey, f, Emma Wilhelmina, g, son d. infancy, h,
                        Louis H. (Ludwig Heinrich).
               9 Christine Catherine Schmidlapp, dau. of III, 2; b. 1814; d. 
                            Germany
                        .
               10 John Gottfried Schmidlapp, s. of III, 2; b. 3-19-1819, Klaybrun; m. and r. 
                            Germany
                         until 1844, then to America.
               11 John Matthew Schmidlapp, s. of III, 2; b. 11-28-1821, 
                            Germany
                        ; r. 1853 to Piqua, O.
               V 1 David Schmidlapp, s. of IV, 1; b. c. 1818, Klaybrun; d. 1870; r. 
                            Louisville
                        , 
                            Ky.
                        ; m. Catherine Gaumer; children: a, Katie, b, Sally, c, Tilly.
               2 Frederick Schmidlapp, s. of IV, 1; b. Württemberg; d. before 1892, Jefferson Co.,
                        Ind.; m. Jefferson Co., Ind., Lucy Leland; d. after 1892; sister of Simeon Leland; children: a,
                        Sophia, b, John, c, Mary, d, Caleb, e, Thomas Jefferson, f, Abraham Lincoln.
               3 Christiana Barbara Schmidlapp, dau. of IV, 1; b. Marbrun (near Stuttgart), 
                            Wurttemberg
                        , 
                            Germany
                        , 4-15-1822; r. 1827/8 to 
                            Hamilton
                         Co., O.; 1837 to Jefferson Co., Ind.; m. Jefferson Co., Ind., 8-23-1842, Jacob
                        Mouser (sp. Mauser in 
                            Germany
                        ); b. 4-22-1815, near 
                            Heidelberg
                        , 
                            Baden
                        , 
                            Germany
                        ; r. 1832 to 
                            Hanover
                         Twp., Jefferson Co., Ind.; d. 10-23-1880; buried Smyrna Pres. Cem.; bro. of Anna
                        Mauser Rein (1809-1836) of Oeschingen, Württemberg, 
                            Germany
                        . (Christiana was 2nd wife of  Jacob Mouser. His
                        1st wife was—Tiser who d. childbirth. Their only child d. birth.) Children: a, Jacob
                        David, b, Mary Sophia, c, John G., d, Katherine, e, Indiana 
                            California
                        , f, Jacob, Jr., g, Benjamin Franklin, h, Ada Virginia, i, Lesette Olympia, j,
                        William Caleb, k, Clara Malinda, 1, Eliza Rebecca, m, Alonzo Clinton, n, Olive Martha.
               4 John Christopher Schmidlapp, s. of IV, 1; b. 10-22-1825, Württemberg; r. 1837, 
                            Hanover
                         Twp., Jefferson Co., Ind.; d. 2-28-1884; buried Butler-Wooley Cem.; m. Jefferson
                        Co., Ind., 4-13-1853, Mary Magdalena Kunkel; b. 3-7-1836, 
                     Greencastle, Germany
                  ; r. 1838 to
                        America, 1843 to Ind.; d. 7-19-1914; sister of Sophia Kunkel Suter; children: a, Carrie, b, John
                        Charles Freemont, c, Emma Sofia, d, William, e, Kathryne, f, Mathilda, g, Edward Frederick, h,
                        Harry Lewis, i, Oscar Perry,.j, Ida Wynona.
               5 Johanna Marguerite Schmidlapp, dau. of IV, 1; b. 5-29-1827, Württemberg; d.
                        12-20-1913, Jefferson Co., Ind.; buried Zoar M.E. Cem.; m. George Trinkle; b. 5-10-1823, 
                            Stuttgart
                        , 
                            Germany
                        ; d. 8-26-1904, 
                            Jefferson County
                        , Ind.; children: a, John Wesley, b, George W., c, David B., d, Louis N., e, Henry
                        Caleb, f, Amanda J., g, Charles A., h, Catherine, i, Luella C, j, Willie M., k, Harvey Wiley.
               6 Mary Schmidlapp, dau. of IV, 1; b. aboard ship en route to America early 1828; d.c. 1853,
                        Jefferson Co., Ind.; m. Peter Becker (she was his 1st wife); children: a, Mary G.
               7 Henry Schmidlapp, s. of IV, 1; b. 8-9-1833, 
                            Hamilton
                         Co., O.; r. 
                            Hanover
                         Twp., Jefferson Co., Ind., from 1837; d. 8-8-1882; buried Smyrna Pres. Cem.; m. c.
                        1861, Rosa Siegel; b. 3-5-1841, 
                            Stuttgart
                        , 
                            Germany
                        ; d. 4-2-1885, Jeferson Co., Ind.; children: a, John D., b, Caleb Henry, c, Lydia
                        Sophia, d, Charles, e, Clara C, f, William, g, Josephine, h, Edward.
               8 David Flinchpaugh, s. of IV, 2; b. 
                            Hamilton
                         Co., O., 1818; r. 
                            Ohio
                        ; m. 1st Maria Fleming; no children; m. 2nd Margaret Lope; children: a, David, Jr.
               9 Henry Flinchpaugh, s. of IV, 2; b. c. 1820, 
                            Hamilton
                         Co., O.; m. Cynthia Creech, sister of William (see V, 10); children: a, Harriet, b,
                        Morgan, c, John.
               10 Hannah Flinchpaugh, dau. of IV, 2; m. William Creech, bro. of Cynthia (see V, 9); children:
                        a, Henry, b, Charles, c, William, d, Eliza, e, Cynthia, f, Harriet, g, Jesse, h, Emory, i, name
                        unknown.
               11 Mary Flinchpaugh, dau. of IV, 2; m. Frederick Ulmer; children: a, Eliza, b, Louise, c,
                        Harriet Ellen, d, Harriet Lucrecia.
               12 Caleb Flinchpaugh, s. of IV, 2; m. 2-27-1851, Miami Twp., 
                            Hamilton
                         Co., O., Rachel Ingersoll; children: a, William H., b, David, c, Wesley Roger, d,
                        Isaac, e, Jacob, f, Frank, g, Anderson E., h, Edward.
               13 Jacob Flinchpaugh, s. of IV, 2; d. c. 1850, Calif.; never married.
               14 William Flinchpaugh, s. of IV, 2; m. Eliza Brown; children: a, Emma, b, Lulie, c, Mattie.
               
               15 Harriet Flinchpaugh, dau. of IV, 2; m. Gottlieb Metzger; children: a, William, b, John, c,
                        Edward, d, Frank Leslie, e, Laura, f, g, names unknown.
               16 John Finchpaugh, s. of IV, 2; m. Fanny Yanney; children: a, Charles, Nora, c, Ernest, d,
                        son, e, dau., names unknown.
               17 William Schmidlapp, s. of IV, 3; d. young; never married.
               18 Frances Schmidlapp, dau. of IV, 3; d. young; never married.
               19 Julia Schmidlapp, dau. of IV, 3; r. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind., and 
                            Denver
                        , 
                            Colo.
                        ; m. Dr.— Childs; children: 2 names unknown.
               20 Caleb Schmidlapp, Jr., s. of IV, 3; m. Belle Milligan; d. 
                            Louisville
                        , 
                            Ky.
                        , 1937; Aunt of Will Wood; children: 3 d. no heirs, names unknown.
               21 Charles Schmidlapp, s. of IV, 3; m.—.; children: 1 dau. name unknown; m.
                        —— 
                            Carlisle
                        .
               22 Lewis Schmidlapp, s. of IV, 3; r. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.; d. before 1901; m. Sarah Hamline Taylor; dau. of Caleb Jarvis Taylor;
                        children: a, Amelia, b, Emily, c, Frances.
               23 Caroline Schmidlapp, dau. of IV, 3; m. Louis Trinkle; bro. of George (see V, 5); r. Hope,
                        Ind.; children 2 or 3 d. no heirs.
               24 —Schmidlapp, dau. of IV, 3; name unknown; m. —— De-Garmo.
               25 John D. Schmidlapp, s. of IV, 3; b. c. 1839; r. 
                            Madison
                        , Ind., and 
                            Denver
                        , 
                            Colo.
                        ; m. Mathilda J. McLeland; b. 1839; d. 1901, 
                            Madison
                        , Ind.; buried Springdale; dau. of Capt. William E. McLeland and Elizabeth
                        Wilkinson; children: a, William, b, Caleb.
               26 Jennie Schmidlapp, dau. of IV, 3; b. c. 1840; d. c. 1920; r. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.; m. Felix Bryan; no children.
               27 Charles Ulmer, s. of IV, 5; no children.
               28 Henry Ulmer, s. of IV, 5; r. 
                            Cincinnati
                        ; m. ——?; children: a, 
                            Milton
                        , b, Henry, Jr., c, Ida Belle.
               29 Julia Ulmer, dau. of IV, 5; r. 
                            Cincinnati
                        ; m. — Wirth; children; a, William.
               30 Louis Elmer, s. of IV, 5; no children.
               31 Ida Ulmer, dau. of IV, 5; d. 4-8-1915, 
                            Hanover
                        , Ind.; m. John Charles Freemont Schmidlapp (see VI, 25); children: one d. infancy.
               32 Johannas Jacob Schmidlapp, s. of IV, 8; b. Piqua, O., 7-25-1837; d. 4-28-1839.
               33 William David Schmidlapp, s. of IV, 8; b. 12-25-1839; r. Piqua; d. 6-28-1893; m.
                        ——?; children: a, Forrest, and 2 d. childhood.
               34 Carl Christopf Schmidlapp (took name Charles), s. of IV, 8; b, 9-23-1842, Piqua; d.
                        10-29-1885, 
                            N.Y.
                        C.; buried Spring Grove, 
                            Cincinnati
                        ; m. Margaret Yost; b. 9-27-1851; d. 4-19-1923; children: a, Charles Yost, b, Iola.
               35 Theodore Fredrich Schmidlapp, s. of IV, 8; b. 4-7-1845, Piqua; d. 1910, Piqua; m.
                        ——?; children: a, Elizabeth, b, Caroline, c, Walter.
               36 Jacob Godfrey Schmidlapp, s. of IV, 8; b. 9-7-1849, Piqua; d.  1819, 
                            Cincinnati
                        ; buried Spring Grove Cem.; m. 
                            Cincinnati
                        , Emilie Balke; b. 10-17-1858; d. 2-27-1900; dau. of Julius and Charlotte Balke.
                        (See National Cyclopedia of American Biographies, Vol. XIX for further
                        information on this Schmidlapp.) Children: a, Julian C, b, Emma Louise, c, William Horace, d,
                        Charlotte Rose, e, Carl Jacob, f, Rudolph O.
               37 Emma Wilhelmina Schmidlapp, dau. of IV, 8; b. 11-17-1851; r. Piqua; d. 1-3-1929; m.
                        —— Kiefer; children: a, Freda, b, girl name unknown; m. Stanley Boylan.
               38 Son of IV, 8, name unknown; b. 10-13-1854; d. 3-2-1855.
               39 Ludwig Heinrich Schmidlapp (took name Louie H.), s. of IV, 8; b. 4-4-1857; r. 
                            Cincinnati
                        ; d. 11-24-1914; buried Spring Grove; m. Sarah T.——?; b. c.
                        1864; d. 2-12-1913; children: a, Emilie, b, William.
               VI 1 Katie Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 1; b. before 1864; m.—— Perry;
                        children: a, Bertha.
               2 Sally Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 1; b. before 1864; never married.
               3 Tilly Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 1; b. before 1864; never married.
               4 Sophia Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 2; m. Mack Jordan; r. Seymour, Ind.; children: a, Mamie, b,
                        Ella, c, Clinton, d, Clara, e, Stella.
               5 John Schmidlapp, s. of V, 2; r. and d. Calif.
               6 Mary Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 2; b. 1851, Jefferson Co., Ind.; d. 1932; r. 
                            Kent
                        , Jefferson Co., Ind.; m. Asa Lowe; b. 1850; d. 1933, s. of Moses Lowe (1826-1880),
                        and Mary——? (1827-1918); children: a, Eva, b, Emma Belle, c, Charles, d,
                        Lucy, e, Addie, f, John, g, Bertha, h, Grover, and 2 names unknown, d. infancy.
               7 Caleb Schmidlapp, s. of V, 2; b. c. 1853; m. Carrie Stillhammer; d. young; sister of John
                        Stillhammer; children: a, John, b, Phillip E., c, William C, d, Charles, e, Frederick.
               8 Thomas Jefferson Schmidlapp, s, of V, 2; b. 8-5-1855; d. 8-6-1879; buried 
                            Kent
                        
                        
                            Cem.
                        , Jefferson Co., Ind.; never married.
               9 Abraham Lincoln Schmidlapp, s. of V, 2; b. c. 1860; r. West; m. Jefferson Co., Ind., Alice
                        Black, dau. of James Black; children: a, Ruby, b, Lucy, c, Ernest, d, son name unknown, d.
                        infancy.
               10 Jacob David Mouser, s. of V, 3; b. 10-23-1843, Jefferson Co., Ind.; d. 1-14-1892; m. Nancy
                        Stites, Jefferson Co., Ind.; b. c. 1849; d. 6-6-1928; buried Smyrna Pres. Cem.; sister of Jacob
                        Stites (see VI, 13), and Christina (see VI 12); children: a, William, b, Riley, c, Jessie, d,
                        Nathan, e, Bright, f, name unknown.
               11 Mary Sophia Mouser, dau. of V, 3; b. 4-21-1845; r. near Smyrna Pres. Church, Jefferson Co.,
                        Ind.; d. 11-8-1921; m. 5-17-1864, Samuel B. Gabel; s. of Francis Gabel and Lydia Bisselle;
                        children: a, Lydia, b, George, c, Clara, d, Harvey, e, Alice, f, Effie, g, Charles.
               12 John G. Mouser, s. of V, 3; b. 12-25-1846; d. 2-18-1914; buried Smyrna Pres. Cem.,
                        Jefferson Co., Ind.; m. Christiana Stites; b. 2-11-1851; d. 6-16-1929; sister of Jacob (see VI,
                        13), and  Nancy (see VI, 10); children: a, Jacob, b, Daisy,
                        c, Clara, d, John, e, Caleb, f, Nellie.
               13 Katherine Christine Mouser, dau. of V. 3; b. 8-15-1848; r. Antioch Grange near 
                            Kent
                        , Jefferson Co., Ind.; d. after 1903; m. Jacob Stites; bro. of Nancy (see VI, 10),
                        and Christian (see VI, 12); children: a, Oliver, b, John, c, William, d, Stella, e, Harry, f,
                        Bertha, g, Roy.
               14 Indiana 
                            California
                         Mouser, dau. of V, 3; b. 7-15-1850; d. 10-15-1929, Jefferson Co., Ind.; m. William
                        Borcherding; b. 7-18-1842, 
                            Germany
                        ; d. 8-14-1914; bro. of Mary Borcherding Gentrup and Dietrick Borcherding (parents
                        stayed in 
                            Germany
                        ); children: a, Mary Charlotte, b, name unknown, died in infancy, c, Caroline
                        Mathilda, d, Bertha Lesetta, e, William Henry, f, Jacob Mouser, g, Nettie Viola, h, John
                        Charles, i, Estella May, j, Lydia Mabel, k, Luella Vivian, l, Florence Pearl, m, Clarence Earl.
               15 Jacob Mouser, Jr., s. of V, 3; b. 1852; d. 1854.
               16 Benjamin Franklin Mouser, s. of V, 3; b. 2-6-1854, near 
                     Kent, Hanover
                   Twp.,
                        Jefferson Co., Ind.; d. 3-1-1907, 
                            Hanover
                        , Ind.; buried 
                            Fairmount
                        
                        
                            Cem.
                        , 
                            Madison
                        , Ind.; m. 8-27-1884, Pleasant Ridge, 
                            Madison
                         Twp., Jefferson Co., Ind., Hester Ella Bear; b. 7-30-1855, Jefferson Co., Ind.; d.
                        8-24-1928, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; buried 
                            Fairmount
                        
                        
                            Cem.
                        , 
                            Madison
                        , Ind.; dau. of Joseph Bear (1832-1910), and Margaret Whitemore (1832-1908);
                        children: a, Byron, b, Mabel, c, Raymond, d, Sylvan Leslie.
               17 Ada Virginia Mouser, dau. of V, 3; b. 10-11-1855, Jefferson Co., Ind.; r. 
                            Hanover
                        , Ind.; d. 4-29-1923; m. Benjamin Wooten; children: a, Dorinda, b, John A., c, Fred,
                        d, Frank, e, Nellie.
               18 Lesette Olympia Mouser, dau. of V, 3; b. 1-?-1858; d. 4-23-1912; r. DuPont, Ind.; buried
                        DuPont Cem.; m. Charles R. Bear; b. 1856; d. 1912; s. of 
                            Madison
                         Bear and Mary Jane Joyce; children: a, Oscar C, b, Ollie, c, Fred, d, Orville, e,
                        Grover, f, Mabel, g, Gladys.
               19 William Caleb Mouser, s. of V, 3; b. 11-15-1859/60; d. 4-9-1908; buried Smyrna Pres. Cem.;
                        m. Alice Holcroft, living Jefferson Co., Ind.; children: a, Howard Clinton, b, Bryant, c. Floyd,
                        d, Willard Caleb, e, Perry Vandervoort, f, Roscoe Ver-non.
               20 Clara Malinda Mourer, dau. of V, 3; b. 9-24-1861; r. living 
                            Madison
                        , Ind.; m. 3-27-1888, George Metzger; b. 11-4-1863; d. 10-29-1910; buried Springdale
                        Cem.; bro. of Peter Metzger; children: a, Herbert, b, Bertha Hazel.
               21 Eliza Rebecca Mouser, dau. of V, 3; b. 11-17-1863, Jefferson Co., Ind.; r. living 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; m. 11-1-1892, Dr. Nelson Demosthenes Gaddy; b. 1-1-1832; s. of Barnet Gaddy and
                        Mathilda Taylor. (Eliza was 2nd wife of Dr. N. D. Gaddy, 1st wife d. no children.) Children: a,
                        Vivia, b, Euclid Taylor, c, Meton.
               22 Alonzo Clinton Mouser, s. of V, 3; b. 10-15-1865; r. 
                            Hanover
                        , Ind.; d. 1-31-1939; m. Louise Schumann, sister of Lucetta Schumann  Meuser. (N.B. This is not Mouser.) Children: a, Bernice, b, Marie.
               23 Olive Martha Mouser, dau. of V, 3; b. 11-16-1868; r. Browns-burg, Ind.; d. 9-30-1933;
                        buried Brownsburg; m. William Corrie; b. 2-28-1860; d. 3-17-1931; s. of William Corrie (Currie)
                        and Laura Katherine Schwartz; children: a, Ethel, b, Mildred.
               24 Carrie Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 4; b. c. 1855; r. 
                            Madison
                        , Ind.; d. 9-17-1879; m. John C. White c. 1878; no children. (He married again.)
               25 John Charles Freemont Schmidlapp, s. of V, 4; b. 1858; r. 
                            Hanover
                        , Ind.; d. 1936; m. 1st Ida Ulmer (see V, 31), 2-24-1897, 
                            Cincinnati
                        ; children: one child d. infancy; m. 2nd 6-14-1916, Mrs. Prudence Tait Richey; dau.
                        of Charles J. Tait and Susan F. Morton of 
                            Hanover
                        , Ind.; no children.
               26 Emma Sofia Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 4; b. 3-14-1860; r. living Grandfather
                        Schmidlapp's home place near 
                            Madison
                        , Ind.; never married.
               27 William Schmidlapp, s. of V, 4; b. 1862; d. 1871.
               28 Kathryne Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 4; b. c. 1865; m. Rev. George O. Nichols of 
                            Hanover
                        , Ind.; r. Tulsa, Okla.; bro. of Charles, Eva, and Mrs. Clemens Stucker; children:
                        a, William, b, Ruth, c, Dorothy.
               29 Mathilda Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 4; b. 1866; d. 1868.
               30 Edward Frederick Schmidlapp, s. of V, 4; b. 3-4-1869; r. living near 
                            Madison
                        , Ind.; never married.
               31 Harry Lewis Schmidlapp, s. of V, 4; b. c. 1871; r. West; d. 1928; m. Lena — of 
                            Kansas
                         City; no children. (He was her 2nd husband.)
               32 Oscar Perry Schmidlapp, s. of V, 4; b. 1875-6; d. 8-29-1934; never married.
               33 Ida Wynona Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 4; b. 8-18-1879; r. near 
                            Madison
                        , Ind., on Grandfather Schmidlapp's home place; m. 4-17-1907, Frank
                        Aspinall; b. 12-21-1876, 
                            England
                        ; d. 9-20-1930; buried 
                            Hanover
                        , Ind.; s. of James Christopher Aspinall and Margaret Jane Markland of 
                            Blackburn
                        , 
                            England
                        ; children: a, Margaret Elizabeth, b, Florence Kathryn, c, Martha Frances.
               34 John Wesley Trinkle, s. of V, 5; b. 4-15-1849; d. 6-7-1923; buried Zoar M. E. Cem.; never
                        married.
               35 George W. Trinkle, s. of V, 5; b. 7-13-1850; d. 2-7-1938; buried Zoar Cem.; r. 
                            Madison
                         Twp., Jefferson Co., Ind.; m. Mary Kloepfer; d. 3-7-1938; sister of Jacob Kloepfer;
                        children: a, Charles, b, Alice, c, Lewis (Louis), d. name unknown, d. in infancy.
               36 David B. Trinkle, s. of V, 5; b. 1-7-1852; r. 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; d. 11-24-1943; m. 1st Emma Thompson; d. 1905; children: a, Charles W., b, Stella,
                        c, Grace (?); m. 2nd Ellen Dupuy; no children; m. 3rd Jane Bayne; no children.
               37 Louis N. Trinkle, s. of V, 5; b. 6-27-1854;r. Jefferson Co., Ind.; d, 12-3-1939; m. 1st
                        Diantha A. Cline(s) 2-19-1880; b. 9-4-1859; d. 7-26-1915; buried Smyrna Pres. Cem.; sister of
                        James O.  Cline (see VII, 25); children: a, Elizabeth, b, 
                            Virginia
                        , c, John Frederick, d, Nancy; m. 2nd 9-30-1917, Alva Smith; no children.
               38 Henry Caleb Trinkle, s. of V, 5; b. 3-2-1856; r. Smyrna Twp.; d. 9-7-1933; buried 
                            Hopewell
                        , Jefferson Co., Ind.; m. Mary Frances 
                            Ireland
                        ; d. 1923; children: a, George Samuel, b, Bertha.
               39 Amanda J. Trinkle, dau. of V, 5; b. 12-?-1857; d. age 9 mos.
               40 Charles A. Trinkle, s. of V, 5; b. 10-30-1859; r. 
                            Kansas
                         and 
                            Arizona
                        ; d. c. 1938; m. Eliza Strange; children: a, Mattie, b, Lulu, c, Johanna M.
               41 Catherine Trinkle, dau. of V, 5; b. 9-20-1861; r. living Deputy, Ind.; m. John Wallace II;
                        b. 1855; d. 1927; s. of John Wallace I and Belinda Baird; children: a, Harvey, b, William L., c,
                        Arthur, d, Minnie, e, John III, f, Robert B.
               42 Luella C. Trinkle, dau. of V, 5; b. 6-27-1863; d. 8-1-1881; buried Zoar Cem.; never
                        married.
               43 Willie M. Trinkle, s. of V, 5; b. 12-10-1865; d. age 6; buried Zoar Cem.
               44 Harvey Wiley Trinkle, s. of V, 5; b. 2-17-1869; r. living old Trinkle home place near 
                            Madison
                        , Ind.; m. Mattie Jean Wright, dau. of Henry Wright and ——
                        Adams; children: a, Harry, b, Hubert, c, Kathryn.
               45 Mary G. Becker, dau. of V, 6; b. 1852; d. 4-30-1881; m. 9-8-1875, Jefferson Co., Ind.,
                        Edwin R. Smock; b. 1853; d. 1901; s. of Samuel T. Smock and Mary Elizabeth Tevis. (Edwin R. m.
                        again after her death.) Children: a, Gertrude.
               46 John D. Schmidlap(p), s. of V, 7; b. 2-16-1863, 
                            Hanover
                         Twp., Jefferson Co., Ind.; d. 5-3-1926; buried Zoar Cem.; m. c. 1920, Arabella
                        Smart; b. 1855; d. 1935; dau. of Christopher Smart and Maria L. McGee; no children.
               47 Caleb Henry Schmidlap(p), s, of V, 7; b. 3-24-1865; r. Jefferson Co., Ind.; d. 9-29-1933;
                        buried Zoar Cem.; never married.
               48 Lydia Sophia Schmidlap(p), dau. of V, 7; b. 10-12-1867; d. 2-19-1893, Smyrna Twp.,
                        Jefferson Co., Ind.; m. Orr A. Wyne; no children. (He m. again after her death.)
               49 Charles Schmidlap(p), s. of V, 7; b. 2-27-1870; r. Father's home place, Jefferson
                        Co., Ind., & Kaneville, Ill.; d. 10-27-1944, 
                            DeKalb
                        , 
                            Ill.
                        ; buried Pisgah, Jefferson Co., Ind.; m. Anna Cook; b. 1868; d. 1-9-1941; buried
                        Pisgah; dau. of Nelson Wyatt Cook and Mary —?; children: a, Wyatt, b, Bertie (son).
               50 Clara C. Schmidlap(p), dau. of V, 7; b. 7-19-1872; d. 11-17-1898; m. McCleary Williamson,
                        1897; children: a, Thomas.
               51 William Schmidlap(p), s. of V, 7; b. 7-15-1875; d. 10-15-1876.
               52 Josephine Schmidlap(p), dau. of V, 7; b. 5-16-1879; d. 8-20-1907, 
                            Kent
                        , Republican Twp., Jefferson Co., Ind.; m. c. 1895, Charles Bernard Wiggam; b.
                        5-26-1875. (She was 1st wife.) Children: a, Effie Elola, b, Frieda Rose, c, Viola Gladys.
               53 Edward Schmidlapp, s. of V, 7; b. and d. 3-16-1883.
               54 Harriet Flinchpaugh, dau. of V. 9; m. — Fajaly.
               55 Eliza Ulmer, dau. of V, 11; r. 
                            Cincinnati
                        ; m. Joinville Reif; children: a, Emma Katherine, b, Louis Napoleon, c, Edward  Adam, d, Frederick Ulmer, e, Louise Eliza, f, William J.
               56 Harriet Ellen Ulmer, dau. of V, 11; never married.
               57 Harriet Lucrecia Ulmer, dau. of V, 11; never married.
               58 William H. Flinchpaugh, s. of V, 12; b. 3-6-1852, Miami Twp., 
                            Hamilton
                         Co., O.; r. Cleves, O.; d. 4-1-1943; m. Mary A. Wingerter, still living; children:
                        a, Linnie, b, Grace.
               59 David Flinchpaugh, s, of V, 12; d. before 1943; m. Mary Schrieber; children: a, Bell, b,
                        Louis, c, Fred, d, Howard.
               60 Wesley Roger Flinchpaugh, s. of V, 12; b. 3-19-1856; d. 8-24-1929; m. 1st Cora Allen of
                        Delhi Twp., 
                            Hamilton
                         Co., O.; children: a, Clifford James, b, Edith; m. 2nd Ida Emmett of Saylor Park,
                        O.; children: c, Harold, d, Irvin, e, LeRoy.
               61 Isaac Flinchpaugh, s. of V, 12; r. Kalispell, Mont.; d. before 1943; m. May Gloeckli; no
                        children.
               62 Jacob Flinchpaugh, s. of V, 12; d. before 1943; m. Josephine Metzger; children: a, Elmer,
                        b, Rachel.
               63 Frank Flinchpaugh, s. of V, 12; b. 4-25-1863; not married; living 1943.
               64 Anderson E. Flinchpaugh, s. of V, 12; b. 3-31-1866; r. Westwood, 
                            Cincinnati
                        ; living 1943; m. 11-25-1897, Susan Burton; children: a, Otis, b, James, c, Alice.
               65 Edward Flinchpaugh, s. of V, 12; d. before 1943; m. Clara Ertz; d. before 1943; no
                        children.
               66 Emma Flinchpaugh, dau. of V, 14; m. — Welch.
               67 Lulie Finchpaugh, dau. of V, 14; d. before 1943; m. — Winters.
               68 Mattie Finchpaugh, dau. of V, 14; m. — Chambers.
               69 William Metzger, s. of V, 15; oldest child.
               70 Edward Metzger, s. of V, 15; m —?; children: a, Edith (?).
               71 Laura Metzger, dau. of V, 15; r. Cleves, O.; m. Frank Paeltz; d. before 1943; children:
                        names unknown.
               72 Charles Flinchpaugh, s. of V, 16; d. before 1943.
               73 Nora Flinchpaugh, dau. of V, 16; r. living 1943, Cleves, O.; m. Virgil Henderson.
               74 Ernest Flinchpaugh, s. of V, 16; d. before 1943.
               75 -76 — Childs, 2 children of V, 19; names unknown, m. and r. 
                            Denver
                        , 
                            Colo.
                        ; d.; no children.
               77 -79 — Schmidlapp, 3 children of V, 20; names unknown; d.; no children.
               80 — Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 21; r. 
                            Chicago
                        , 
                            Ill.
                        , 1938; m.— 
                            Carlisle
                        .
               81 Amelia Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 22; r. 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; d. 11-16-43; m. B. E. Andrew; children: a, Evelyn, b, Lewis Edmund.
               82 Emily Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 22; r. living 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; m. J. H. Hellekson; d. 11-8-1943; children: a, Ruth.
               83 Frances Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 22; d. c. 1941; r. 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; m. 1st William Henry Hobbs; children: a, William Henry, Jr.; m. 2nd James S.
                        Wands; no children. (By his former wife he had son Clyde A.)
               84 William Schmidlapp, s. of V, 25; b. 1862; r. 
                            Denver
                        , 
                            Colo.
                        ; m. Cordie 
                            Monroe
                        .
               
               85 Caleb Schmidlap, s. of V, 25; b. 1864; m. —?.
               86 
                            Milton
                         Ulmer, s. of V. 28; r. 
                            Ohio
                        ; m.—?; 3 children, names unknown.
               87 Henry Ulmer, Jr. (uses name Harry), s. of V, 28; r. living 
                            Cincinnati
                        ; m. —?; 3 children, names unknown.
               88 Ida Belle Ulmer, dau. of V, 28; m.— Jenner; r. 
                            Cincinnati
                        .
               89 William Wirth, s. of V, 29; r. 
                            Cincinnati
                        ; m. Emma —?; children: a, Robert (and may have been others).
               90 Forest Schmidlap, s. of V, 33; r. Piqua; d. before 1943; m. —?; children: a,
                        Gretchen, b, Forest Lee.
               91 Charles Yost Schmidlapp, s. of V, 34; b. 1880; d. 1882; buried Spring Grove, 
                            Cincinnati
                        .
               92 Iola Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 34; r. Santa Barbara, Calif.; m. William Conklin; children: a,
                        son (Navy), b, son (doctor), c, son (banker), d. dau.; names unknown.
               93 Elizabeth Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 35; r. Piqua, O.; living 1943; not married.
               94 Caroline Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 35; r. living Piqua; not married.
               95 Walter Schmidlapp, s. of V, 35; r. Piqua; not married.
               96 Julian C. Schmidlapp, s. of V, 36; b. 9-26-1878; d. 4-21-1879; buried Spring Grove, 
                            Cincinnati
                        .
               97 Emma Louise Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 36; b. 3-12-1881; d. 2-28-1900; never married.
               98 William Horace Schmidlapp, s. of V, 36; b. 5-25-1883; d. 1-28-1929; buried Spring Grove, 
                            Cincinnati
                        ; m. Jean M. —? (She m. 2nd William J. Sturgis; r. 
                            N.Y.
                        C.); children: a, William Horace, Jr., b, Lawrence Maxwell, c, Carol Jacob, II, d,
                        Jacob Godfrey II.
               99 Charlotte Rose Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 36; b. 1-?-1887; d. 9-20-1906, 
                     Paris, France
                  ; never
                        married.
               100 Carl Jacob Schmidlapp, s. of V, 36; b. 8-10-1888; r. living 1943, 
                            N.Y.
                        C.; m. 3-15-1920, Frances Cooper Kline. (See Who's Who
                        for further information.) Children: a, Frances Downing, b, Jean Cooper.
               101 Rudolph O. Schmidlapp, s. of V, 36; b. 9-?-1893; d. 1-27-1894; buried Spring Grove, 
                            Cincinnati
                        .
               102 Freda Kiefer, dau. of V, 37; r. living Piqua; m. Charles Schwab; children: a, dau., name
                        unknown, b, Jeanne, c, Sara, d, John Jacob.
               103 — Kiefer, dau. of V, 37; name unknown; r. Lima, O.; m. Stanley Boylan; no
                        children.
               104 Emilie Schmidlapp, dau. of V, 39; r. 
                            Cincinnati
                        ; m. Dr. Arthur E. Osmond.
               105 William Schmidlapp, s. of V, 39; r. Mont.
            
            [To be continued]
         
         
         
            SIMON HADLEY AND HIS DESCENDANTS
            MRS. IRENE M. STRIEBY
            
            The Genealogy Section of the Indiana State Library is the recipient of "Simon Hadley and His
                    Descendants," a compilation of hundreds of typewritten pages assembled in four volumes
                    bound in "
                        Quaker
                    " gray. In addition to the genealogical records there are photographs of people
                    and places, newspaper clippings, copies of census, court, Bible and church records, early wills, and
                    marriage agreements signed by witnesses. Interesting anecdotes and bits of family history and
                    biography, as well as personal letters are found among the pages, leading descendants to anticipate
                    something greener for their family tree.
            Supplemented by material listed above, the family records are based primarily on questionnaires sent
                    out by the compiler, Kingston Goddard Hadley, of 
                        Media
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . It is evident that he devoted many years of his life to this work, following every
                    clew received to enable him to make the family records complete to 1937. Many years ago Mordecai
                    Hadley, of Indiana, wrote a partial genealogy of the family which the compiler had the privilege of
                    copying. He states that he used a chart made by Walter Brooks Hadley as well as data sent by others
                    who had attempted to trace their own lines back to the immigrant ancestor. To these he gives credit
                    in his preliminary notes.
            An examination of the volumes reveals the fact that the original plan was to assign to each
                    descendant a number keyed to generations down from Simon Hadley. As more information reached the
                    compiler he was unable to carry out the plan; however, these numbers are helpful in keeping family
                    groups together. Families of daughters are carried through several generations, a feature not
                    customary in the usual family history. Birth, death, and marriage dates always are included when the
                    facts are available. Much collateral data appear making buried treasure for the genealogist. It is
                    amazing to realize that the compiler was able to assemble the information, once it was collected. In
                    its present form the genealogy is difficult to use; it is hoped that some descendant will supplement
                    this labor of love with an adequate index.
            Simon Hadley, the father of Simon Hadley, the immigrant,  owned
                    an iron smithy in King's County, 
                        Ireland
                    , and was also interested in some fishery property in 
                        Dublin
                    . He was born about 1640 and his first wife was Catherine Talbot (?), of 
                        Dublin
                    . She seems to have been the first of the name to join the Society of Friends; her death
                    is recorded in the Minutes of the Moate Granoge Register. After her death Simon Hadley married a
                    second time; this marriage was "out of unity" and caused his disownment from the
                    society. He died on June 6, 1711, leaving four children —John Hadley, Elizabeth Hadley
                    Miller, Jane Hadley Kiernan, and Simon, the immigrant.
            Simon Hadley II (c. 1675-1756) came from 
                        County West Meath
                    , 
                        Ireland
                    , to America, in 1712, accompanied by his wife, Ruth Keran, and six children born in 
                        Ireland
                    . He settled in 
                        New Garden
                     Township, 
                        Chester County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in what was then known as the Manor of Steyning. The land extended into 
                        Newcastle County
                    ; when the Deleware state line was drawn, it passed through his land and placed his
                    residence in Mill Creek Hundred, 
                        Newcastle County
                    , 
                        Delaware
                    . Tradition says that the British Army camped upon a section of this land on the night
                    before the Battle of the Brandywine.
            About him lived many of the early families, most of whom were of English origin, who came to
                    Penn's colony by way of 
                        Ireland
                    . These Friends of Steyning Manor built a meeting house in 1713; Simon Hadley was one of
                    the four trustees, and was chosen overseer of the 
                        New Garden
                     Meeting in 1733. In 1726 he was appointed a justice of the peace and also served at
                    various times as judge of the county court. His name appears on a petition from Concord Quarterly
                    Meeting—3rd month, 13th day, 1734—addressed to King George II, of 
                        England
                    , relative to the boundary disputes between the Penns and Lord Baltimore.
            Many descendants have gone back to Simon Hadley's 
                        Pennsylvania
                     home during the past decade. The old house is a two-and-one-half-story stone structure
                    covered with yellow stucco. A pen and ink sketch shows the gabled roof, the quaint-pointed windows,
                    and the white stone slab sunk in the front wall on which are carved the initials, S (and) R. H,
                    1717, the year that Simon and Ruth built this home. The interior of the house includes a lovely old
                    mantle and a colonial stairway. The stone foundations of the carriage shed remain; the old barn with
                    its gabled roof and stone  foundations, with new exterior timber
                    as well as an addition, are on the same hilltop as the house. A short distance away is the meeting
                    house, with its burial ground, the final resting place of this progenitor of the 
                        Quaker
                     Hadleys in America.
            Simon Hadley's will is on file in the courthouse at 
                        Wilmington
                    , 
                        Delaware
                    . It is a lengthy one; a copy is included as the inventory which has been printed in the
                        Calendar of Delaware Wills, 
                            Newcastle County
                        , 1682-1800, compiled by the Colonial Dames. His bequests were sixty, exceeding
                    any on record to that date, and, in addition to large grants of land, he willed $15,000
                    to his children and grandchildren. Even the children of his second wife, Phoebe Grubb, are named and
                    remembered.
            The children were Joseph, born in 1698, who married Amy Gregg; Deborah, born in 1701, who married (1)
                    Benjamin Fredd and (2) Jacob Howell; Joshua, born in 1703, who married (1) Mary Rowland and (2)
                    Patience Brown; Simon, born in 1705, died unmarried; Hannah, born in 1710, who married (1) Thomas
                    Dixon and (2) John Stanfield; Ruth, born in 1712, who married Thomas Lindley; Catherine, born in
                    1715, who married Robert Johnson; Anne, born in 1718, who married Richard Gregg.
            During the year 1746, Joshua Hadley bought 400 acres of land in 
                        Augusta County
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    . Later, he bought additional tracts, records of which are included. After a few years
                    in 
                        Virginia
                    , the family moved to 
                        Orange County
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    , where other members of the family were living. Records of many births, marriages, and
                    deaths of the family are recorded in the 
                        Cane Creek
                     Monthly Meeting Minutes many of whose first members were families from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     when the meeting was authorized in 1751. From 
                        Cane Creek
                     Meeting the family spread out to neighboring counties. Some members remained after the
                    great migration of the Quakers westward between 1800 and 1850. Those still there make occasional
                    pilgrimages to the Joshua Hadley marker, erected in 1932 at the Spring Friend's Church
                    about twelve miles south of Graham, the county seat of Alamance County. On the top of an old mill
                    stone is a large stone from the chimney of Joshua Hadley's first house; on top of it is a
                    rock from the family hearth.
            Hadleys married Hadleys from generation to generation and, in addition to the collateral families
                    already mentioned,  they were closely allied with the families
                    of Pyle, Mendenhall, Newlin, Harvey, Jackson, Chambers, Maris, Hinshaw, Marshall, Pickett, Andrew,
                    McCracken, Holliday, Chamness, Woody, and Macy, as well as many others familiar to users of
                    Hinshaw's 
                  
                            Quaker
                         Genealogy. Descent from Charlemagne and English royal lines is traced for
                    those descended through Patience Brown, the great-granddaughter of William Clayton, who came to 
                        New Jersey
                     on the ship 
                        Kent
                     in 1677 and who was acting governor of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in 1684-1685.
            The name Hadley is a place name, derived from two Anglo-Saxon words meaning "a wild heath
                    where cattle graze." In America we have a Hadley village in seven states, a Hadley Station,
                    a Hadley Chapel, and Hadley townships in both the North and the South. The spot called Hadley, in 
                        Chatham County
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    , is presumed to have been the location of Joshua Hadley's mill, possession of
                    which probably aided members of the family to render material aid to our continental troops.
            In every line from Simon and Ruth, one finds given names repeated. There are Simons by the dozen.
                    Jonathan, too, was a popular name; one who lived near Guilford Courthouse, because of his loud
                    voice, was called "Whispering Jonathan" to distinguish him from
                    "Jonathan-up-the-creek" and "Jonathan-down-the-creek." Jeremiah,
                    James, Joshua, John, and Joseph were other favorites. Hence we have "Gentleman
                    John," "Hill Jerry," "Lame Joseph," "Joshua
                    the Miller," and "Little Newt," the latter for James Newton Hadley. There
                    were the "T. Hadleys," too; eight sons of Simon and Elizabeth Thompson, buried at
                    Mill Creek, Hend-ricks County, Indiana, had the middle initial "T" for Thompson to
                    carry on the mother's name.
            Hadley families are in every state from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     south, southwest, and west to the coasts. The four volumes record the trek of a family
                    of indomitable pioneers pushing farther and farther into newer territory. Many of the descendants of
                    Joshua and his first wife, Mary Rowland, espoused the cause of the Revolution, later moving into
                    every Southern state, whereas the majority of Simon's descendants came north and west via
                    the Carolina gateway. By far the greatest concentration before 1850 was found in south central
                    Indiana, with Morgan and Hendricks counties as the nucleus. 
                        Iowa
                     was another gathering place whence they pushed farther westward.
            
            Descendants are legion. To be convinced one has only to examine the obituary columns of the American Friend where as many as three of the names in as many different parts of
                    the country have been listed at the same time. There is a Hadley Genealogical Society in 
                        California
                     where descendants of Simon even admit to membership descendants of the Hadleys, of 
                        Ipswich
                    , 
                        Massachusetts
                    . Among the family there have been governors, ministers, judges, physicians, lawyers,
                    army officers, ministers, and even Hollywood is represented by "Buddy" Rogers. In
                    Hendricks County, Indiana, there was an unbroken record of seventy-five years in which Hadleys
                    served in public office.
            The donor of these volumes is Chalmers Hadley, author of the Quaker Family of
                    Hadley, published in 1916, which Mr. Kingston Hadley drew upon in compiling the earliest
                    records of the Hadleys in 
                  England, Ireland
               , and in America. He is descended from William Hadley, son of
                    Thomas and Mary Newlin Hadley, who married Ann Harvey, the daughter of Eli and Mary Stanfield
                    Harvey. Their youngest son was Evan Hadley, born in 1845, who married Ella Quinn. He attended
                    Earlham College and Long Island Medical College, was a Professor of Medicine at the Medical College
                    of Indiana, and a one-time superintendent of the City Hospital. For thirty years he was a practicing
                    physician of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , later retiring to 
                        Mooresville
                    , near his birthplace. Evan Hadley had four sons, Paul Hadley, our well-known Indiana
                    artist; Evan, who lives with Paul in 
                        Mooresville
                    ; Harvey, a physician of 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana; and Chalmers Hadley, to whom the compiler gave the books in the hope that
                    some day they would be printed.
            Chalmers Hadley was born in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and married Florence Hendrie, daughter of Charles Francis and Sarah Crocker Adams
                    Hendrie, in 
                        Denver
                     where he was librarian of the public library, 1911-1924. Prior to 1911 he had been
                    engaged in newspaper work in 
                        Philadelphia
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was secretary and state organizer for the Indiana Public Library Commission of
                    Indiana, secretary and executive officer of the American Library Association, and its president in
                    1919-1920. Since 1924, he has been librarian of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Hamilton County
                     Public Library, living at his suburban home, "Birdwhistle." His
                    interests have been wide, but he has ever maintained his enthusiasm for genealogy and his Indiana
                    home.
         
         
         
            Query 128
            CARRICO-WILSON. Margaret Carrico, born in Indiana 1805, daughter of Charles Carrico, lived in Farmers
                    Township, 
                        Greene County
                    , Indiana, married about 1828, James Anderson Wilson, born in 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1800, moved to 
                        Missouri
                    . Margaret had brother, Josiah Carrico, Methodist Minister, who married Jane Williams
                    sister of Billy (Blue Jeans) Williams, early Indiana statesman. Charles may have been son of Josiah
                    Carrico, in Indiana (
                        Sullivan County
                    ) 1818. Wish name and birth place of parents of Charles Carrico, and complete list of
                    children and name of wife.
            Tessie James Miller
            100 N.W. 24
            
               
                        Oklahoma City
                    , 
                        Oklahoma
                    
            
         
         
            For Sale
            A set of the Indiana Magazine of History from Volume I to XXII with the exception
                    of numbers 2, 3, and 4 of Volume I, number 4 of Volume IV, and number 1 of Volume XXII is available.
            Please address inquiries to the Editor, Indiana Magazine of History, Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana. The set does not belong to the Magazine or to the Editor.
                    The missing numbers except for Volume I can be supplied at present.
         
         
         
            Inventory of the Indiana Magazine of History
            The following list gives the number of each issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                    History which are possessed by the Magazine. They are for sale at prices of
                    fifty cents to one dollar and fifty cents, depending upon the scarcity of the particular issue.
                    Persons desiring to complete files of the Magazine may see what opportunity there
                    is of doing so.
            
               
                  Volume
                  Year
                  March
                  June
                  September
                  December
               
               
                  I
                  1905
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  II
                  1906
                  1
                  1
                  7
                  0
               
               
                  III
                  1907
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  IV
                  1908
                  44
                  24
                  41
                  26
               
               
                  V
                  1909
                  78
                  52
                  28
                  33
               
               
                  VI
                  1910
                  34
                  39
                  38
                  16
               
               
                  VII
                  1911
                  35
                  31
                  24
                  4
               
               
                  VIII
                  1912
                  0
                  14
                  38
                  20
               
               
                  IX
                  1913
                  18
                  76
                  68
                  117
               
               
                  X
                  1914
                  0
                  29
                  24
                  42
               
               
                  XI
                  1915
                  3
                  72
                  40
                  12
               
               
                  XII
                  1916
                  68
                  66
                  25
                  88
               
               
                  XIII
                  1917
                  56
                  44
                  49
                  35
               
               
                  XIV
                  1918
                  37
                  41
                  49
                  38
               
               
                  XV
                  1919
                  56
                  57
                  44
                  87
               
               
                  XVI
                  1920
                  146
                  110
                  82
                  47
               
               
                  XVII
                  1921
                  13
                  76
                  6
                  0
               
               
                  XVIII
                  1922
                  0
                  83
                  7
                  7
               
               
                  XIX
                  1923
                  38
                  12
                  79
                  121
               
               
                  XX
                  1924
                  172
                  200
                  197
                  49
               
               
                  XXI
                  1925
                  180
                  11*
                  
                  183
               
               
                  XXII
                  1926
                  11
                  101
                  80
                  103
               
               
                  XXIII
                  1927
                  165
                  446
                  359
                  228
               
               
                  XXIV
                  1928
                  132
                  157
                  139
                  108
               
               
                  XXV
                  1929
                  222
                  222
                  185
                  220
               
               
                  XXVI
                  1930
                  111
                  99
                  115
                  169
               
               
                  XXVII
                  1931
                  169
                  219
                  234
                  247
               
               
                  XXVIII
                  1932
                  313
                  308
                  314
                  315
               
               
                  XXIX
                  1933
                  250
                  405
                  439
                  416
               
               
                  XXX
                  1934
                  292
                  401
                  318
                  318
               
               
                  XXXI
                  1935
                  244
                  321
                  314
                  270
               
               
                  XXXII
                  1936
                  182
                  378
                  276
                  250
               
               
                  XXXIII
                  1937
                  167
                  351
                  268
                  242
               
               
                  XXXIV
                  1938
                  91
                  66
                  133
                  178
               
               
                  XXXV
                  1939
                  39
                  275
                  272
                  241
               
               
                  XXXVI
                  1940
                  310
                  355
                  325
                  242
               
               
                  XXXVII
                  1941
                  161
                  257
                  382
                  230
               
               
                  XXXVIII
                  1942
                  276
                  332
                  353
                  350
               
               
                  XXXIX
                  1943
                  221
                  343
                  353
                  269
               
               
                  XL
                  1944
                  144
                  384
                  276
                  314
               
            
            General Index for Volumes I to XXV—329
            
               
                  *This is a double number for June and September.
            
         
         
         
            List of Contributors
            Louis A. Warren is the director of the Lincoln National Life Foundation, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana.
            Elfrieda Lang is the secretary and assistant to the editor of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana. This paper is a continuation of "German Immigration to 
                        Dubois County
                    , Indiana, during the Nineteenth Century," which appeared in the June issue of
                    this Magazine, Volume XLI, pages 131-151. Both are revised chapters of a
                    Master's thesis at Indiana University, 1944, which was written under the direction of John
                    D. Barnhart.
            R. C. Freytag is the assistant managing director of the Coal Trade Association of Indiana, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana.
            Mrs. Julie Le Clerc Knox is the president of the 
                        Switzerland County
                     Historical Society, 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana.
            Caroline Dunn is the librarian of the William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical
                    Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
            Lawrence C. McFaddin is a private first class, Office of Strategic Service, Mission for 
                        Germany
                    , 
                        Wiesbaden
                    , 
                        Germany
                    . He is a former resident of 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, and a student of Indiana University.
            Robert H. Irrmann is a member of the history department at Denison University, 
                  Granville, Ohio
               .
            Mrs. Sylvan L. Mouser is a resident of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
            Mrs. Irene M. Strieby is the librarian for Eli Lilly and Company and a member of the Genealogy
                    Committee of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
      
   
