
       ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 107, Issue 1, pages 1-86. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2011).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:107+issue:1+year:2011&browseMode=source
    
       ----FULL TEXT----
        
            
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
            
            



                  
                  
                        "Our Christian Duty"
                        Piety, Politics, and Temperance in Berne, Indiana, 1886-1907
                        JOHN EICHER
                        There is some bad looking blood brewing at the
                              usually quiet and modest town of Berne, between the energetic followers
                              of those championing the anti-saloon cause and those personally
                              interested in antagonizing this movement... It is evident that all is
                              not lovely, and that the public may hear more of the troubles that are
                              emanating from these conflicting sources. The
                                          [Decatur,
                                          Indiana] Democrat, June 4, 1903

                        The city of Berne, located in
                              northeast Indiana, about thirty
                              miles south of Fort Wayne, was established in 1886 after six
                              individuals, including four second-generation Mennonite immigrants,
                              petitioned for its incorporation.' At the time,
                                          Berne was home to
                              four saloons and 341 
                                    John Eicher is a PhD candidate in history at the
                                          University of Iowa. Currently, he is working on a
                                          dissertation about Mennonite immigration to
                                                  Paraguay from
                                                  Canada and the
                                                  U.S.S.R. during the 1920s
                                          and 1930s.
                                    1Petition of June 9, 1886, Register of Orders Paid by the Treasurer of
                                                Adams County 1886-1896, Berne City Building,
                                                  Berne, Indiana; Mennoniten
                                          Gemeinde, Gliederverzeichnis der Mennoniten
                                                Gemeinde bei Berne, Indiana
                                                  (Berne, Ind., 1898); Mennonite
                                          Church, Sunday School Records,
                                          1877-1890, Historical Room, First Mennonite Church,
                                                  Berne, Indiana. Within this paper I
                                          have attributed the designation of "Mennonite"
                                          only to those people whose names I found in one of the
                                          above mentioned church records. Since many of the early
                                          Mennonite settlers were related by blood and marriage,
                                          several family names are common throughout the history of
                                                  Berne. Of these,
                                          Baumgartner, Habegger, Lehman, Liechty, Nussbaum, and
                                          Sprunger were numerically predominant. Although these
                                          names may denote an individuals Mennonite ancestry, their
                                          membership in the church is not a given. Those whom I
                                          designate as having a "Mennonite last name" are
                                          people who are not found in these books, yet share the
                                          same name as one of Berne's founding
                                          Mennonite families. It is possible that these members
                                          could have split from the church or were not yet baptized
                                          into it.
                              
                               people, nearly half of whom were
                              Mennonites. By the turn of the century, its size had tripled due to
                              the business generated by a branch of the Grand Rapids and Indiana
                              Railroad and by its own internal growth.2 In 1902,
                              oil was discovered a few miles north of town. Scores of speculators
                              and transient workers flooded the community. Caught off guard by this
                              influx of unfamiliar working-class men, members of the local Mennonite
                              church felt their quiet community was spiraling out of control. As
                              saloon owners prospered and church folk petitioned for prohibition,
                              violence ruled. Within a period of four years, the Mennonite editor of
                              the town newspaper was beaten three times, two Mennonite women engaged
                              in a fistfight with a "stock buyer," and one house was
                                    dynamited.3
                        The Mennonites of Berne faced a
                              difficult choice. They could resettle elsewhere, accept the presence
                              of saloons in their town, or fight against them. A rising second
                              generation of Berne's
                              Mennonites chose the last of these options. Establishing connections
                              to ecumenical religious organizations (most notably the Indiana
                              Anti-Saloon League), filing lawsuits against saloon owners, and
                              running in local elections, the members of this generation sought to
                              restore order to the town. In the process, however, they also made
                              critical decisions concerning the way in which they engaged the
                              broader world. Embracing the temperance movement allowed
                                          Berne's
                              Mennonites to recast their traditional belief in social and political
                              separation from "the world" as a belief in abstaining from
                              the "worldly" practice of consuming alcohol. In doing so,
                              they found a way to affirm their separateness and sense of piety even
                              as they began utilizing new mechanisms of political and legal power
                              that were granted by the state. In this manner, Berne's Mennonites used the
                              temperance movement as a path to acculturation in mainstream American
                              society.
                        
                              2Claren Neuenschwander, The
                                          Founding of Berne, Indiana (1871-1872)
                                                (Berne, Ind., 1997), 10. Also see
                                    David L. Habegger and Karen C. Adams, The Swiss of
                                    Adams and Wells Counties, Indiana, 1838-1862
                                    (Fort
                   a                 Wayne, Ind., 2002);
                                    "History of Berne" article series, The [Berne, Indiana] Witness (hereafter The Witness),
                                    1897; N. G. Fankhauser, Thirtieth Anniversary
                                          Souvenir Edition of The Witness: Berne,
                                          Indiana, September 3, 1926 (Berne, Ind., 1926); Berne Centennial (n.p., 1952). Copying may have
                                    taken place between these sources, but the variety of authors
                                    and the breadth of time between their publications give hope
                                    that the information they share in common is accurate.
                              3Fred Rohrer, Saloon Fight at
                                          Berne, Ind. Not a Novel, but a Real History. Truth
                                          Stranger than Fiction (Berne, Ind., 1913), 42, 26-35.
                        
                        
                        
                              Brenneman Saloon, c. 1890s. By 1890, Berne's Mennonites
                                    perceived the town's growing number of saloons as a threat
                                    to their calm, ordered lives.
                              Courtesy of the Heritage Room of the Berne Public Library
                        

                        
                        Finding their start in the sixteenth-century Anabaptist movement,
                              Mennonites embraced such iconoclastic beliefs as believer's
                              baptism, the separation of church and state, personal nonviolence, a
                              rejection of church hierarchy, and the refusal to take an oath.4 Holding these unpopular beliefs as central
                              expressions of their faith made Mennonites social outsiders throughout
                              much of Europe. Without a formal church hierarchy, lay leaders usually
                              determined individual congregations' relationships to the state.
                              They based these decisions upon a mixture of motivations ranging from
                              pragmatism to strict religious devotion. Some chose death,
                              persecution, or banishment when confronted with official intolerance
                              and unsympathetic neighbors; others chose voluntary migration,
                              adaptation of their beliefs, or a complete acceptance of the social
                                    order.5
                        Threatened by those in power during the sixteenth and seventeenth
                              centuries, European Mennonites sought to be "Die Stillen im
                              Lande" (the quiet in the land) throughout the eighteenth and
                              nineteenth centuries. They tended to their own communities and stayed
                              away from urban power centers. This self-imposed and externally
                              enforced separation aided in the development of a "dual
                              kingdom" or "two kingdom" theology which specifies that
                              the "kingdom of God" (the church) is called out from the
                              "kingdom of earth" (society). Mennonite historian James
                              Juhnke notes that Mennonite communities exhibited "a decisive
                              dualism of church and world, reluctance or refusal to become involved
                              in public life, and a rejection of worldly pride accompanied by a
                              premium upon humility."6



                        
                              4Throughout much of post-Reformation Europe,
                                    Anabaptists were viewed as socially disruptive, if not
                                    seditious. The refusal of baptism within the state church was a
                                    rejection of the entire social order. At a time when membership
                                    in the church meant membership in society, remaining unbaptized
                                    was tantamount to anarchy. Although Mennonites accepted the
                                    government as being ordained by God to maintain authority in a
                                    "fallen" world, they also believed that they were not
                                    of this world and that their first allegiance was to God rather
                                    than the state. Furthermore, Mennonites rejected a formal church
                                    hierarchy due to its association with state-sponsored churches
                                    and because they felt it placed an artificial barrier between
                                    God and the believer. Concerning oath taking, Mennonites
                                    believed in a literal interpretation of the New Testament
                                    mandate to let your yea be yea and your nay, nay. For a fuller
                                    account of Mennonite belief and practice see John H. Yoder, ed.
                                    and trans., The Schleitheim Confession
                                                (Scottdale,
                                                Pa., 1977).
                                    Written in 1527 and largely attributed to Anabaptist Michael
                                    Sattler, this book was a confession of faith that gave focus and
                                    clarity to the Anabaptist movement and later, the Mennonite
                                    Church.
                              5For a general overview of Anabaptist and
                                    Mennonite belief and practice see Cornelius J. Dyck, An Introduction to Mennonite History: A Popular
                                          History of the Anabaptists and the Mennonites, 3rd
                                    ed. (Scottdale,
                                    Pa., 1993).
                              6James C. Juhnke, Vision,
                                          Doctrine, War: Mennonite Identity and Organization in
                                          America, 1890- 1930 (Scottdale,
                                    Pa., 1989),
                                    33.
                        


                        
                        During the early nineteenth century, hundreds of Mennonites from
                              northeast Switzerland, the Palatinate, and
                                          Bavaria settled across
                              the Midwest from Ohio to Iowa.7 These
                              immigrants chose to leave Europe for many reasons, among them the
                              turmoil caused by the Napoleonic wars, a series of poor harvests, and
                              the threat of mandatory military service. Like other German-speaking
                              immigrants, especially those with strong church affiliations,
                              Mennonites often came by way of chain migration. After establishing
                              themselves in the United States,
                              immigrants wrote back to relatives in Germany or Switzerland, tempting them with
                              opportunities for cheap land and the freedoms provided by a democratic
                                    government.8
                        German-speaking immigrants often arrived with only marginal assets, and
                              their new circumstances compelled them to develop original techniques
                              for agricultural and domestic production.9 Like
                              other settlers on the American frontier, they struggled to recreate
                              the familiar world they remembered, while also seeking to change and
                              improve it. This struggle often led to new forms of sociability and a
                              blending of heritages and inventions as they walked the path between
                              the known and the unknown. Mennonites who came to the United States
                              adopted new social and religious practices, such as public education
                              and the hiring of 
                                    7Samuel F. Pannabecker, Open Doors: The History of the General Conference
                                                Mennonite Church (Newton,
                                                  Kans., 1975),
                                          39.
                                    8Theron E Schlabach, Peace, Faith, Nation: Mennonites and Amish in
                                                Nineteenth-Century America
                                                  (Scottdale,
                                                  Pa.,
                                          1988), 33-34. For a discussion of chain migration in the
                                          German context see Linda Pickle, Contented
                                                Among Strangers: Rural German-Speaking Women and
                                                Their Families in the Nineteenth-Century
                                                Midwest (Urbana, Ill., 1996), 12. For a
                                          discussion of its Mennonite context see Schlabach, Peace, Faith, Nation, 38-42; Grant M.
                                          Stoltzfus, Mennonites of the Ohio and Eastern
                                                Conference From the Colonial Period in Pennsylvania
                                                to 1968 (Scottdale,
                                          Pa., 1969), 44. For an
                                          excellent overview of the reasons for German immigration
                                          and the acculturation process, see Walter D. Kamphoefner,
                                          "German Emigration Research, North, South, and East:
                                          Findings, Methods, and Open Questions," in People in Transit: German Migrations in
                                                Comparative Perspective, 1820-1930, eds. Dirk
                                          Hoerder and Jorg Nagler (
                                                Washington,
                                                      D.C., 1995), 19-34;
                                          Dirk Hoerder, "From Migrants to Ethnics:
                                          Acculturation in a Societal Framework," in European Migrants: Global and Local
                                                Perspectives, eds. Dirk Hoerder and Leslie Page
                                          Moch (Boston, Mass., 1996), 211-62. For more detailed
                                          information on specific groups of nineteenth-century
                                          Mennonite immigrants see Melvin Gingerich, The Mennonites in Iowa (Iowa City,
                                          Iowa,
                                          1939); J. C. Wenger, The Mennonites in
                                                Indiana and Michigan (Scottdale,
                                          Pa., 1961);
                                          Grant M. Stoltzfus, Mennonites of the Ohio
                                                and Eastern Conference From the Colonial Period in
                                                Pennsylvania to 1968 (Scottdale,
                                          Pa., 1969);
                                          Willard H. Smith, Mennonites in Illinois
                                          (Scottdale,
                                          Pa., 1983).
                                    9Pickle, Contented Among Strangers,
                                          8.
                              
                               professional pastors.10 Mennonite historian Willard H. Smith notes that during
                              this time, "Mennonite beliefs and practices were in a state of
                              flux, changing from the rigidly traditional to more progressive
                                    forms."11
                        Most European Mennonites had considered themselves beyond the pale of
                              public service or even civic involvement, since this often required an
                              oath of loyalty to the government. While those who immigrated to North
                              America initially preserved this separation, a few grew increasingly
                              willing to become politically involved after the American Revolution
                              and the enfranchisement of all white, landowning males.12 In the early nineteenth century, some
                                          Pennsylvania
                              Mennonites not only voted, but also were elected to minor public
                                    offices.13 Other Mennonites, however, fell
                              more closely in line with the view of Ohio
                              deacon David Metzler that politics was "an idolatrous Babel
                              business." Writing to a Pennsylvania bishop in 1846, Metzler
                              argued that Ohio Mennonites saw the
                              act of electing or hiring a person who would be required to take an
                              oath or use the sword as tantamount to doing so oneself.14
                        The majority of opinions likely lay between these two poles, neither
                              embracing political involvement nor completely shunning it. Asked in
                              1867 whether serving as a public road supervisor violated "the
                              principles of a nonresistant Christianity," church officials
                              responded that the 
                                    10William Cronon, George Miles, and
                                          Jay Gitlin, "Becoming West: Toward a New Meaning for
                                          Western History," in Under an Open Sky:
                                                Rethinking America's Western Past, eds.
                                          William Cronon, George Miles, and Jay Gitlin
                                          (New York,
                                          1992), 9-10. For a discussion of a flexible interpretation
                                          of the immigrant frontier experience, not necessarily
                                          bound by spatial or temporal limitations, see Pickle, Contented Among Strangers, 7-8. For a
                                          discussion of this struggle in a specifically Mennonite
                                          context see Royden K. Loewen, Family, Church,
                                                and Market: A Mennonite Community in the Old and the
                                                New Worlds, 1850-1930 (Urbana,
                                          Ill., 1993);
                                          Schlabach, Peace, Faith, Nation,
                                          128.
                                    11Smith, Mennonites in
                                                Illinois, 39.
                                    12Schlabach, Peace,
                                                Faith, Nation, 145. Eighteenth-century
                                          Mennonites who settled in southeastern Pennsylvania near much
                                          larger groups of Lutherans and Reformed Germans (also
                                          called Pennsylvania Dutch) were more likely to become
                                          politically involved at this time than other Mennonites.
                                          James O. Lehman and Steven M. Nolt contend that
                                          "politics within the Pennsylvania German milieu could
                                          appear less a compromise with an evil world than an
                                          expression of participation in a friendly ethnic
                                          community." J. Lehman and Nolt, Mennonites, Amish, and the American Civil War
                                                  (Baltimore,
                                                  Md., 2007),
                                          23.
                                    13J. Lehman and Nolt, Mennonites, Amish, and the American Civil War,
                                          23.
                                    14David Metzler to Jacob Hostetter and
                                          Christian Herr, September 2, 1846, quoted in Schlabach,
                                                Peace, Faith, Nation, 147. As
                                          noted before, most decisions concerning religious protocol
                                          were made at the local level. Nevertheless, an informal
                                          structure of church leadership developed in some areas
                                          throughout Europe and the United States. For an early
                                          history of Mennonites in the United States see Richard K.
                                          MacMaster, Land, Piety, Peoplehood: The
                                                Establishment of Mennonite Communities in America,
                                                1683-1790 (Scottdale,
                                          Pa., 1979).
                              
                               answer depended on the wording of
                              the state law, but that in any case, "great caution is
                                    necessary."15 Toward the end of the
                              century, opinions still varied on the ethics of service to one's
                              city, state, or country, but some were taking steps toward political
                              involvement through voting and local office holding.

                        In 1852, a group of roughly eighty emigrants from the canton of
                                          Bern,
                                          Switzerland, traveled to the
                                          United States. After passing
                              through two previously established Mennonite communities in
                              Ohio, the
                              emigrants ended their journey in Adams County, Indiana, within ten miles of a
                              smaller Mennonite congregation named the Baumgartner Church. Due to
                              their close proximity, these two groups communicated often and
                              provided each other with mutual aid.16
                        The Mennonites who arrived in Adams
                                    County in 1852 built their first permanent
                              building between 1856 and 1860, a few blocks away from what would
                              become Berne's business
                              district, and named themselves the "Munsterberg Church"
                              after their home church in Switzerland.17 The act represented a clear break from their
                              past. No longer living as tenants with an insubstantial hold on their
                              land, the congregation saw their church as a spiritual and physical
                              foothold in their new homeland. Constructing this building "was a
                              fairly radical new step," according to local historians David L.
                              Habegger and Karen C. Adams, "for it would have been possible for
                              them to divide into more congregations so that they could continue to
                              worship in their homes, as was being done in Switzerland and as the Amish continued to
                                    do."18 As Pickle notes of other German
                              religious groups in the nineteenth-century Midwest, the new church
                              "played a vital role in providing a center for the
                              immigrants' cultural and communal life."19



                        
                              15Schlabach, Peace, Faith,
                                          Nation, 156. Schlabach quotes from the Minutes of the Indiana-Michigan Conference,
                                          1864-1929 (Scottdale,
                                          Pa., [1930]), 12. The
                                    Indiana-Michigan Conference was alternately known as the Indiana
                                    Conference.
                              16David Baumgartner to "Friends in the
                                    Fatherland, 1849," Brief Historical Sketches
                                          of Seven Generations: Descendants of Deacon David
                                          Baumgartner, who was born in 1735, comp. and trans.
                                    S. H. Baumgartner (Indianapolis, 1908), 7-8, 13, 21.
                              17Naomi Lehman, Pilgrimage of a
                                          Congregation: First Mennonite Church Berne, Indiana
                                                (Berne, Ind., 1982), 23.
                              18Habegger and Adams, The Swiss
                                          of Adams and Wells Counties, 100. In Europe, meeting
                                    in members' homes was practiced in order to serve as a
                                    visible distinction in contrast to worldly churches that owned
                                    church buildings and lived within the states precepts, but also
                                    because Mennonites were simply not permitted by authorities to
                                    build such a building.
                              19Pickle, Contented Among
                                          Strangers, 78.
                        


                        
                        Strong community ties did not guarantee a robust economy. The Mennonites
                              of Adams
                                          County remained isolated from trade
                              and commerce. Fort Wayne, the nearest commercial market, was a
                              three-day journey, and the closest general store was nearly ten miles
                              away. When the Grand Rapids and Indiana Railroad made plans to lay a
                              track through Adams
                                    County in 1871, two farmers from the Munsterberg
                              congregation, John Hilty and Abraham Lehman, contacted the railroad
                              and suggested that the track run through their properties. With the
                              added influence of county commissioner Josiah Crawford, the railroad
                              scrapped its plans for building a station further south in exchange
                              for a deed to the land required for building a switch and depot.20 Secure in this victory, Hilty and Lehman
                              brought in two more Mennonites—surveyor Christian Stauffer and
                              carpenter Jacob Reusser—to draw up plats for the land and construct a
                              platform.
                        Despite further construction and steady population growth during the
                              1870s, Berne remained
                              unincorporated and was considered by visitors to be an isolated
                              outpost. Passing through the area in 1872, Susanna Ruth Krehbiel noted
                              that "'the Swiss in Berne I found were far behind the
                              times—they had just acquired the railroad, only one store, and a few
                              houses. One could hardly trudge through the freshly plowed earth
                              covered with melting snow across the street from the depot to the
                                    store."'21 Yet within a decade the
                              town boasted a drug store, hotel, stockyards, and grain elevator,
                              while the population stood at roughly two hundred.22
                        Due to the lack of records dating from before 1877, it is difficult to
                              ascertain how Mennonites reacted to Berne's growth. Town historian
                              Claren Neuenschwander states that "there were those in the
                              conservative community who were opposed to having a town in their
                                    midst."23




                        
                              20Nineteenth-century Mennonites, by and
                                    large, had few qualms about improving their economic situation
                                    or increasing their interaction with the marketplace as long as
                                    it did not compromise their religious beliefs or lead to
                                    ostentatious displays of wealth. For a discussion of Mennonite
                                    socioeconomic attitudes see Schlabachs chapter "Land,
                                    Wealth, Community" in Peace, Faith,
                                          Nation, 33-59. For a general study of Russian
                                    Mennonites' relationship to the broader world in the 1870s,
                                    due in part to their proximity to the railroad, see James C.
                                    Juhnke, A People of Two Kingdoms: The Political
                                          Acculturation of the Kansas Mennonites
                                                (Newton, Kans., 1975). For an in-depth
                                    look at the Russian Mennonite interaction with the marketplace
                                    in two small communities in Manitoba and Nebraska, see Loewen,
                                          Family, Church, and Market.
                              21Quoted in N. Lehman, Pilgrimage of a Congregation, 44.
                              22Neuenschwander, The Founding
                                          of Berne, Indiana, 10.
                              23Ibid., 3.
                        


                        
                        
                              Old Mennonite Church, c. 1900 and New Mennonite Church, 1912. The
                                    architecture of Berne's Mennonite churches
                                    reflected the community's growing prosperity and engagement
                                    with the outside world.
                              Courtesy of the Heritage Room of the Berne Public Library
                        


                        
                        Although he does not clearly state the identity of this
                              "conservative community," the term probably applies to
                              members of the Mennonite congregation, particularly considering the
                              general distaste that many nineteenth-century Mennonites had for urban
                              areas. Neuenschwander goes on to state that these conservatives
                              opposed the perceived "moral corruption [that] usually pervaded
                              centers of population."24 Keeping with the
                              idea of a separation between the church and the "fallen
                              world," it is possible that some of these rural Mennonites were
                              skeptical of the improved communication and access to distant places
                              that the railroad would bring. They may have viewed this development
                              not so much as a boon to the local community but more as a sordid
                              purveyor of worldliness and modernity. Nevertheless,
                                          Berne continued to
                              expand and was soon home to nearly a dozen Mennonite businesses
                              including two lumber companies, a hotel, a jewelry store, and a
                                    bank.25
                        During the late nineteenth century, the temperance movement took hold as
                              a fundamental criterion of religious and political identity in the
                              United States. Historian Richard Jensen has asserted that "from
                              the 1830s to the 1930s no debate at the local level agitated this
                              country more, year in and year out, than the question of controlling
                                    alcohol."26 The issue divided society
                              along many lines, including those between Protestants and Catholics,
                              native-born citizens and immigrants, men and women, and urban and
                              rural dwellers. As a result, the temperance movement inspired the
                              creation of many religious and secular organizations that linked
                              alcohol consumption to moral and economic problems and the harmful
                              effects of immigration and urbanization.
                        In Indiana, the Woman's Christian
                              Temperance Union (WCTU) pioneered one of the first grassroots
                              temperance initiatives during the 1870s, and by the early 1880s its
                              temperance societies existed in dozens 
                                    24Ibid.
                                    25Fankhauser, Thirtieth
                                                Anniversary Souvenir Edition of The Witness,
                                          13, 42, 68-69.
                                    26Richard J. Jensen, The
                                                Winning of the Midwest: Social and Political
                                                Conflict, 1888-1896 (Chicago,
                                                  Ill., 1971),
                                          xii, 58. See also Paul Kleppner, The Cross of
                                                Culture: A Social Analysis of Midwestern Politics,
                                                1850-1900 (New York, 1970), 69-77; Frederick
                                          Luebke, Germans in the New World: Essays in
                                          the History of Immigration
                                          (Urbana,
                                          Ill.,
                                          1990), 84-85. In general, I have chosen to use the word
                                          temperance instead of prohibition since it was often
                                          unclear as to whether the individuals and organizations
                                          discussed in this paper wished to control the sale of
                                          alcohol, restrict its consumption, or outlaw its
                                          production and distribution entirely.
                              
                               of towns from
                              Evansville to
                              Fort
                                    Wayne.27 In 1893, a professional reform
                              organization named the Anti-Saloon League was founded in
                              Ohio, and by
                              1900 its Indiana branch had
                              become the state's premier temperance organization. The
                              league's phenomenal success relied on a blend of central planning
                              and grassroots cooperation. One of the main components of this
                              combined approach was the organization's willingness to provide
                              local church congregations with lobbying and legal help.28 Claiming to represent "the Church in Action
                              Against the Saloon," the Anti-Saloon League built steam through
                              local, state, and national initiatives. For their part, many churches
                              came out in support of the temperance movement and its message that
                              "the saloon must go."29
                        Mennonite attitudes toward alcohol consumption transformed from
                              ambivalence to wide-scale support of temperance during the nineteenth
                                    century.30 Although visiting saloons was
                              always frowned upon due to the presence of gambling and prostitution,
                              many early nineteenth-century Mennonites had considered moderate
                              drinking in the home to be acceptable, as long as it did not lead to
                              drunkenness or alcoholism.31 In fact, Pennsylvania
                              Mennonite Abraham Overholt had 
                                    27Charles E. Canup, "The
                                          Temperance Movement in Indiana," Indiana
                                                Magazine of History, 16 (June 1920), 114-18.
                                          For a concise account of the WCTUs national efforts, see
                                          Edward Behr, Prohibition: Thirteen Years that
                                                Changed America (New
                                                  York, 1996), 35-45. For a
                                          more complete account of this organizations national and
                                          international programs, see Ian Tyrrell, Woman's World, Woman's Empire: The WCTU
                                                in International Perspective, 1880-1930
                                                  (
                                                Chapel Hill,
                                                  N.C.,
                                          1991).
                                    28Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The Emergence of an
                                                Industrial Commonwealth, 1880- 1920
                                                  (Indianapolis, 1968),
                                          494-98; Jensen, The Winning of the
                                                Midwest, 207. For a broader account of the
                                          development of the Anti-Saloon League and how its
                                          professionalism and use of new technologies affected the
                                          development of interest group lobbying and the temperance
                                          movement in general, see K. Austin Kerr, Organized for Prohibition: A New History of the
                                                Anti-Saloon League (New Haven,
                                                  Conn.,
                                          1985). For an account of the league's relationship
                                          with other temperance organizations including the WCTU,
                                          see Thomas R. Pegram, Battling Demon Rum: The
                                                Struggle for a Dry America, 1800-1933
                                                  (Chicago,
                                                  Ill.,
                                          1998).
                                    29Jack S. Blocker, American Temperance Movements: Cycles of
                                                Reform (Boston, Mass., 1989), 102- 103. This
                                          quote was the title of an Anti-Saloon League pamphlet
                                          modeled after a catechisms question-and-answer format. For
                                          a discussion of the importance that local church
                                          congregations held in the Anti-Saloon Leagues tactical
                                          strategy and the financial help these churches provided
                                          this organization see Ernest Hurst Cherrington, History of the Anti-Saloon League
                                                  (Westerville,
                                                  Ohio, 1913),
                                          61-62; John Marshall Barker, The Saloon
                                          Problem and Social Reform
                                          (Boston, Mass.,
                                          1905), 211.
                                    30Raymond Currie, Leo Driedger, and
                                          Rick Linden, "Abstinence and Moderation: Mixing
                                          Mennonite Drinking Norms," Mennonite
                                                Quarterly Review, 53 (October 1979),
                                          266-68.
                                    31Schlabach, Peace,
                                                Faith, Nation, 167.
                              
                               established a distillery under the
                              name "Old Overholt Whiskey."32 This
                              relationship with alcohol started to change as the result of larger
                              trends in nineteenth-century religious life that connected temperance
                              to Christian virtue. To a people who prided themselves on their piety,
                              self-restraint, and thrift, abstinence from alcohol became a
                              functional as well as a moral commitment. Writing about the Russian
                              Mennonites who immigrated to Kansas in the 1870s, Juhnke notes that
                              temperancene had special appeal as a religious and moral crusade which
                              involved the Mennonite conception of their own social status.
                              Mennonites were not afraid to differ from society, but to reject the
                              temperance movement would have been to contradict their belief in
                              their own moral superiority."33
                        Mennonites expressed their feelings on temperance through church
                              publications that were distributed at the conference level. In the
                              late nineteenth century, the two largest conferences in North America
                              were the General Conference Mennonites (GC) and the (old) Mennonite
                              Church (MC). GC Mennonites emphasized the autonomy of the local
                              congregation and, as a result, some of their churches tended to be
                              more progressive on social and political issues. MC churches were more
                              hierarchical in their organization and more conservative in their
                                    practices.34 Two of the largest
                              English-language publications for these conferences were The Mennonite and The Gospel Herald,
                              respectively. Both stressed the importance of temperance for personal
                              morality and social improvement, yet they often proved inconclusive in
                              their assessment of the role that Mennonites should play in the
                              temperance movement at large.
                        The First Mennonite Church of Berne was a GC church whose members would
                              have subscribed to The Mennonite. The magazine had
                              been established in 1885 by the Eastern District of the GC in
                                          Quakertown,
                                          Pennsylvania, but
                              in 1902 the GC assumed control of the paper itself and transferred its
                              publication to Berne.35 From the 
                                    32Harold S. Bender and Sam Steiner,
                                          "Alcohol," Global Anabaptist
                                                Mennonite Encyclopedia Online,
                                          http://www.gameo.org/encyclopedia/contents/A4385.html
                                          (accessed January 12, 2010).
                                    33Juhnke, A People of Two
                                                Kingdoms, 44. See also Schlabach, Peace, Faith, Nation, 170-71.
                                    34Edmund Kaufman and Henry Poettcker,
                                          "General Conference Mennonite Church (GCM)," Global Anabaptist Mennonite Encyclopedia
                                                Online, http://www.gameo.org/encyclopedia/
                                          contents/G4647ME.html (accessed May 20, 2010).
                                    35N. B. Grubb, "The Origin and
                                          Development of the Mennonite," The
                                                Mennonite, January 2, 1902, p. 2.
                              
                               beginning, The
                                    Mennonite printed various articles on temperance from
                              Sunday school lessons, biblical injunctions against gluttony, and
                              encouragements for "clean living" aimed at young adults to
                              testimonials from former drinkers. The magazine's June 1887 issue
                              featured the story of a Pittsburgh bar owner who came home to find his
                              children pretending to run a saloon. The six-year-old was
                              "tending the bar" for his two brothers and a neighbor boy.
                              The siblings were drunk and stumbling around the backyard, while the
                              third boy was passed out under a tree. This episode demoralized the
                              bar owner so much that he sold his business and gave up drinking.36 Stories like this appeared in The Mennonite throughout the 1880s and 1890s and continued
                              apace when the publication relocated to Berne.
                        Most of these articles were sentimental warnings about the potential
                              evils of alcohol consumption and did not necessarily call on readers
                              to take legal or political action against the liquor interest.
                              Political activism remained a contentious issue for Mennonites into
                              the twentieth century, and The Mennonite was
                              probably unwilling to take a strong position due to the GC emphasis on
                              congregational autonomy. In 1903, the publication ran a story on a
                              symposium of Mennonite leaders titled "The Proper Attitude of
                              Mennonites Toward Government." Two members of the five-man panel
                              agreed that voting was the "bounded duty" of all Mennonites;
                              one considered it right when "corruption in politics can thereby
                              be removed"; while the remaining two advised against voting since
                              it might violate precepts of swearing oaths and nonresistance. The
                              editor, for his part, judiciously staked out a middle path, writing
                              that "[t]hose who do not believe in voting are, to say the least,
                              just as scriptural as those who vote."37
                        Similarly, members of the MC debated the efficacy of Mennonite
                              participation in the temperance movement. Their publication, the Herald of Truth, initially had little to say on
                              the issue of temperance; it was not until Herald
                              founder John E Funk hired assistant editor John S. Coffman in 1879
                              that the publication began taking a harder line on the alcohol
                                    question.38 From the early 1880s until his
                              death in 1899, 
                                    36"Playing Saloon," The Mennonite, June 6, 1887, p.
                                          135.
                                    37H. G. Allebach,
                                          "Editorial," The Mennonite,
                                          January 30, 1903, p. 4.
                                    38James William Clemens, "Changes
                                          in the Herald of Truth's Support
                                          for Temperance and Prohibition" (senior thesis,
                                          Goshen College, 1976). See also Ralph Smucker,
                                          "Mennonite Attitudes toward Alcohol, 1870-1920"
                                          (senior thesis, Goshen College, 1961).
                              
                               Coffman tirelessly promoted the
                              virtues of abstinence and argued that the political support of
                              temperance legislation was morally justified.39
                              Many did not agree with Coffman's line of reasoning, as evidenced
                              by letters published in the Herald. For some,
                              temperance was either a personal or communal choice and had few
                              political implications.
                        Articles and letters in both The Mennonite and the Herald of Truth indicated a consensus that
                              personal abstinence was the Christian ideal, while opinions were split
                              on the issue of political participation in the temperance movement.
                              While Coffman's editorializing resonated with many of his
                              readers, they did not necessarily apply their convictions toward
                              political activism. For some Mennonite farmers, their rural locations
                              may have acted as a natural barrier to civic participation; other
                              congregants may not have perceived saloons as a threat to their moral
                              universe. Those who were politically minded had a host of acceptable
                              choices available to them as to how they might engage the issue. Since
                              the GC emphasized local autonomy, town congregations had the latitude
                              to participate in social and political initiatives drawing them closer
                              to mainstream United States
                                    society.40 As a result,
                                          Berne's
                              Mennonites were on the leading edge of a twentieth-century development
                              that witnessed the denomination linking personal abstinence to
                              political participation.
                        At its core, the Mennonite decision to embrace temperance entailed
                              questions about which kingdom they should try to improve, and whether
                              or not it was possible to improve both. As we shall see, the
                              Mennonites of Berne increasingly
                              saw temperance as a question not only of personal morality, but also
                              of the propriety of working to improve society through secular means.
                              The attitudes of this community represent a crystallization of how
                              some people of this faith tried to rectify their dual kingdom theology
                              with political participation.
                        Embodying the Berne
                              Mennonites' shift toward engagement with broader society was
                              nineteen-year-old Samuel E Sprunger. Sprunger, part of the emerging
                              second generation of Mennonites in Berne, had been only four years old at
                              the time of his family's immigration to the United States.41 He had no firsthand knowledge of Europe or of
                              the conflicts with the world experienced by his elders. In 1868,
                              this 
                                    39Smucker, "Mennonite Attitudes
                                          toward Alcohol, 1870-1920," 10.
                                    40Bender and Steiner,
                                          "Alcohol."
                                    41N. Lehman, Pilgrimage
                                                of a Congregation, 36.
                              
                               second-generation Mennonite was
                              chosen by lot to lead the Munsterberg Church, located about six blocks
                              from Berne's growing business
                                    district.42 Ordained by Christian
                              Baumgartner, minister of the Baumgartner Church, Sprunger held this
                              post until 1903.43 Historian Theron
                              Schlabach's concept of the Mennonite "quickening" best
                              describes the perceptible shift in attitudes to the outside world
                              during the period of Sprunger's service to the church.44 After the Civil War, Mennonite groups began
                              looking to other denominations in the United States for examples of
                              church organization. Many churches, including the Mennonites, began
                              founding Sunday schools, mission societies, and colleges. Schlabach
                              reasons that these and other organizational developments allowed
                              Mennonites to find common ground with American Protestants during the
                              late nineteenth century.
                        Prior to Sprunger's installment as pastor, the consumption of
                              alcoholic beverages appeared to be a common practice in this Mennonite
                              community. Church historian Naomi Lehman claims that at this time
                              "[n]early everybody kept wine and cider in the cellar at
                                    home."45 In fact Baumgartner, the
                              pastor who had ordained Sprunger, used to stop at a saloon prior to
                              his Sunday sermon. This practice did not bother the congregation as
                              long as it did not lead to drunken preaching.46
                        As a young pastor, Sprunger chose the cause of temperance to galvanize
                              the younger members of the newly established First Mennonite Church of
                              Berne. His church was located downtown, across the street 
                                    42Eva E Sprunger, The
                                                First Hundred Years: A History of The Mennonite
                                                Church in Adams County, Indiana, 1838-1938
                                                  (Berne, Ind., 1938), 23-24. The
                                          practice of choosing a minister by lot is explained in
                                          Sprungers book. In short, members of the congregation
                                          nominated candidates. Afterward, a special Sunday was
                                          designated for the lot to take place. On this date a
                                          number of books corresponding to the number of candidates
                                          were laid out on a table with a slip of paper placed in
                                          one. Candidates then filed past, selecting one book each.
                                          The candidate who chose the book with the slip in it was
                                          "chosen" as the new minister. Hereafter, Samuel
                                          E Sprunger will be referred to by last name only, all
                                          other Sprungers will be identified by first initial and
                                          last name.
                                    43N. Lehman, Pilgrimage
                                                of a Congregation, 61.
                                    44For a more in-depth explanation of
                                          this concept see Schlabach, "Reveille for Die Stillen
                                          Im Lande: A Stir Among Mennonites in the Late Nineteenth
                                          Century: Awakening or Quickening? Revival or
                                          Acculturation? Anabaptist or What?" Mennonite Quarterly Review, 51, no. 3 (1977),
                                          213-26. See also Schlabachs chapter "The Quickening
                                          at Centurys End," in Peace, Faith,
                                                Nation, 295-321.
                                    45N. Lehman, Pilgrimage
                                                of a Congregation, 350.
                                    46Sprunger, The First
                                                Hundred Years, 33-34.
                              
                               from the old Munsterberg building,
                              and was composed of members of the former Baumgartner and Munsterberg
                              congregations. Born and raised in the United States, these younger
                              members were, on the whole, engaged with society and open to new
                              attitudes and practices.47
                        This group's attitudes toward temperance may be viewed as an
                              expression of Schlabach's quickening and Jensen's assertions
                              about pietistic religious groups' crusades against alcohol.
                              Through the temperance movement, young Mennonites reinterpreted their
                              traditions of piety and collectivism to emphasize personal abstinence
                              and to engage in a communal fight against those who sold alcohol.48 They recognized the expediency of taking up a
                              popular cause, combining it with a moral dimension, and using it to
                              implement local political change. In doing so, they found a way to
                              remain true to their faith while connecting themselves to a broader
                              American culture.
                        While these ideological changes were taking place among the Mennonites,
                                          Berne continued its
                              steady growth through the platting of more land and the establishment
                              of new businesses. By the time of its incorporation
                                          Berne was home to
                              four saloons. For some in the community, this ushered in the specter
                              of drunkenness, violence, and public indecency, and led to a growing
                              concern over the alcohol issue. Although the Reformed Church and the
                              small, rural Evangelical Mennonite Church also had members worried
                              over the presence of saloons, First Mennonite Church quickly became
                              the leader in articulating and implementing the temperance position in
                                          Berne.49
                        During the winter months of 1886, nine Mennonites established the
                              Christlicher Mazigkeits-Verein von Bern (Christian Temperance Society
                              of 
                                    47For a discussion of the cultural
                                          flexibility of immigrant groups and how these groups
                                          adapted (rather than assimilated) to U.S. culture, see
                                          Kathleen Neils Conzen, et al., "The Invention of
                                          Ethnicity: A Perspective from the U.S.A.," Journal of American Ethnic History, 12
                                          (Fall 1992), 3- 41.
                                    48See Conzen, et al., "The
                                          Invention of Ethnicity," for a more detailed analysis
                                          of how symbols of ethnicity were reinterpreted as a
                                          process of adaptation. For a discussion on how some late
                                          nineteenth-century Mennonites were beginning to view the
                                          American political order as "an instrument for Gods
                                          purposes," see Schlabachs section "Mennonite
                                          progressivism and politics," in Peace,
                                                Faith, Nation, 163-72.
                                    49This Reformed Church was located a
                                          few blocks away from First Mennonite. It was a predecessor
                                          to Berne's United Church of Christ. The Evangelical
                                          Mennonite Church was an offshoot of a local Amish
                                          congregation and was earlier called the "Egli
                                          Amish," after its founder Henry Egly. See E. E. Rupp
                                          and Stan Nussbaum, "Evangelical Mennonite Church
                                          (United States)," Global Anabaptist
                                                Mennonite Encyclopedia Online,
                                          http://www.gameo.org/encyclopedia/ contents/E936.html
                                          (accessed May 20, 2010).
                              
                              
                              
                                    Fred Rohrer, one of Berne's most
                                          dedicated temperance advocates, at the office of The Witness with his employees. Rohrer
                                          stands on the far right.
                                    Courtesy of the Heritage Room of the Berne Public Library
                              
                              Berne, or CTSB) and met several
                              times to discuss the town's "awful situation."50 The most important decision resulting from
                              these meetings was a plan to incorporate Berne and thereby establish
                              control over the sale of liquor licenses. After winning a majority of
                              votes in a plebiscite, four Mennonites and two non-Mennonites drafted
                              a petition for the town's incorporation, which was accepted on
                              December 20, 1886. At this time, Berne had 330 residents, of whom
                              eighty-two were males of voting age.51
                        Chief among the CTSB's members was second-generation immigrant Fred
                              Rohrer, one of the strongest proponents for temperance in the
                              Mennonite church and the larger community, founder of
                                          Berne's weekly
                              newspaper The Witness, and author of the book Saloon Fight at Berne.52


                        
                              50Fankhauser, Thirtieth
                                          Anniversary Souvenir Edition of The Witness,
                                    10.
                              51Register of Orders Paid by
                                          the Treasurer of Adams County 1886-1896; Sprunger,
                                          The First Hundred Years, 129; Mennoniten
                                    Gemeinde, Gliederverzeichnis der Mennoniten
                                          Gemeinde bei Berne, Indiana; Mennonite Church, Sunday School Records, 1877-1890.
                              52Saloon Fight at Berne,
                                    which highlights Rohrers personal involvement in the crusade
                                    against the saloons, was written at the request of the
                                                Indiana state
                                    superintendent of the Anti-Saloon League, E. S. Shumaker, and
                                    includes a forward by James Franklin Hanly, governor of
                                                Indiana from 1905
                                    to 1909. It details Rohrer's perspective on the struggle of
                                    the CTSB to eject the saloons from Berne. I have attempted to
                                    corroborate Rohrers narrative with local newspapers and a number
                                    of secondary sources.
                        


                        
                        While Sprunger preached the virtues of temperance within the church,
                              Rohrer took the fight to the streets, allying the CTSB with national
                              temperance organizations.53 Although church
                              chronicler Eva Sprunger claims that some in the church "did not
                              sanction" Sprunger's decision to join the CTSB, it was not
                              long before the cause was not only accepted in the church but became
                              one of its animating concerns.54 Forty years
                              later, Rohrer claimed that "it was due to [Sprunger's]
                              untiring preaching of temperance and shunning of the place of
                              intoxicants that sentiment was built up."55
                        The CTSB was one of many voices in the temperance choir during the 1870s
                              and 1880s throughout the Midwest. During these years, temperance
                              organizations sponsored a slate of proposed prohibition amendments to
                              state constitutions (Iowa in 1880,
                                          Michigan and
                                          Wisconsin in 1881,
                              and Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio in 1882) as well
                              as the implementation of local option laws, which allowed cities and
                              counties voluntarily to become dry.56 Although
                                          Indiana had no local
                              option law on the books at this time, city governments did have the
                              power to control the sale of liquor licenses.
                        After Berne's incorporation, the
                              first order of business for the CTSB was to assert control over the
                              newly formed town board of trustees.57 Charter
                              member D. C. Sprunger, describing this undertaking as "Our Duty
                              as Christians," claimed that "it is not enough that we
                              personally shun intemperance, but that it is our duty as Christians to
                              do what we can to keep this drink evil under control."58 For these Mennonites, this "duty"
                              came by way of the ballot box. On March 30, 1887,
                                          Berne elected its
                              first trustees, treasurer, clerk, and marshal. All three trustee posts
                              went to pro-temperance Mennonite candidates, as did the uncontested
                                    
                                    53Ibid., 13.
                                    54Sprunger, The First
                                                Hundred Years, 130. In May 1887, the CTSB began
                                          holding its meetings at First Mennonite Church. Prior to
                                          this they were held in the upstairs hall of a downtown
                                          Mennonite-owned clothing store. See N. Lehman, Pilgrimage of a Congregation,
                                          351.
                                    55Fankhauser, Thirtieth
                                                Anniversary Souvenir Edition of The Witness,
                                          16.
                                    56Jensen, The Winning of
                                                the Midwest, 69-70.
                                    57Of the CTSBs nine charter members,
                                          three petitioned for Berne's
                                          incorporation. See Christlicher Mazigkeits-Verein von
                                          Bern, "Record Book of Membership of Christian
                                          Temperance Union, 1886-1959," section 4, box 1,
                                          Historical Room, First Mennonite Church,
                                                  Berne, Indiana.
                                    58Sprunger, The First
                                                Hundred Years, 130.
                              
                               position of treasurer. Non-CTSB
                              members took the unchallenged positions of clerk and town marshal.59
                        Once in office, the Mennonite civic leaders quickly addressed the matter
                              of "intoxicating liquors" with a three-page ordinance
                              covering the legal age at which one could sell "spirituous,
                              vinous, and malt liquors" and the quantities in which alcohol
                              could be sold. The ordinance also implemented a steep yearly fee of
                              $100 per license.60 Unfortunately for the CTSB,
                              gaining power was easier than maintaining it. In the following
                              election, pro-temperance Mennonites took the third district, but lost
                              the first by a single vote and the second by three.61
                        Two years later, the town trustees once again passed a liquor ordinance.
                              This new law was perhaps a compromise between pro-alcohol and
                              temperance forces, in that it maintained the $100-per-year license fee
                              for selling liquor and a $50 fee for selling wine and beer, but also
                              allowed for the immediate issue of liquor licenses.62 (Previous applicants had had to pay the fee one year
                              before they were issued a license.) Although the buy-in cost was
                              maintained, the law was a win for applicants seeking to begin making
                              money from their new ventures.
                        Compounding the setback of having to negotiate with the town's
                              liquor interest instead of passing ordinances by fiat, CTSB members
                              shared a growing suspicion that the county government was ambivalent
                              about their temperance crusade. "No matter how often we filed
                              complaints against the liquor sellers," Rohrer noted, "and
                              no matter how overwhelming and conclusive the evidence would be, it
                              was an utter impossibility at that time to get a conviction in any
                              court in Adams
                                          County against any violator of the
                              liquor laws."63
                        Rohrer's distrust of the county government on issues relating to
                              alcohol was well founded. The county courthouse was located in
                                          Decatur, the
                              largest town and thus the largest voting base in the county.
                                          Decatur was a
                              Democratic stronghold and a substantial part of its 
                                    59Christlicher Mazigkeits-Verein von
                                          Bern, "Record Book of Membership," 4; Petition
                                          of March 30, 1887, Register of Orders Paid by
                                                the Treasurer of Adams County 1886-1896;
                                          Mennoniten Gemeinde, Gliederverzeichnis der
                                                Mennoniten Gemeinde bei Berne, Indiana.
                                    60Petition of April 26, 1887, Register of Orders Paid by the Treasurer of
                                                Adams County 1886-1896.
                                    61Ibid., May 2, 1887.
                                    62Ibid., April 29, 1889.
                                    63Rohrer, Saloon Fight at
                                                Berne, 12.
                              
                               population did not support
                                    temperance.64 As far back as 1885, The [Decatur] Democrat
                              had kept abreast of temperance developments in many towns around
                                          Indiana, and the issue
                              remained a staple of its news stories for the next several decades.
                              One November 1885 issue, in a section titled "County News:
                              Berne" warned: "As a pointer, we would advise a certain
                              party to be more careful on the liquor matter, hereafter."65 As vague as this statement may be, it shows
                              that "the liquor matter" in Berne was an issue of countywide
                              interest even prior to the foundation of the CTSB. As the decades
                              passed, The Democrat generally leaned toward
                              criticizing, rather than complimenting, Berne's temperance
                              movement.
                        Rohrer stated that the CTSB continued to work throughout the 1890s
                              "as a leaven in the community and gradually changed the public
                              sentiment in favor of temperance and against saloons, so that by ten
                              years later the number of saloons decreased to three while the
                              population more than doubled."66 However, the
                              decade also saw a decline in the number of CTSB members running for
                              trustee positions in the town. Unable to create or maintain harsh laws
                              and penalties through direct involvement in city politics, the
                              organization began exploring other avenues for exerting control over
                                          Berne's
                              saloons.
                        In 1902, an oil boom in southern Adams County resulted in a large influx
                              of young men to work the wells. Speculations ran wild. A story in the
                              December 2nd issue of The Witness noted the founding
                              of the Berne Oil Company and its desire to raise $8,000, and included
                              the tantalizing suggestion that the stock could be worth twice the
                                    cost.67 Rohrer claimed that "[h]ouses could
                              not be built fast enough."68 Along with
                              the town's carpenters and masons, local saloonkeepers also saw an
                              increase in business. For many workers, these establishments were
                              places where they could not only drink alcohol and engage in leisure
                              activities, but also purchase all of the basic amenities of home,
                              including food, shelter, and companionship.69 The
                              presence of large numbers of strangers likely 
                                    64Jensen, The Winning of
                                                the Midwest, 31.
                                    65The
                                          [Decatur,
                                                  Indiana] Democrat (hereafter The
                                                Democrat), November 6, 1885, p. 2.
                                    66Rohrer, Saloon Fight at
                                                Berne, 12.
                                    67The Witness,
                                          September 4, 1902, p. 1.
                                    68Rohrer, Saloon Fight at
                                                Berne, 12.
                                    69Madelon Powers, "Decay from
                                          Within: The Inevitable Doom of the American Saloon,"
                                          in Drinking: Behavior and Belief in Modern
                                                History, eds. Susanna Barrows and Robin Room
                                                  (Berkeley,
                                                  Calif.,
                                          1991), 113; Behr, Prohibition,
                                          50.
                              
                               reawakened old fears of
                              "worldly" behavior ushered in by the creation of the
                              railroad twenty years earlier. This, in turn, amplified the
                              CTSB's fight to banish saloons from Berne.
                        The CTSB's stepped-up activity implies a class anxiety that may have
                              been at work. Although the society had existed in
                                          Berne before the oil
                              boom, the arrival of poor, transient laborers who patronized the
                              town's saloons likely added to consternation over the alcohol
                              issue. Berne's
                              second-generation Mennonite immigrants, who had prospered in
                              construction, banking, and commerce, believed themselves to be a part
                              of an established middle class. It is reasonable to assume that many
                              wished to distance themselves from the poverty and presumed ignorance
                              of their parents, many of whom had kept wine or hard cider in their
                              homes. In this regard, the CTSB mirrored the class aspects of the
                              national temperance movement, which was largely composed of
                              Protestant, middle-class, and native-born individuals who were
                              generally distrustful of immigrants and the poor.
                        As noted previously, the Adams County government was inclined to drag its
                              feet in enforcing the moral wishes of the vocal and aggressive CTSB.
                              However, beginning with the passage of the sweeping Nicholson Law in
                              1895, and culminating nine years later in the victory of
                              pro-temperance Republican James Franklin Hanly for state governor,
                              municipal and county governments increasingly found their authority
                              usurped by state law.70 Within this context, a new
                              plan for ousting the saloons from Berne was formulated on September 3,
                              1902, when Rev. E. G. Saunderson spoke in town on behalf of the
                              Indiana Anti-Saloon League of Indianapolis.71 At a
                              separate meeting held later that evening, Saunderson, Rohrer, E. M.
                              Ray (of the Evangelical Mennonite Church) and two other Mennonites
                              discussed the enforcement of the local option 
                                    70Phillips, Indiana in
                                                Transition, 495-96. For a more complete account
                                          of the Nicholson Law, which specified everything from the
                                          type of building in which alcohol could be sold to the
                                          "moral character" of the proprietor, and all
                                          subsequent temperance legislation passed in 1901, 1905,
                                          and 1907, see Canup, "The Temperance Movement in
                                          Indiana," 140-46.
                                    71The Anti-Saloon League regularly
                                          employed preachers to spread the word of its activities to
                                          a wide variety of denominations in order to compel voters
                                          to support any local, state, or national candidate with a
                                          commitment to temperance. Also in line with the leagues
                                          emphasis on grassroots initiatives, this organization
                                          encouraged the use of the "local option" to
                                          eject saloons from cities and towns. See Cherrington, History of the Anti-Saloon League,
                                          60-61; Canup, "The Temperance Movement in
                                          Indiana," 140-41; and Jensen, The
                                                Winning of the Midwest, 207.
                              
                               provision made possible by the
                              Nicholson Law.72 The provision empowered residents
                              of a town to prevent saloons from obtaining a liquor license by filing
                              a petition or remonstrance with the county government.73 The remonstrance had to be signed by the majority of
                              registered voters living in the town and filed with the county auditor
                              three days before the regular session of the board of commissioners.
                              Once these conditions were met, liquor licenses could not be issued
                              legally for two years within the town limits.74
                              Under the local option law, the CTSB had the state-sanctioned ability
                              to shut down Berne's saloons
                              and force the county's hand to comply with their demands.
                        The CTSB quickly formed a coalition of interested church folk and within
                              three days compiled remonstrances against each of
                                          Berne's
                                    saloons.75 With this document in hand, the
                                          Berne delegation went
                              to the Adams County Board of Commissioners with the intent of revoking
                              the saloons' liquor licenses. For this work, the CTSB lined up
                              three lawyers to represent their cause, including Charles J. Orbison,
                              attorney for the Indiana Anti-Saloon League. On the side of the
                              defense sat Evans Woolen, attorney for the state Liquor League. After
                              much legal wrangling, during which the defense suggested that all of
                              the people on the petition should be subpoenaed for questioning, the
                              commissioners accepted the legitimacy of the remonstrance and required
                                          Berne's saloons
                              to close shop.76 Although The
                                    Witness was exultant over this 
                                    72Rohrer, Saloon Fight at
                                                Berne, 13. For a more detailed account of
                                                  Indiana's
                                          laws at the turn of the century, see Joseph Rowntree and
                                          Arthur Sherwells The Temperance Problem and
                                                Social Reform (New
                                                  York, 1900),
                                          298-99.
                                    73The term "remonstrance"
                                          was used widely in newspapers and temperance literature at
                                          this time. In this context, it referred to a written
                                          petition that was signed by members of a given
                                          municipality and addressed to a county government
                                          expressing their desire to make the sale of alcoholic
                                          beverages illegal.
                                    74Canup, "The Temperance Movement
                                          in Indiana," 140-41.
                                    75Rohrer, Saloon Fight at
                                                Berne, 13; Adams County Board of Commissioners,
                                                Adams County Commission Record Q, March
                                                1902-May 1903. Several members of the
                                          Evangelical and Reformed churches in
                                                  Berne also supported
                                          temperance even though their congregations were roughly
                                          one-eighth the size of First Mennonite. Even though
                                          Mennonites counted for nearly half of the votes on the
                                          remonstrance, the support from these churches in gaining
                                          signatures was also important, since many Mennonites lived
                                          on farms outside the towns borders and could not be
                                          counted as registered voters. See Fankhauser, Thirtieth Anniversary Souvenir Edition of The
                                                Witness, 27-32.
                                    76The Witness,
                                          December 5, 1902, p. 1. Adams County Board of
                                          Commissioners, Adams County Commission Record
                                                Q, March 1902-May 1903, 340-61.
                              
                               development The
                                    Democrat reported sympathetically on the plight of saloon
                              owner Jacob Brennaman who, the paper noted, had no other option than
                              to move back to Europe: "Mr. Brennaman is a good citizen and
                                          Berne and the county
                              will miss him should he determine to locate elsewhere
                                    permanently."77
                        Although remonstrances were in place for each of the three saloons in
                              town, a new one had to be filed each time a new or existing saloon
                              owner petitioned for a license. Continuing the campaign, therefore,
                              required morale, money, and time. Sprunger gave the morale, the CTSB
                              produced the money, and Rohrer supplied the time. Under the leadership
                              of Sprunger, whom The Witness described as "a
                              general who could inspire all his followers with his enthusiasm and
                              conviction," and with the financial backing of twenty-one
                              Mennonite church members, the CTSB amassed $10,500 (over $230,000 in
                              2010 dollars) for the purpose of maintaining the fight against the
                                    saloons.78 Due to these efforts,
                                          Berne's
                              saloonkeepers began considering other options. Within a few months two
                              private clubhouses-the "Dry Town Club" and the
                              "Berne-Adams Club"-had appeared in town. Each club member
                              was given a key to a building where a large supply of liquor was kept.
                              Dues were collected on a regular basis in order to buy more liquor.
                              Since these were private organizations and not businesses,
                                          Berne's liquor
                              men felt they had finally managed an end run around the remonstrance
                              campaign. Greeting the presence of these "blind tigers" with
                              dismay, the CTSB also viewed this development as a test of their moral
                                    resolve.79 Rohrer commented: "When you
                              take the devil by his horns he is going to do some lively
                                    kicking."80 In contrast, the
                              Decatur
                              press enthused: "The Berne-Adams looks like a winner."81
                        Over the summer months of 1903, several men from Berne applied for liquor
                              licenses at the county courthouse. In direct violation of the local
                              option law, the board of commissioners approved their requests. 
                                    77The Democrat,
                                          March 5, 1903, p. 2.
                                    78Fankhauser, Thirtieth
                                                Anniversary Souvenir Edition of The Witness,
                                          16; Rohrer, Saloon Fight at Berne, 17.
                                          The inflation adjustment was made with the Bureau of Labor
                                          Statistics (CPI) Inflation Calculator,
                                          http://wwwbls.gov/data/inflation_calculator.htm (accessed
                                          November 12, 2010) and only provides inflation statistics
                                          as far back as 1913. This is a low estimate.
                                    79Rohrer, Saloon Fight at
                                                Berne, 22-23, 65.
                                    80lbid., 17.
                                    81The Democrat,
                                          March 19, 1903, p. 2.
                              
                               When the CTSB learned of this
                              development they were advised by the commissioners to take up the
                              matter with the circuit court. Now more intent than ever on bending
                              the county government to the temperance society's will, Rohrer
                              began biking the ten miles to Decatur on a daily basis to confront the
                              commissioners with a remonstrance even before a new license could be
                                    granted.82 Patronized in the press for his
                              persistence, Rohrer wrote: "I felt that I was an unwelcome guest
                              at the court house, and as the Decatur papers by that time began to
                              make fun of me and ridiculed me and roasted me, I felt somewhat
                                    annoyed."83
                        Rohrer's chagrin over this editorial scorn was quickly supplanted by
                              a much more serious concern. On the night after his third trip to
                              Decatur, someone cut a hole in one of his home's downstairs
                              window screens and slipped a stick of dynamite through it. The
                              explosion tore open the floor and ceiling, causing his wife Margret to
                              be thrown "from the bed to the middle of the room." Minutes
                              later, a second stick of dynamite blew up the front porch. It was
                              later determined this was meant to kill Rohrer as he came downstairs
                              to investigate the first explosion. Although the attack resulted in no
                              fatalities, a specter of violence settled over Berne.84
                              The Mennonite broke the news to its readers in
                              highly biblical language, stating that "[t]he attempt was made by
                              sons of Belial [the devil] in the spirit of hateful persecution
                              against a conscientious and fearless defender of righteousness as
                              opposed to sin and social iniquity."85 Even
                                    The Democrat was empathetic: "The attack
                              was one of the most cowardly ever attempted in the county and is
                              denounced in strong terms by every fair minded citizen. No clue has
                              yet been found to the cowards, but the officers will use every
                              possible effort to run them down and if successful the guilty ones
                              should and will be punished severely."86
                        The Mennonites of Berne were now faced
                              with a choice. They could end the fight immediately and extend
                              forgiveness to the perpetrators, attempt to compromise with the
                              town's liquor interest, or continue their crusade for temperance.
                              The decision was simple. They had come 
                                    82Rohrer, Saloon Fight at
                                                Berne, 26-27.
                                    83lIbid., 28-29.
                                    84Ibid.
                                    85H. G. Allebach,
                                          "Editorial," The Mennonite,
                                          September 24, 1903, p. 4.
                                    86The Democrat,
                                          September 17, 1903, p. 1.
                              
                               to see the temperance movement as
                              a central component of their religious identity. To end the fight or
                              compromise their position in any way would have constituted a betrayal
                              of their sense of piety and moral certitude. Thus, the dynamiting of
                              Rohrer's home was not viewed as a warning to stay out of politics
                              or as a reminder of their fundamental separation from worldly society,
                              but rather as a test of their religious convictions. Responding to the
                              attack, Sprunger called on his Mennonite congregation to give Rohrer a
                              vote of condolence, confidence, and support. Rohrer stated: "With
                              a few exceptions the vote was unanimous...over a thousand people were
                                    present."87 Although the unanimity of
                              the vote may be exaggerated, it is clear that the Mennonites of
                                          Berne supported the
                              editor of The Witness.88
                        Buoyed by the support of his church, Rohrer hired an armed detective from
                              the Pinkerton National Detective Agency to spy on
                                          Berne's saloons
                              and bring the perpetrators to justice.89 Although
                              nothing came of the investigation, Rohrer's decision to bring in
                              Pinkerton—an agency known for its vigilante law enforcement—shows just
                              how far the CTSB was willing to take the law into its own hands for
                              the purposes of moral victory, and raises important questions about
                              the group's commitment to nonviolence. Using every method of
                              influence at their command, Rohrer and the CTSB heightened their
                              offensive tactics against their opponents and maintained a strict
                              division between the righteous "drys" and the immoral
                              "wets." In response, The Democrat accused
                              The Witness of publishing a "tirade" against a
                                          Berne business owner,
                              Peter Soldner, for not signing the CTSB's remonstrances:
                                    "[The Witness] undertakes to not only
                              carry the fight personally against Mr. Soldner but his business is
                              thus threatened if he does not choose to join those who are waging war
                              on the saloon...Mr. Rohrer would feel justly indignant were he
                              threatened with business chastisement because he favors any certain
                                    thing."90

                        
                              87Rohrer, Saloon Fight at
                                          Berne, 58.
                              88N. Lehman, Pilgrimage of a
                                          Congregation, 179.
                              89Rohrer, Saloon Fight at
                                          Berne, 107-108. Founded by Allan Pinkerton in 1850
                                    under the name the North West Police Agency, the Pinkerton
                                    agency made its name infiltrating railroad unions and providing
                                    intelligence and security to the industrial elites. See Frank
                                    Morn, The Eye that Never Sleeps: A History of the
                                          Pinkerton National Detective Agency
                                                (Bloomington,
                                                Ind., 1982),
                                    25.
                              90The Democrat, June 11,
                                    1903, p.4.
                        


                        
                        Shortly after the dynamiting episode, Rohrer met with the three saloon
                              owners in what he referred to as "a council of war."91 Accompanied by the county sheriff, Rohrer
                              once again demanded that the saloons close their doors. Brandishing
                              accounts of thirty-three violations of the remonstrance compiled over
                              the summer months of 1903, Rohrer threatened to haul them in front of
                              a grand jury if they did not immediately capitulate. In an attempt to
                              strike a compromise, the saloon owners suggested that the CTSB buy
                              them out. The society convened a special meeting at the Mennonite
                              Church to deliberate on the saloon owners' proposal.
                              Understanding that their decision was of much larger than local
                              concern and could potentially have national implications, the CTSB
                              reasoned that to compromise would set a negative precedent for the
                              temperance movement; respect for the law was more important than
                              reconciliation. Accordingly, the CTSB decided that the most principled
                              course of action was to take the saloons to court.92 Chastising the group for its decision, The
                                    Democrat recommended that they use their $10,500 war chest
                              to pay saloon owners to shut down their operations: "The church
                              and the christian spirit is supposed to be behind this reform
                              enterprise, and they should now demonstrate a fraternalism, and show
                              the solidity of their christianity."93
                        The lawsuit's outcome was distressing for the CTSB. Of the thirty-
                              three reported violations, the grand jury handed down only six
                              indictments and a minimum fine was imposed on each saloonkeeper.
                              Despite this setback, the group's legal struggle continued and
                              finally resulted in the subpoena of over sixty suspected patrons of
                              the Berne saloons on November 18.94 Angered by having to appear before court,
                              several of these men visited Rohrer in his office to verbally assault
                              him. Louis Sprunger took this abuse a step further and accosted Rohrer
                              in the post office, knocking him to the floor. The
                                    Democrat blamed the violence on Rohrer, claiming that he
                              told L. Sprunger, "your' drunk and I won't talk to
                                    you."95 Whether or not this exchange
                              took place, Rohrer once again found himself the target of physical
                              violence. Two Mennonite women 
                                    91Rohrer, Saloon Fight at
                                                Berne, 36.
                                    92Ibid., 36-38.
                                    93The Democrat,
                                          September 17, 1903, p. 4.
                                    94Rohrer, Saloon Fight at
                                                Berne, 40-41.
                                    95The Democrat,
                                          November 26, 1903, p. 3.
                              
                              
                              
                                    Rohrers account of Berne's temperance
                                          battles, published in 1913, includes this colorful
                                          depiction of the violence that followed his efforts to
                                          close the saloons.
                                    Fred Rohrer, Saloon Fight at Berne, Ind. Not a
                                                Novel, but a Real History Truth Stranger than
                                                Fiction (1913)
                               who were also at the post office at the time came to
                              Rohrer's assistance. Helena Liechty "jumped on the
                              fellow's back and pulled his hair and scratched him with all her
                              might," while Salome Luginbill "rushed up in front of him
                              and...punched his nose." Menas Wulliman eventually broke up the
                              scuffle, whereupon Rohrer returned to his office. An hour after this
                              incident, Abe Bagley, the president of the town council, visited
                              Rohrer's office. According to Rohrer, Bagley "grabbed me
                              around the waist, jerked me off my stool and knocked me on the
                              floor." Along with Bagley, a mob of other saloon patrons
                              assembled outside the door with plans to beat him up and drive him out
                              of town. Fortunately for Rohrer, the town marshal appeared and ordered
                              the men out. After dispersing the crowd, the marshal advised Rohrer to
                              spend the night in Decatur and called the sheriff to escort him out of
                              town. Rohrer returned the next morning with a well-armed bodyguard. He
                              proclaimed in his book that  he had
                              felt "like an ox between a yoke on one side and an altar on the
                              other-ready for service or sacrifice."96
                        Berne's temperance
                              situation changed dramatically after Hanly was elected governor in
                              1904. His win put one of Indiana's most vocal prohibitionists
                              in the highest elected position in state government and solidified the
                              temperance movement's influence at that level. Furthermore, the
                              passage of the Moore Amendment widened the power of the Nicholson Law
                              to include the option of filing blanket (rather than individual)
                              remonstrances in a given city or township. Heartened by these
                              developments, Rohrer and the CTSB attempted to repeat the actions of
                              twenty years ago and install pro-temperance men on the town council.
                              At the state level, the Mennonites of Berne had a choice between two
                              different anti-alcohol platforms: the Republican Party or the
                              Prohibition Party. While the latter might appear to have been the
                              obvious choice for a community interested in combating saloons, the
                              Prohibitionists also supported women's suffrage, which was
                              unacceptable for the Berne Mennonites.97 As a result, most voted a straight Republican ticket.
                              After the dust settled on election day, the CTSB's drive to boost
                              voter turnout was rewarded with Berne's precincts reporting a
                              fifty-percent increase in votes for Republican candidates, when
                              compared to 1900 totals, for every position from governor to attorney
                                    general.98
                        In early 1906, Rohrer, accompanied by two of the new town trustees,
                              traveled to Decatur and informed the prosecuting attorney and the
                              judge that if the illegal saloons in Berne were not shut down 
                                    96Rohrer, Saloon Fight at
                                                Berne, 42, 45-46, 49-50, 55.
                                    97The Witness,
                                          November 11, 1904, p. 5. Arguably, this was also the
                                          reason why the Anti-Saloon League, as opposed to the WCTU,
                                          was more involved in aiding Berne's temperance
                                          crusade.
                                    98Election Record 1,
                                                November 1890-November 1916, Adams County
                                          Office of the Clerk, Decatur, Indiana, 200-201, 264-65. In
                                          general, I avoided correlating Berne's county and
                                          state vote tallies for any given political party with the
                                          voting habits of Berne's Mennonites or
                                          the activities of the CTSB. This was done for three
                                          reasons: 1) While it is clear that Mennonites were
                                          involving in local elections, is not clear to what degree
                                          they voted in county or state elections. 2) Since the CTSB
                                          was affiliated with the bipartisan Anti-Saloon League,
                                          which supported any candidate who supported temperance, it
                                          is possible pro-temperance individuals could vote a split
                                          ticket. 3) It is possible that all of
                                                  Berne's citizens
                                          voted for any given candidate for other reasons than their
                                          position on temperance. Nevertheless, I employed the
                                          voting records for the 1904 election because the Hanly-led
                                          Republican ticket was so strongly in favor of prohibition
                                          and Berne's
                                          voting patterns were so different from prior years that it
                                          was evident something had changed in this towns
                                          pro-temperance voting habits. Prior to 1904,
                                                  Berne's precincts
                                          were strongly Democratic yet the returns for this
                                          year's election showed a marked increase for state
                                          Republican Party candidates across the board.
                              
                               immediately, they would appeal
                              directly to Governor Hanly. The owners were once again called into
                              court and advised to plead guilty to two cases of operating without a
                              license. If they consented to these charges, the court guaranteed that
                              all remaining charges would be dropped. After the owners pleaded
                              guilty, the judge required each to pay $100 and serve thirty days in
                              the county jail. Due to the defendants' strenuous objections, the
                              judge then removed the jail time from the sentence in exchange for a
                              promise that they would immediately shut down their "blind
                              tigers" and never engage in selling alcohol again. Of
                                          Berne's three
                              remaining liquor retailers, two left town shortly thereafter.99 Rohrer
                              attributed the CTSB's triumph over the saloons to a combination
                              of Hanly's victory at the state level, the election of
                              CTSB-friendly candidates at the town level, and the will of the
                                    Lord.100
                        The last remaining saloon in Berne was transformed into a
                              restaurant that began specializing in the sale of a drink named
                              "Hop Cream."101 Two years later, under
                              the vigilant scrutiny of the CTSB and the local government, this
                              restaurant was closed after Indiana's legislature passed a search
                              and seizure bill that permitted local authorities to check places of
                              business for illegal goods. On the premises of this restaurant were
                              found large quantities of beer and whiskey. On March 9, 1907, under
                              the direction of the county sheriff, the last quantities of alcohol
                              intended for retail sale in the town of Berne were carried out into the
                              street and drained.102
                              Berne remained dry until the
                              repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment in 1932. The fight against
                                          Berne's saloons
                              had lasted over twenty years, cost a small fortune, and divided a
                              community. Writing years later in The Witness of the
                              CTSB's effort in closing a bar owned by Sam Kuntz, Rohrer
                              editorialized, "We not only fought him good and hard but even
                              took possession of his ground and removed the mortgage he had on
                                    it."103
                        Clearly, "the alcohol question" went deeper than trying to stop
                              a few men from sitting around a bar. Rather, this was a struggle for
                              Mennonites to assert control over Berne and give the congregation a
                              stake in political and civil society. Furthermore, the scorched-earth
                                    
                                    99Rohrer, Saloon Fight at
                                                Berne, 82-83.
                                    100Ibid., 146.
                                    101Ibid., 90.
                                    102Ibid., 97.
                                    103The Witness,
                                          February 13, 1912, p. 4.
                              
                               policy employed by the CTSB shows
                              to what degree this fight was an emotional issue, rooted in deeply
                              held feelings of identity.
                        Fred Rohrer's home stood at the intersection of
                                          Berne's Sprunger
                              and Washington streets. The former was named after one of the founding
                              Mennonite families of Berne, the latter after one of the
                              founding fathers of the United States. Rohrer, and by extension the
                              Mennonite community of Berne, stood at the intersection of
                              these two traditions. On the one hand, these Mennonites professed to
                              be the bearers of a tradition that emphasized humility, separation
                              from society, and the rejection of political involvement. On the
                              other, they founded the town of Berne, embroiled themselves in a
                              heated legal battle against Berne's saloons, and ran for
                              political office.
                        Over the course of fifty years, the adjustments made by the first
                              generation of Mennonites to their new physical surroundings slowly
                              gave way to the social and political acculturation of the second. Like
                              other pietistic German-speaking congregations, Berne's Mennonites adapted
                              to American society by blending familiar traditions with material and
                              religious innovations. Through a combination of piety and political
                              activism, they affirmed traditional religious beliefs of separation
                              from worldly practices even as they engaged in political activities
                              that integrated them into broader society. In short, these Mennonites
                              found a way to stand with a foot in both kingdoms.
                        Yet integration had its limits. While the temperance movement expanded
                              the parameters of what Berne's second-generation
                              Mennonites considered correct moral and political behavior, it did not
                              alter the trajectory of what was essentially a bid for local political
                              power. Berne's
                              Mennonites did not attempt to impose their temperance ideals on
                              surrounding towns and counties, nor did they take leading roles in the
                              state or national temperance crusade. In fact, several years later,
                              Sprunger's successor to the pastorate, J. W. Kliewer, declined an
                              offer by the Anti-Saloon League to run for state senator. Only Rohrer,
                              that irrepressible booster, capitalized on Berne's unique
                              circumstances by writing his book Saloon Fight at
                                    Berne, which was lauded by E. S. Shumaker, the state
                              superintendent of the Anti-Saloon League as the temperance
                              movement's Uncle Tom's Cabin.104 In the final analysis, the Mennonite foray
                              into temperance politics served less as a springboard to further
                              temperance activism and more as a baptism into political
                              participation.


                        
                              104Rohrer, Saloon Fight at
                                          Berne, 5.
                        


                        
                        During their temperance crusade, Berne's Mennonites had sought to
                              restore order to a town that they thought was spiraling out of
                              control. Nevertheless, the leniency of Sprunger's pastoral
                              leadership and the CTSB's adaptation of new techniques (in this
                              case, remonstrances and votes) did not restore Berne to the days before saloons
                              but instead created a new era of Mennonite political participation. By
                              encouraging voter registration, the CTSB helped a generation of church
                              members to see themselves not just as Mennonites, but also as members
                              of political organizations and parties. From this time on, it would be
                              difficult to make the claim that one could not have both a Mennonite
                              and a political identity-as demonstrated by Berne's rising voter
                              turnout throughout the early twentieth century.105
                              Berne's temperance crusade
                              is simply the most conspicuous aspect of a clear denominational shift
                              toward embracing temperance as both a moral and political issue across
                              the United
                                          States.'106
                        Mennonite political involvement was also aided by the democratic process
                              itself. No longer subjects of a prince or king, congregants joined a
                              process which encouraged popular involvement in politics and
                              grassroots reform. Like other pietistic groups that used their faith
                              to facilitate political participation, the Mennonites of
                                          Berne found that they
                              could be both good citizens and good Christians through the temperance
                              movement. Embracing this cause, which clearly had its share of
                              enemies, allowed them to feel a sense of continuity between their Old
                              World status as pious outsiders and a new sense of their own
                              importance in American politics and society.
                        Giving credit to the Lord for the outcome of their political and legal
                              struggle, Rohrer closed his book by stating: "And, remember, had
                              God not been in this movement against the saloons in
                                          Berne I would never
                              have lived through it to tell the story."107
                              These Mennonites were longer passive martyrs dying for their faith at
                              the hands of magistrates; rather, they believed that God had preserved
                              them to do his holy work.



                        
                              105[Adams County] Election
                                          Record 1, November 1890-November 1916.
                              106Bender and Steiner,
                                    "Alcohol."
                              107Rohrer, Saloon Fight at
                                          Berne, 146.
                        
                  

                  


                  
                        Indian Removal and the Transformation of Northern Indiana
                        THOMAS J. CAMPION
                        In 1907, Hoosier cartoonist John T. McCutcheon created his famous
                              "Injun Summer" fable for the Chicago
                                    Tribune. The Tribune continued to reprint
                              the popular piece every fall until 1992, when the paper withdrew it
                              because of readers' growing discomfort with its portrayal of
                              Native Americans. The two-panel cartoon, with accompanying text,
                              depicts an old man and a little boy sitting in front of a cornfield,
                              filled with harvested shocks, as darkness falls. The old man spins a
                              yarn in which the field turns into a dancing ground for the
                              "sperrits" of long-departed Indians. According to the old
                              man, the Indians "all went away and died, so they ain't no
                              more left."1
                        The Indians had not died out and not all of them went away. They were,
                              however, largely absent from the land, with those who remained
                              marginalized and apparently out of sight to McCutcheon. The cartoonist
                              had grown up in Tippecanoe County, Indiana, in the 1870s, only a generation
                              or two removed from their presence. Indeed, 
                                    Thomas J. Campion of Munster, Indiana, passed away in June
                                          2010. He was a graduate of Indiana University and received
                                          a master's degree in history from Loyola University.
                                          This article is based upon his masters thesis.
                                    1"Injun Summer" cartoon,
                                          www.chicagotribune.com/news/politics/chi-150cart20080815082
                                          204,0,57265.photo (accessed October 18, 2010).
                              
                               he remembered "corn and
                              Indian traditions" as dominant themes of his boyhood.2
                        The white settlement of the American heartland could not have taken place
                              without the dispossession of the Indians—the subtext of
                              McCutcheon's cartoon. Removal of the native peoples from the
                              lands between the Appalachians and the Mississippi was a major
                              preoccupation of the U.S. government in the early nineteenth century.
                              Yet this process, and the social and ecological transformation of
                              which it was a part, is often glossed over in popular histories of
                                          Indiana.3
                        This article looks at the process of dispossession and removal in
                              northern Indiana, focusing on
                              the three million acres ceded by the Potawatomi in 1832. The cession
                              began a transformation of the area from communally held tribal land to
                              private property through the mechanism of federal land policy. The
                              success of the process required close connections between the
                                          U.S. representatives who negotiated
                              land cessions and distributed annuity payments, the traders upon whom
                              Indians depended for the manufactured goods that had become
                              necessities, and the speculators who bought up cheap land. The areas
                              wrested from the Indians, including McCutcheon's rural
                                          Indiana, were
                              integrated into white America. In 1855, all federal land offices in
                                          Indiana-including that
                              at Winamac in Pulaski
                                                County from the 1832 cession—were
                              consolidated into one in Indianapolis. The transformation of Indian
                              country into American heartland that had begun with the land cessions
                              of two decades earlier was now largely complete.4
                        Although the drive for the appropriation of Indian land in the Old
                              Northwest began in the colonial period, it accelerated with the end of
                              the American Revolution and the birth of the United
                                          States. 
                                    2John T. McCutcheon,
                                          www.depauw.edu/library/archives/ijhof/inductees/mccutcheonj.htm
                                          (accessed October 13, 2010); Sid Smith, "Injun
                                          Summer," www.chicagotribune.com/news/
                                          politics/chi-chicagodays-injunsummer-story,0,643335.story
                                          (accessed October 13, 2010).
                                    3The process is well represented by
                                          the Bailly Homestead Site in the Dunes National Lakeshore,
                                                  Porter County,
                                                  Indiana. The
                                          interpretive signs at the site are classic examples of the
                                          denial of racial and cultural mixing in nineteenth-century
                                                  Indiana. One
                                          sign portrays Marie Bailly and her children as a
                                          stereotypical white pioneer family greeting Indians clad
                                          mostly in deerskins. Marie was the Ottawa wife of a French
                                          trader and, according to Susan Sleeper-Smith, spoke poor
                                          French, if any, and no English; her Indian neighbors and
                                          relatives had been involved for generations in the fur
                                          trade, in which cloth was a key commodity. In reality, it
                                          may have been hard to distinguish Baillys from Potawatomi
                                          by sight. Susan Sleeper-Smith, Indian Women
                                                and French Men: Rethinking Cultural Encounter in the
                                                Western Great Lakes (Amherst,
                                                  Mass.,
                                          2001), 156-57.
                                    4E. Wade Hone, Land and
                                                Property Research in the United States
                                                  (Salt Lake City,
                                                  Utah, 1997), 334,
                                          342.
                              
                              
                              
                                    Tribal lands in the early Indiana Territory.
                                    Indiana Geological Report, 1882. Courtesy of Herman B Wells
                                          Library Indiana University
                              
                              
                              
                                    From the early 1800s to the 1830s, tribal lands disappeared
                                          with each cession to the U.S. government.
                                    Indiania Geological Report, 1882. Courtesy of Herman B Wells
                                          Library, Indiana University
                              
                               While settlers and speculators
                              desired this land, the new federal government looked to it as a source
                              of revenue. A Native confederacy fought tenaciously in defense of the
                              land, inflicting a humiliating defeat on Arthur St. Clair's army
                              on the western edge of the Ohio Territory in 1791. The first military
                              buildup in U.S. history, Anthony Wayne's 1794 victory at Fallen
                              Timbers, and waning British support for their native allies led to the
                              signing of the Treaty of Greenville in 1795. Twelve Indian tribes,
                              including the Potawatomi and Miami, ceded the majority of the present
                              state of Ohio and a slice of southeast
                                          Indiana. The treaty
                              created the original nucleus of the public domain in the Old
                              Northwest. The federal government obtained additional cessions in the
                              first decade of the nineteenth century as the administrations of
                              Thomas Jefferson and James Madison committed to obtaining more land
                              for settlement. Indiana Territorial
                              Governor William Henry Harrison oversaw most of these cessions. His
                              transactions, intended to extend the Greenville boundary, culminated
                              in the 1809 Treaty of Fort Wayne, which added 2.8 million acres in
                              south-central Indiana to the public
                              domain. This cession sparked Native opposition and helped fuel the
                              resistance movement of the Shawnee Prophet and Tecumseh, who received
                              considerable support from tribes in northern Indiana, Illinois, and
                              Wisconsin.5
                        With the acquisition of Indian land came the question of what to do with
                              the Indians. Jefferson emphasized the goal of "civilizing"
                              the Indians-turning them into Christian farmers who would use animal
                              power and male, not female, labor in the fields. This transformation,
                              he hoped, would free up "excess" land for white settlement.
                              The Louisiana Purchase opened the further possibility of moving
                              Indians west of the Mississippi onto the excess lands of other Native
                              peoples like the Osage.6
                        The War of 1812 proved a decisive setback for the Native Americans
                              throughout the Old Northwest. In northern Indiana, most Potawatomi supported
                              Tecumseh's movement and the British; Harrison characterized them
                              as "our most cruel and inveterate enemies." Miami 
                                    5R. David Edmunds, The
                                                Potawatomis: Keepers of the Fire
                                                  (Norman, Okla., 1978), 116-77;
                                          Reginald Horsman, Expansion and American
                                                Indian Policy, 1783-1812
                                                  (Norman, Okla., 1967), 142-57,
                                          166-67; Malcolm J. Rohrbough, The Land Office
                                                Business: The Settlement and Administration of
                                                American Public Lands, 1789-1837
                                                  (New
                                                  York, 1968), 131; Anthony
                                          FE C. Wallace, Jefferson and the Indians: The
                                                Tragic Fate of the First Americans
                                                  (Cambridge,
                                                  Mass.,
                                          1999), 226-40.
                                    6Wallace, Jefferson and
                                                the Indians, 222-25, 254-60; Horsman, Expansion
                                          and American Indian Policy, 104-114.
                              
                               leaders had opposed the Shawnee
                              brothers and tried to stay neutral, although some young warriors
                              joined in the Kickapoo-led attack on Fort Harrison at
                                          Terre Haute.
                              The Miami nevertheless found their villages burned by the Americans,
                              forcing them to defend themselves on the Mississinewa River in
                              December 1812. Historian Stewart Rafert sees these attacks as
                              originating both from the American desire for Miami land in central
                                          Indiana, and from Miami
                              resistance to further cessions after 1809. After Tecumseh's death
                              in 1813, his movement fell apart, and any real possibility of British
                              support for Indian resistance ended shortly after the war. The outcome
                              of the war for Indians in the Midwest was, in the words of historian
                              Lucy Eldersveld Murphy, "loss of land, status, wealth, and
                              power." Armed resistance was no longer an effective strategy for
                              native peoples fighting their dispossession. As the government
                              completed its survey of the 1809 cession, and Indiana achieved statehood in 1816,
                              pressure intensified on midwestern tribes to give up their land.7
                        As early as the Treaty of Greenville, Native people had begun to receive
                              annuities in cash and goods from the federal government, which rose as
                              they sold more land. These payments became increasingly vital to the
                              Native economy, providing needed income for exchange with white
                              traders. Treaties often included provisions designed to further the
                              civilizing mission; more commonly, a significant portion of money paid
                              for land was earmarked to reimburse traders' claims for debts for
                              goods bought on credit. The fur trade persisted, although under stress
                              from decreasing animal populations. European demand for raccoon skins
                              increased in the 1830s, and areas like the Kankakee marsh continued to
                              supply furs. Indian traders, however, found a steadier source of
                              income in treaty money and schemed to get their hands on it. With
                              their considerable influence among Indians, they played an important
                              role in negotiations.8




                        
                              7Edmunds, The Potawatomis,
                                    153-206; Stewart Rafert, The Miami Indians of
                                          Indiana: A Persistent People, 1654-1994
                                                (Indianapolis, 1996),
                                    73-76; Lucy Eldersveld Murphy, A Gathering of
                                          Rivers: Indians, Metis, and Mining in the Western Great
                                          Lakes, 1737-1832 (Lincoln, Nebr., 2000), 7 (quote),
                                    76.
                              8Edmunds, The Potawatomis,
                                    215; Rafert, The Miami Indians of Indiana,
                                    80-85; James A. Clifton, The Prairie People:
                                          Continuity and Change in Potawatomi Indian Culture,
                                          1665-1965 (Lawrence,
                                    Kans., 1977), 187; James L.
                                    Clayton, "The Growth and Economic Significance of the
                                    American Fur Trade, 1790-1890," in Aspects of
                                          the Fur Trade: Selected Papers of the 1965 North American
                                          Fur Trade Conference (St.
                                                Paul, Minn., 1967),
                                    67-69.
                        


                        
                        Land cessions resumed after the war. In 1818, the Miami surrendered most
                              of their land south of the Wabash in the New Purchase. The
                              Delaware, who had settled in east-central Indiana after 1795, agreed to move
                              west, and most did so in the early 1820s. The Kickapoo, in western
                                          Indiana and
                                          Illinois, also agreed
                              to leave, giving up Illinois land claims
                              that overlapped those of the Potawatomi. In northern
                                          Indiana, the Potawatomi
                              began to sell land. In 1818, with the Miami, they sold a tract north
                              of the Wabash and west of the Tippecanoe. Three years
                              later, in a treaty signed at the site of present-day
                                          Chicago, the tribe
                              sold much of their land in southern Michigan, also surrendering a strip of
                              northern Indiana south of the
                              state line and east of the St. Joseph River.9
                        As the result of military defeat and land cessions, the federal
                              government took charge of millions of acres in the public domain. The
                              1796 Land Act established the office of Surveyor-General and provided
                              for the sale of land at public auction for a minimum price of $2 an
                              acre. Originally, the smallest tract available for purchase was one
                              section (640 acres), which meant that small farmers would need the
                              huge sum of $1,280 for purchase. An 1800 act allowed the sale of
                              half-sections and set up credit terms for payment. It also set up the
                              first land offices in Ohio. The first office in Indiana opened at
                              Vincennes four
                              years later. By 1812, eighteen land offices distributed former Native
                              holdings, and Congress had created the General Land Office (GLO)
                              within the Treasury Department headed by the Commissioner of Public
                                    Lands.10
                        After the War of 1812, the government surveyed and sold large tracts of
                              land, but the panic and depression of 1819 (fueled in part by land
                              speculation) left the GLO with a great deal of paper money of little
                              value, as well as with huge defaults on amounts owed on credit. The
                              1820 Land Act, created in response to the crisis, eliminated credit
                              but reduced the minimum land price to $1.25 an acre. Additionally, the
                              minimum purchase was reduced first to eighty acres and later to forty.
                              Land 
                                    9Charles J. Kappler, comp. and ed.,
                                                Indian Treaties, 1778-1883
                                          (New
                                          York, 1972), 168-69, 170- 74, 182-83, 198-201; Edmunds,
                                                The Potawatomis, 218-21; Clifton,
                                                The Prairie People, 223-26;
                                          Rafert, The Miami Indians of Indiana,
                                          80; Bert Anson, The Miami Indians
                                          (Norman,
                                          Okla., 1970), 179-81. Both Kickapoo and Delaware
                                          were joining kinspeople who had migrated west earlier to
                                          withdraw from the conflicts during and after the American
                                          Revolution. John P Bowes, Exiles and
                                                Pioneers: Eastern Indians in the Trans-Mississippi
                                                West (New York, 2007), 40-42; Helen Hornbeck
                                          Tanner, ed., Atlas of Great Lakes Indian
                                                History (Norman,
                                          Okla., 1987), 64, 95.
                                    10Rohrbough, The Land
                                                Office Business, 18-50; Paul Wallace Gates, History of Public Land Law Development
                                          (
                                                Washington,
                                                      D.C., 1968), 125-29.
                              
                               became more accessible during the
                              great flood of sales in the 1830s, as Indian removal reached its
                              climax. Indian policy and land policy worked together. They were major
                              aspects of the federal government presence on the frontier and
                              important sources of federal patronage. When John Tipton took over as
                              Indian agent at Fort Wayne in 1823, the old fort buildings housed both
                              his offices and the land office.11
                        By 1826, the tribes remaining in Indiana, mostly Potawatomi and Miami,
                              faced an assault on their remaining lands. They were not nomadic
                              hunters, as those who sought to justify their dispossession often
                              portrayed them. Indians grew corn and other crops, and their summer
                              economy in permanent villages centered on this cultivation; by the
                              early 1800s, they had also acquired horses and other livestock. Indian
                              women were the cultivators-using only hand tools, which limited
                              productivity-but removal advocates such as Lewis Cass ignored the
                              female economic role. At the same time, the economies of Native
                              peoples were increasingly oriented to trade with whites and to the
                              world economy. Trade brought to them firearms and ammunition, metal
                              utensils, and cloth, along with less utilitarian items like tea,
                              jewelry, and alcohol (which had a notoriously debilitating effect on
                              Indian society). Native traders were tied to the world market, as
                              eastern firms like the American Fur Company and Suydam & Sage sold
                              furs to a London broker who marketed them in Europe.12
                        By 1826, the Miami found themselves more directly beleaguered by
                              settlement than the Potawatomi. They had sold most of their territory
                              in 1818, but much of their remaining land and many of their villages
                              were located along the Wabash, in the path of the projected Wabash and
                              Erie Canal. At the same time, they had a smart, acculturated leader in
                              Jean-Baptiste Richardville. Son of a Frenchman and a Miami woman who
                              were both involved in the fur trade, Richardville was in his sixties
                              at this time. He had been a young village leader during the Northwest
                              Confederacy; the American attacks in the War of 1812 had forced him
                              over to the British side. Richardville came to the fore as the central
                                    
                                    11Rohrbough, The Land
                                                Office Business, 89-179; Gates, History of Public Land Law Development,
                                          140-43; Nellie Armstrong Robertson and Dorothy Riker,
                                          eds., The John Tipton Papers, Vol. 1,
                                          1809-1827 (3 vols., Indianapolis, 1942),
                                          11.
                                    12Clifton, The Prairie
                                                People, 243-44; Edmunds, The
                                                Potawatomis, 15-23, 226-28; Clayton, "The
                                          Growth and Economic Significance of the American Fur
                                          Trade," 68; Robert A. Trennert, Jr., Indian Traders on the Middle Border: The House of
                                                Ewing, 1827-54 (Lincoln,
                                          Nebr., 1981),
                                          62.
                              
                               leader of the Miami in the postwar
                              period, as diplomacy and creative accommodation became the chief means
                              of defending land and autonomy. While Richardville grew wealthy from
                              trade and the material favors granted him in treaties, he managed to
                              delay removal for the majority of Miami and to avoid it altogether for
                                    some.13
                        Native societies did not perceive land in the same manner as the
                              developing American capitalist society that was pushing them aside. In
                              traditional Native society, land was not something that could be
                              bought or sold; however, decades of Euro-American influence challenged
                              and modified those views. During the period of armed resistance to
                              U.S. expansion, the Northwest Confederacy had promoted a view of land
                              as intertribal property belonging to all Indians. Mohawk leader Joseph
                              Brant had been a proponent of this view, and Tecumseh revived the 
                              concept in his efforts to unite against white expansion. From 1795 to the
                              1830s, tribes ceded their lands even as individuals and small family
                              groups—often of mixed ancestry—received a few sections of land. Still,
                              Indian societies did not fully incorporate the concept of land as
                              individual property, as a commodity and a source of profit.14
                        After over a century of trade and interaction with whites, Native society
                              in the Midwest had culturally adapted to a degree and had 
                              experienced some prosperity from the continuing fur trade as well as from
                              annuity payments for land. Despite this trend, inequality continued to
                              grow, as illustrated by artist George Winter's sketch of a family
                              of "Mendicant Indians" with a bow and arrows but without
                              horses or guns, at a time when Richardville was allegedly becoming one
                              of the richest men in Indiana.15
                        Historians have pointed out similarities between the everyday lives of
                              white and Indian people on the frontier in this period. Whites, 
                                    
                                    13Rafert, The Miami
                                                Indians of Indiana, 11-14, 63-66, 79-80, 86-87,
                                          102; Anson, The Miami Indians, 3-27,
                                          182, 187-91; Bradley J. Birzer, "Entangling Empires,
                                          Fracturing Frontiers: Jean- Baptiste Richardville and the
                                          Quest for Miami Autonomy, 1760-1841" (Ph.D.
                                          dissertation, Indiana University, 1998). Other Miami
                                          leaders, including Francis Godfroy and Meshingomesia, were
                                          prominent in helping many of their people avoid
                                          removal.
                                    14Richard E. White, The
                                                Middle Ground: Indians, Empires, and Republics in
                                                the Great Lakes Region, 1650-1815
                                          (New York,
                                          1991), 441, 515; Horsman, Expansion and
                                                American Indian Policy, 252-53.
                                    15Sarah E. Cooke and Rachel Ramdhanyi,
                                          comps., Indians and a Changing Frontier: The
                                          Art of George Winter (Indianapolis, 1993), 98;
                                          Rafert, The Miami Indians of Indiana,
                                          102; Anson, The Miami Indians, 188;
                                          Birzer, "Entangling Empires, Fracturing
                                          Frontiers," 185, 202-203.
                              
                               however, were citizens of a state
                              based on capitalism and private property. In contrast, the
                              government's assertion of sovereignty, backed up by military
                              victory, subjected the Native population to federal government
                              supervision. White settlers may have relied heavily on subsistence
                              production, barter, or what historian Susan E. Gray calls
                              "neighborly exchanges," but they participated in a society
                              and institutions that had an aggressive, capitalist view of land.16
                        The 1826 Treaty of the Mississinewa made serious inroads on Indian land
                              north of the Wabash. Government commissioners included John Tipton, a
                              prominent figure in white-Indian relations in Indiana. A hero of the Battle of
                              Tippecanoe, Tipton spent the next years filling a variety of state
                              political offices and helped to negotiate the Indiana-Illinois border in 1821. In
                              1823, he became Indian agent at Fort Wayne; in 1824, he became the
                              county agent in charge of land sales. In 1828, he was instrumental in
                              moving the agency to what soon became the town of Logansport, arguing
                              that the new location was more central to Indian settlements.
                              Interestingly, he also held considerable real estate holdings in the
                              nascent town, among them the first flour mill. Tipton held the post of
                              Indian agent until he was elected to the U.S. Senate in 1831. As a
                              senator, he served on the Committee on Indian Affairs and continued to
                              take an interest in removal policy and in the organization of Indian
                              Territory west of the Mississippi. He maintained an abiding interest
                              in Indian lands and their private acquisition, often by himself or his
                              associates. His varied correspondents included Baptist missionary
                              Isaac McCoy, an advocate of the civilizing mission and removal; trader
                              Allen Hamilton, an Indian agent and Fort Wayne banker; and prominent
                              Indianapolis lawyer and banker Calvin Fletcher.17
                        The Treaty of the Mississinewa was a disappointment to those hoping to
                              push the Potawatomi and Miami out of northern Indiana. Lewis Cass, governor and
                              Indian superintendent of Michigan Territory and a key figure in
                              regional Indian policy, was one of the treaty commissioners along with
                              Tipton and Indiana governor James
                              Ray. The commissioners' purpose, as expressed by Governor Ray,
                              was to "endeavour to extinguish their [the Indians'] title
                              to all the Lands claimed by them within the 
                                    16Susan E. Gray, "Limits and
                                          Possibilities: White-Indian Relations in Western Michigan
                                          in the Era of Removal," Michigan
                                                Historical Review, 20 (Fall 1994), 71-91
                                          (quoted on 88-89).
                                    17Robertson and Riker, eds., The John Tipton Papers, Vol. 1,
                                          3-53.
                              
                              
                              
                                    George Winter, Council of Keewaunay, 1836. For each treaty
                                          signing, a council was convened to discuss terms.
                                    Courtesy of Glenn A. Black Laboratory of Archaeology Indiana
                                          University
                               State." At the treaty signing, Cass lectured the
                              Indians on the hopelessness of their position and the need for them to
                              move west of the Mississippi. The governor singled out McCoy, also
                              present at the signing, as the Indians' friend who would help
                              them relocate. Cass emphasized the decline of game in the region and
                              the effects of alcohol on Native economy. He told them, "[Y]ou
                              have a large tract of land here, which is of no service to you—You do
                              not cultivate it, and there is but little game on it....Your father
                              owns a large country west of the Mississippi—He is anxious that his
                              red children should remove there.18



                        
                              18Ibid., 13-16, 536-37, 598-606; Edmunds,
                                          The Potawatomis, 228-29; Rafert, The Miami Indians of Indiana, 91-95;
                                    Clifton, The Prairie People, 226-27; Anson,
                                          The Miami Indians, 191-93; James Ray to
                                    Lewis Cass, June 12, 1826, frame 111, roll 18, M1, Michigan
                                    Superintendency of Indian Affairs, Letters Sent and Received by
                                    the Superintendent, Record Group 75, Bureau of Indian Affairs,
                                    National Archives Great Lakes Region.
                        


                        
                        Cass initially received a negative response. Aubenaubee, a leader at the
                              1812 siege of Fort Wayne, acted as the primary speaker for the
                              Potawatomi. In response to Cass, he denied any desire on his
                              people's part to sell any of their lands. Le Gros of the Miami
                              expanded on Aubenaubee's rejection: It
                                    is yourselves destroying us, for you make the spirituous liquor.
                                    You speak to us with deceitful lips, and not from your
                                    hearts...You say the game is going away, and we must follow it;
                                    who drove it away...you have drove it away...You point to a
                                    country for us in the west, where there is game—We own there is
                                    game there, but the Great Spirit has made and put men there, who
                                    have a right to that game, and it is not ours. Cass and
                              Governor Ray responded with threats and sarcasm, arguing that the
                              government could simply have taken Indian land after the war. Cass
                              credited Indian prosperity entirely to annuities being received for
                              earlier cessions.19
                        Proponents of removal were motivated by the drive for internal
                              improvements. Men like Tipton and Ray were aware that improved
                              transportation was necessary to facilitate settlement and promote
                              economic development, and the treaty with the Potawatomi directly
                              furthered those goals. As a direct result of the signing, Congress
                              gave the state of Indiana "a right
                              of way of one hundred feet and one section of land for each mile of a
                              road from some point on the Ohio River via Indianapolis
                              to Lake
                              Michigan." The treaty freed up northern acreage for the Michigan
                              Road; removing Native peoples from the region also fit into plans for
                              a proposed canal that would link the Wabash River to the Erie Canal,
                              just opened in 1825.20
                        The treaties accomplished much of what the federal and state governments
                              wanted in their drive to realize these and other public improvements.
                              The Miami ceded their land north of the Wabash, except for a number of
                              reservations. One relatively large one-thirty-six square 
                                    19Robertson and Riker, eds., The John Tipton Papers, Vol. 1,
                                          576-92. Metea, noted for resistance to land sales at
                                          earlier treaties, had also been a leader of the attempt to
                                          take Fort Wayne fourteen years earlier. At the 1826
                                          treatys conclusion, he pushed for a permanent annuity of
                                          $100 for each Potawatomi, which Cass dismissed.
                                    20Ibid., 805-806; Donald E Carmony,
                                                Indiana, 1816-1850: The Pioneer Era (Indianapolis, 1998), 137,
                                          185.
                              
                               miles—was located significantly
                              north of the Wabash. Entrusted to the chief Papakeechee, or Flatbelly,
                              this reservation, in 1834, helped define the boundaries of Potawatomi
                              cessions in 1828 and 1832. These reservations reduced the amount of
                              land ceded, and continued a Miami presence in the area, but they also
                              chopped up tribal land into discontinuous pieces. Despite their
                              earlier protests, the Potawatomi had already agreed to the cession of
                              the strip north of the Wabash, in which they could also claim an
                              interest. They also ceded the route of the projected Michigan Road
                              along with a strip south of the Michigan line extending west to the
                              south end of Lake Michigan. To Cass and his associates, the cession of
                              the Michigan Road route had the added advantage of geographically
                              dividing the Potawatomi. The northern strip also gave the state of
                                          Indiana sites for two
                              potential commercial and banking centers, South
                                    Bend and Michigan
                                          City. Both towns benefitted by their close
                              proximity to water: South
                                    Bend developed water-powered industry along
                              the St. Joseph River,
                              while Michigan City became a shipping port on the lake.21 This cession encompassed the first sections of
                              northwest Indiana to become part
                              of the public domain, including much of modern-day La Porte County,
                              part of northern Porter County, and, in
                              northeast Lake County, a
                              portion of the Miller section of Gary still marked by Indian Boundary
                                    Road.22
                        In their evaluation of the 1826 treaty, Cass and his fellow commissioners
                              stated that removal could be accomplished, but would have to wait
                              until "[t]ime, the destruction of game, and the approximation of
                              our settlements" forced the Indians to capitulate. They also
                              believed that the isolation of small groups on reservations would help
                              their cause. Two years later, Cass and Pierre Menard persuaded the
                              Potawatomi to sell land in southwest Michigan, the tribal center for
                              over a century, as well as a larger section of northeastern
                                          Indiana, including the
                              Elkhart River valley, that linked the South
                                    Bend-Michigan City strip
                              with the settlements around Fort Wayne.23


                        
                              21Access to the lake for Indiana was an explicit goal
                                    for Tipton: "The tract upon Lake Michigan is essential to
                                    the interests of Indiana; for, without it, her
                                    citizens can have no access to that important outlet."
                                    Robertson and Riker, eds., The John Tipton
                                          Papers, Vol. 1, 603.
                              22Kappler, Indian
                                    Treaties, 273-81, 294-97; Rafert, The Miami
                                          Indians of Indiana, 85, 91-95; Anson, The Miami Indians, 192; Edmunds, The
                                          Potawatomis, 228-29; Carmony, Indiana,
                                          1816-1850, 185, 264, 521; Powell A. Moore, The Calumet Region: Indiana's Last
                                          Frontier (Indianapolis, 1959), 53n33, 76. The Miami
                                    retained a large reservation south of the Wabash until
                                    1840.
                              23Kappler, Indian
                                    Treaties, 294-97; Clifton, The Prairie
                                          People, 229-30; Robertson and Riker, eds., The John Tipton Papers, Vol. 1,
                                    601-602.
                        


                        
                        Although the earlier James Monroe and John Quincy Adams administrations
                              had promoted Indian removal, it became a national priority with the
                              presidency of Andrew Jackson. In December 1829, Jackson urged Congress
                              to pass a general policy of removal. He claimed removal was in the
                              Indians' own best interests and presented it as an aid to the
                              process of "civilization." Theoretically, emigration to the
                              West was to be voluntary. The following month, Cass—who shortly
                              thereafter supervised Indian policy nationally as Jackson's
                              secretary of war—published Considerations on the Present
                                    State of the Indians, and Their Removal to the West of the
                                    Mississippi. In justifying removal, Cass presented Indians
                              as steadily degenerating, incapable of reform in their current
                              locations, and without rights to sovereignty. Cass functioned as the
                              federal government's ideological point man; McCoy was another key
                              proponent of removal, promoting the concept of the civilizing mission.
                              Closely associated with Tipton and Indiana interests, McCoy and other
                              missionaries saw removal as a necessary step in saving Indians from
                              alcohol and demoralization—a theme that Cass had already raised in the
                              1826 negotiations.24
                        The Indian Removal Act enacted in 1830 put into law the practices that
                              had begun with previous treaties. The act is widely remembered for its
                              implementation in the South, including the forced removals of the
                              Creek and Cherokee and the long, bloody war fought by the Seminole.
                              Removal north of the Ohio River figures much less prominently in
                              textbooks and in the public consciousness. At the beginning of 1830,
                              much of Indiana north of the
                              Wabash was still in the hands of the Potawatomi or Miami. In a message
                              to the legislature, Governor Ray called for removal of Indians from
                              the state, "[b]ut in love and without force"; the
                              legislature responded by calling for the extinction of Indian property
                              ownership in the state.25
                        In the same year, the Black Hawk War to the west provided an urgency—and
                              a convenient, additional rationale—for government removal of all
                              Native Americans, Potawatomi in particular, from 
                                    24Lewis Cass, Considerations on the Present State of the Indians,
                                                and Their Removal to the West of the
                                                Mississippi (1830; New York, 1975); George A.
                                          Schultz, An Indian Canaan: Isaac McCoy and
                                          the Vision of an Indian State
                                          (Norman,
                                          Okla.,
                                          1972).
                                    25Anthony F. C. Wallace, The Long, Bitter Trail: Andrew Jackson and the
                                                Indians (New York, 1993); Dorothy Riker and
                                          Gayle Thornbrough, eds. Messages and Papers
                                                Relating to the Administration of James Brown Ray,
                                                Governor of Indiana, 1825-1831
                                          (Indianapolis,
                                          1954), 571.
                              
                               northern Indiana. Members of the Sauk and Fox
                              tribes re-entered ceded lands in northern Illinois and southern
                              Wisconsin. For a few months, they held off troops with the aid of a
                              few Potawatomi, Winnebago, and Kickapoo. The resulting conflict was
                              the final gasp of armed resistance by a small minority of the
                              region's natives, but it frightened whites throughout the
                                    Midwest.26
                        Although the Black Hawk uprising had not reached into Indiana and few Potawatomi had
                              joined in the war, some warriors from the tribe had destroyed a
                              settlement on Indian
                              Creek northwest of Ottawa, Illinois. From the
                              Indian viewpoint, these were defensive wars against Anglo-American
                              designs on the land, but two generations of backcountry whites had
                              also lost farms and family members to the same skirmishes and wars.
                              Genuine fear among settlers conveniently meshed with government policy
                              to push toward hastening removal.27
                        When the Winnebago agreed to give up land in southern Wisconsin in September 1832, it was
                              clear that the Potawatomi were next. In October, less than three
                              months after Black Hawk's people were defeated at Bad Axe on the
                                    Mississippi, the United
                                          States and the Potawatomi signed
                              three treaties on the Tippecanoe River. Cass, now secretary of war, again
                              wanted to "extinguish entirely, so far as it can be effected, the
                              native title to all Indian lands in the State of Indiana." At Camp Tippecanoe,
                              the Potawatomi surrendered their remaining lands in the state, except
                              for the federally designated reservations, as well as land in eastern
                                          Illinois southeast of
                              the previously ceded corridor between Chicago and the upper Illinois
                              River. The following year, a treaty at
                                          Chicago ceded
                              remaining Potawatomi lands in both Illinois and Wisconsin. This treaty included a
                              new component—a pledge to emigrate to a specified western reservation
                              in the northwest corner of 
                                    26Edmunds, The
                                                Potawatomis, 235-39; William Marshall to Lewis
                                          Cass, July 26, 1832, frames 75-76, and Marshall to George
                                          Porter, August 5, 1832, frames 70-71, roll 31, M1,
                                          National Archives Great Lakes Region; Susan E. Gray, The Yankee West: Community Life on the
                                                Michigan Frontier (Chapel Hill,
                                                  N.C., 1996), 26; R. David
                                          Edmunds, "The Prairie Potawatomi Removal of
                                          1833," Indiana Magazine of History,
                                          68 (September 1972), 242-43; Kappler, Indian
                                                Treaties, 345-48. Some settlers in northern La
                                          Porte County "forted up" or fled to the South
                                          Bend area during the Black Hawk War. Timothy H. Ball, Northwestern Indiana from 1800 to 1900: Or,
                                                a View of our Region through the Nineteenth
                                                Century (Chicago, 1900), 79-80;
                                          Jasper Packard, History of La Porte County,
                                                  Indiana, and
                                                its Townships, Towns and Cities
                                                  (La Porte,
                                                  Ind., 1876),
                                          45, 54, 70.
                                    27Edmunds, The
                                                Potawatomis, 237-38; Clifton, The
                                                Prairie People, 305; Robertson and Riker, eds.,
                                                The John Tipton Papers, Vol. 1,
                                          4.
                              
                              
                              Missouri, which was later shifted
                              northward into Iowa.28 In these two treaties, the Potawatomi yielded the last
                              major pieces of lands that had at the beginning of the nineteenth
                              century encompassed a large area around the south end of Lake Michigan
                              in Michigan, Indiana, Illinois, and
                              Wisconsin.29
                        U.S. commissioners, headed by former Indiana governor Jonathan Jennings, signed
                              the three 1832 treaties with different groups of Potawatomi. On
                              October 20, the government acquired the eastern Illinois land; on the
                              26th, the northern Indiana land west of
                              the Michigan Road; and on the following day, the smaller tract of
                                          Indiana land east of
                              the Michigan Road, mostly in modern Marshall,
                              Fulton, and Kosciusko
                              Counties. Total compensation included $247,000 in goods (delivered and
                              priced by traders); payment of $111,879 in debts owed to traders; and
                              annuities of $35,000 for twenty years plus $15,000 for twelve years.
                              Including miscellaneous items, the total compensation came to about
                              $1.3 million for over four million acres, or thirty cents per acre.30
                        The eastern part of the cession, on either side of the Michigan Road, was
                              lake and moraine country, much of it drained by the Tippecanoe River,
                              a tributary of the Wabash. This section was partly wooded, partly
                              prairie and oak barrens. The western part of the cession area in
                                          Indiana, mostly in the
                              Kankakee watershed, included the Grand Kankakee Marsh. This large area
                              of wetlands was important to the Potawatomi and to the fur trade as
                              hunting and trapping grounds. However, for white settlers, the marsh
                              was of little immediate use and was an obstacle to travel. The area to
                              the south (modern Jasper, Newton, and
                              Benton Counties) was mostly
                              prairie and oak savanna, much of it poorly drained and difficult to
                              plow. It was an extension of the prairies between the Illinois and
                              Wabash
                              Rivers, and included much of the Illinois portion of the
                              cession. North of the Kankakee were thousands of 
                                    28Kappler, Indian
                                                Treaties, 353-55, 367-70, 372-75, 402-15; Lewis
                                          Cass to Jonathan Jennings, John W Davis, and Marks Crume,
                                          July 11, 1832, frames 31-32, roll 9, M21, Records of the
                                          Office of Indian Affairs, Letters Sent, Record Group 75,
                                          Bureau of Indian Affairs, National Archives Great Lakes
                                          Region; Clifton, The Prairie People,
                                          234-43; Edmunds, The Potawatomis,
                                          241-43, 247-49.
                                    29White, The Middle
                                                Ground, 441, 515; Horsman, Expansion and American Indian Policy, 252-53;
                                          Gray, "Limits and Possibilities." 
                                    30Kappler, Indian
                                                Treaties, 353-55, 367-70, 372-75.
                              
                               acres of dry prairie good for
                              farming, as well as a large amount of little-valued swamp and dune
                              land, especially around the Calumet Rivers in northern
                              Lake County.31
                        The 1832 Potawatomi treaties established many reservations of two
                              types—some created specifically around villages, usually at least two
                              sections or square miles in size, and some drawn much larger. These
                              reservations were the basis of the next round of treaties in northern
                                          Indiana, and they
                              created a significant obstacle to removal. One reservation of
                              thirty-six sections was given to Cass's adversary, Aubenaubee;
                              another reservation of twenty-two sections was given to Menominee and
                              three other chiefs on the Yellow River. Other reserved lands were
                              individual "floating" reserves, usually a section or less,
                              which the recipients—often influential chiefs and mixed-race traders
                              and their families—could locate anywhere within the ceded territory.
                              Historians sometimes characterize these land grants as bribes or as a
                              way for speculators to bypass the normal policy of sale at public
                              auction. Most of the grants required the permission of the president
                              for sale or assignment; however, permission was often achieved with
                              the intervention of a sympathetic Indian agent. A small minority of
                              grants were issued in a form of freehold ownership known as fee
                              simple, eliminating the need for presidential permission.32
                        There is little doubt that these small reserve lands helped Native people
                              seeking to avoid removal. Many such grants went to Richardville and
                              other Miami leaders. Richardville received forty-four quarter sections
                              in treaties from 1818 to 1840; another Miami leader, Francis Godfroy,
                              received seventeen sections. The government also made some cash
                              payments in lieu of land grants in later Miami treaties, as it had in
                              the 1833 Potawatomi treaty. Many of Richardville's holdings were
                              issued in fee simple (as in 1818) or converted to fee-simple tenure in
                              the 1834 treaty. Although he sold some of this land to Tipton and
                              others, Richardville was able to delay Miami removal until after his
                              death in 1841, and obtained exemptions from emigration for many Miami,
                                    
                                    31Tanner, Atlas of Great
                                                Lakes Indian History, 14-15; E. Chamberlain,
                                                Indiana Gazetteer or Topographical
                                                Dictionary of the State of Indiana (1850;
                                          Knightstown, Ind., 1977), 163, 233-34,
                                          279-80, 283-86, 362-63, 367-68, 421-22, 433-34.
                                    32Kappler, Indian
                                                Treaties, 368; Robertson and Riker, eds., The John Tipton Papers, Vol. 1, 15,
                                          17- 28, 43-44, 47-48.
                              
                              
                              
                                    George Winter, sketch of Nan-matches-sin-a-wa, Chief Godfroys
                                          home, 1839. Some tribal leaders gained considerable wealth
                                          from their negotiations with the white federal
                                          government.
                                    Courtesy of Tippecanoe County Historical Association,
                                          Lafayette, Ind.
                               including his own extended family. Some grants, including
                              Godfroy's land near the mouth of the Mississinewa and those of
                              other families upstream, provided a refuge for those Miami who were
                              able to avoid removal in the 1840s.33
                        These treaties also involved the well-established feature of payments
                              made out of the annuities to traders, to meet claims of outstanding
                              Indian debts. At the 1836 Potawatomi annuity payment, agent Abel
                              Pepper allowed traders George Ewing and Cyrus Taber to draw up a list
                              of debts to be paid. This list substantially benefited Ewing and
                              Taber, and a rival group of traders protested, forcing a new committee
                              to 
                                    33Robertson and Riker, eds., The John Tipton Papers, Vol. 1, 48-49;
                                          Kappler, Indian Treaties, 171- 74,
                                          425-28; Bradley J. Birzer, "Jean Baptiste
                                          Richardville: Miami Metis" in Enduring
                                                Nations: Native Americans in the Midwest, ed.,
                                          R. David Edmunds (Urbana,
                                          Ill., 2008), 94-108; Rafert, The Miami Indians of Indiana, 83-84,
                                          97-98, 100-101,134; Anson, The Miami
                                                Indians, 188-90, 207-209. Five sections granted
                                          in fee simple to Miami chief Little Charley in 1834 soon
                                          fell into the hands of Tipton and traders Allen Hamilton
                                          and Cyrus Taber. Kappler, Indian
                                                Treaties, 426; Nellie Armstrong Robertson and
                                          Dorothy Riker, comps. and eds., The John
                                                Tipton Papers, Vol. 3, 1834-1839 (3 vols., Indianapolis, 1942), 215,
                                          462-64.
                              
                               reassess the list. Traders did
                              business with the Indians on credit, which meant the annuity money was
                              essential to keeping their businesses solvent. The fact that traders
                              often greatly inflated debts and prices had an even greater impact on
                              the real value to the Indians of the portion of annuity payments made
                              in goods at treaties. It is not surprising that the traders'
                              payment period was marked by excessive drunkenness and spending.34
                        Traders were not always consistent in their position on Indian removal,
                              based upon changing perceptions of their self-interests. William Ewing
                              wrote to Tipton in 1830 discouraging removal of "the blood
                              thirsty and degenerateing Miamies," thinking it better to
                              "suffer them to occupy back and unimportant situations for a
                              while, as their increased annuity will be of material benefit in the
                              first settleing of our country and there is yet room for all."
                              Eight years later, Ewing's brother and partner, George,
                              participated in the forced removal of Potawatomi from the Yellow River
                              area to Kansas (although he seems to have been more focused on
                              obtaining musicians to accompany the volunteer military detachment).
                              The Ewings later supported Miami removal after obtaining an interest
                              in the removal contract in 1846. The brothers' firm adapted to
                              removal by following the Indians west, establishing operations in
                              Kansas and Iowa in the 1840s and early 1850s. According to historian
                              Paul Wallace Gates, the Ewing family was second only to the Chouteaus
                              of St. Louis in claims against Indian annuities during the removal
                              period, receiving $4,716 from the October 26, 1832 treaty and $5,000
                              from the 1833 treaty. The Indian trade depended on suppliers in the
                              East; the Ewings and other traders in the area, including
                              Tipton's associates Allen Hamilton and Jordan Vigus, maintained
                              an account with the New York firm of Suydam and Jackson, later Suydam
                              & Sage.35



                        
                              34Edmunds, The
                                    Potawatomis, 259-60; Trennert, Indian Traders
                                          on the Middle Border, 54-55; Rafert, The
                                          Miami Indians of Indiana, 83; Anson, The
                                          Miami Indians, 182. The influence of traders on
                                    policy and their monetary interest in treaties is discussed in
                                    Phyllis Gernhardt, "Justice and Public Policy': Indian
                                    Trade, Treaties, and Removal from Northern Indiana, 1826- 1846" in
                                          Boundaries Between Us: Natives and Newcomers
                                          along the Frontiers of the Old Northwest Territory,
                                          1750-1850, ed., Daniel A. Barr
                                    (Kent,
                                    Ohio, 2006),
                                    178-95.
                              35Trennert, Indian Traders on
                                          the Middle Border, 19, 62-63, 89-118, 119-20, 130;
                                    Robertson and Riker, comps. and eds., The John
                                          Tipton Papers, Vol. 3, 183-84, 201-202, 216-17,
                                    323-24, 488- 90, 677-78, 681; Gates, History of
                                          Public Land Law Development. The American Fur Company
                                    (AFC), dominant in Chicago and in the Great Lakes region, was
                                    not as powerful in Indiana. AFC representatives
                                    received at least $20,000 from the 1833 Chicago treaty but
                                    nothing in the 1832 treaties, although occasional AFC employee
                                    Gurdon Hubbard obtained $6,673. Kappler,
                        


                        
                        Indian agent William Marshall began to gain title to the northern
                                          Indiana band
                              reservations with four treaties in December 1834, although only the
                              last of these pledged removal within a three-year period.
                              Marshall's successor, Abel Pepper, continued this process with
                              ten treaties between April 1836 and early 1837. The treaties followed
                              a set form and pledged removal west within two years. In later
                              treaties, the government paid $1.25 an acre, the minimum price it
                              would realize from public land sales. Although many village leaders
                              agreed to these terms, some did not and objected to others selling
                              their lands.
                        Some Potawatomi groups sought the support of the Catholic Church in
                              resisting removal. The church had been a presence in the region for
                              150 years, with deep roots in French communities associated with the
                              fur trade, and had influence among many mixed-race tribal members
                              (including Richardville). Interest in Catholicism had grown among
                              Potawatomi in southwest Michigan in the 1820s, particularly within the
                              group led by Chief Leopold Pokagon.
                        Menominee, a chief and spiritual leader who shared the large reservation
                              on the Yellow River, also developed close ties with the church.
                              Although he never agreed to give up his people's land, the
                              signatures of three other chiefs sharing his reservation appeared on
                              an August 5, 1836 treaty. In a letter to Tipton, forwarded to the
                              commissioner of Indian Affairs, Menominee and seventeen others,
                              including the ostensible signers of the treaty, repudiated the sale:
                                    [W]e Chiefs and familys heads of Said
                                    Reservation Do by this protest and object against any such thing
                                    like a Treaty or Sale of our land as having no part in it or
                                    give any authorization to it...we have never Consented to any
                                    Sale of our Reserves or give any authorization to it or have had
                                    any part in Said Treaty.36
                              
                                    Indian Treaties, 355, 369, 408-409; John
                                          Haeger, "Fur Trade Society in Chicago, Milwaukee and
                                          Green Bay: A Study of the Transitional Period of the
                                          American Fur Trade, 1815-1838" (masters thesis,
                                          Loyola University, 1966), 62, 84-85. Because the 1833
                                          Chicago treaty contained a provision for removal and,
                                          according to Tipton, pointedly handed out cash to Indian
                                          leaders in lieu of land, President Jackson refused to
                                          approve any more treaties with reserves. Kappler, Indian Treaties, 369-70, 409;
                                          Robertson and Riker, comps. and eds., The
                                                John Tipton Papers, Vol. 3, 298-99. An 1838
                                          Miami treaty included some individual reserves, including
                                          nine half sections for Richardville alone, but by then Van
                                          Buren was President. Kappler, Indian
                                                Treaties, 522-24.
                                    36Edmunds, The
                                                Potawatomis, 255-58, 264-66; Clifton, The Prairie People, 244-45, 270-72;
                                          Kappler, Indian Treaties, 428-31, 450,
                                          457-59, 462-63, 470-72, 480-89.
                              
                              
                              
                                    George Winter, Pottawatomie Emigration, 1838. In his
                                          sketchbook, Winter captured the forced emigration of the
                                          Potawatomi-subsequently known as the Trail of Death.
                                    Courtesy of Tippecanoe County Historical Association,
                                          Lafayette, Ind.
                               The government forcefully resolved the problem with
                              Menominee's people. At Pepper's request, Gov. David Wallace
                              authorized Tipton to raise 100 volunteers from the area. On August 29,
                              1838, troops surrounded and arrested Menominee and other leaders who
                              had gathered for a council. Six days later, the remaining 850
                              Potawatomi were rounded up and forced to walk west. Two months later,
                              about 750 arrived in Kansas. Although some had slipped away to return
                              to Indiana, at least 42 had died of
                              typhoid and other causes along the road, giving this removal its
                              contemporary name of the Trail of Death.37





                        
                              37Edmunds, The
                                    Potawatomis, 266-68; Clifton, The Prairie
                                          People, 298-99; Trennert, Indian Traders
                                          on the Middle Border, 66-67; Robertson and Riker,
                                    comps. and eds., The John Tipton Papers, Vol.
                                    3, 659-769. Some descendants of the Potawatomi who were removed
                                    remain in Kansas today,
                                    while others moved to Oklahoma after the Civil War.
                        


                        
                        Another forced removal took place in 1840 in southern Michigan, where some Potawatomi were
                              still living on the Nottawasippi reservation, despite the fact that
                              they had agreed to surrender the land in the 1833 treaty. In 1850, a
                              final removal included a few Potawatomi from Indiana. Most Potawatomi from
                                          Indiana,
                                          Michigan, and east
                              central Illinois who had been
                              forcefully removed in 1838 and 1840, had been relocated along the
                              Marais des
                              Cygnes River in eastern Kansas. The Potawatomi from
                              northern Illinois and
                              Wisconsin settled in
                              southwest Iowa around
                              modern Council Bluffs. When Iowa became a state in 1846, federal
                              authorities summoned both groups to a treaty council and induced them
                              to move to another reservation in the Kansas River valley.38
                        Not all of the Potawatomi removed west of the Mississippi. Anthropologist
                              James Clifton estimates that as many as 2,500 moved to British Canada,
                              appealing to the ties established through decades of alliance with the
                              British in earlier conflicts with the United
                                          States. Although most of this group
                              were from Wisconsin and
                                          Illinois, a small
                              faction led by Okamanse emigrated from Indiana. Other Potawatomi, mainly from
                                          Illinois and southern
                                          Wisconsin, moved to
                              northern Wisconsin and the
                              upper peninsula of Michigan. The Pokagon
                              band, as Catholics with fee-simple titles to less desirable land,
                              remained in Michigan just north of
                              the state line. They escaped removal for two reasons: their leader had
                              used proceeds from the sale of individual grants to purchase other,
                              less valuable property from the Kalamazoo land office; and according
                              to an amendment to the 1833 treaty, their status as Catholics exempted
                              them from removal (although they were supposed to collect their
                              annuities in northern Michigan). Another southern
                                          Michigan group, some
                              left over and some returned from the 1840 removal, stayed at the
                              sufferance of the state government. Mixed-race individuals of
                              Potawatomi ancestry, such as the Bailly family of Porter
                                          County, also remained in the area.39




                        
                              38Edmunds, The
                                    Potawatomis, 273-75; Clifton, The Prairie
                                          People, 311-53; Kappler, Indian
                                          Treaties, 410, 557-60.
                              39James A. Clifton, A Place of
                                          Refuge for All Time: Migration of the American Potawatomi
                                          into Upper Canada, 1830-1850 (Ottawa, Canada, 1975),
                                    65-87; Clifton, The Prairie People, 297, 304-
                                    311; Edmunds, The Potawatomis, 273-75;
                                    Kappler, Indian Treaties, 369, 430, 458; Indianapolis Star, October 7, 1984. Okamanse
                                    (Ogamaus, Okamause, Okahmaul), the Indiana chief who went to
                                    Canada in 1840, had been sketched by artist George Winter in
                                    1837, and had removed to Kansas that year, but returned. Cooke
                                    and Ramdhanyi, eds., Indians and a Changing
                                          Frontier, 79.
                        


                        
                        Although part of the Miami tribe left the upper Wabash valley in 1846,
                              spurred on by the dispatch of federal troops, several leading families
                              remained, including that of Richardville. Many Miami from the
                              Mississinewa valley also stayed—their descendants constitute the
                              modern Miami Indians of Indiana. With the exception of the land on
                              which these groups lived, Northern Indiana was devoid of tribal land. The
                              process of privatization via government land sales had come close to
                              achieving the final goal of Tipton and his committee.40
                        After Indian removal, the next step in the transformation of land
                              ownership was the distribution, or sale, of the land to white owners.
                              Federal land office business burgeoned in the 1830s as millions of
                              acres became available through Indian cessions. According to historian
                              Malcolm Rohrbough, sales peaked nationally between the fall of 1833
                              and the spring of 1837, a period when land revenues exceeded the total
                              value of sales to date. The government sold over twenty million acres
                              in 1836, over three million acres in Indiana alone. By 1837, sixty-two land
                              offices were operating. These sales led to a frenzy of speculation
                              until the financial panic of 1837 and the ensuing depression. Although
                              the sale of land slowed considerably during the financial crisis, it
                              did not stop completely.41
                        In 1834, the government surveyed the northern Indiana lands surrendered by the
                              Potawatomi two years earlier, setting the stage for the public sale of
                              lands and future settlement, although not necessarily in that order,
                              as squatters rushed in. Almost all the 1832 cession area fell under
                              the purview of the district land office at La Porte. Six years after
                              its inception, the office moved south to Winamac, in the
                              cession's heart.42
                        The arrival of white settlers before the lands went on public sale raised
                              the issue of preemption. Squatters pressed for a right of preemptive
                              purchase over the pieces of land on which they had settled and made
                              improvements. The rush of settlement in the 1830s, coupled with 
                                    40Rafert, The Miami
                                                Indians of Indiana, 95-101; Anson, The Miami Indians, 217-33.
                                    41Rohrbough, The Land
                                                Office Business, 221-49; Gates, History of Public Land Law Development,
                                          165-70.
                                    42Contracts to survey lands between
                                          the Surveyor General and Deputy Surveyors: Thomas Brown
                                          (frame 483), David Hillis (489), Reuben J. Dawson (491),
                                          Abner E. Van Ness (497), Ambrose Burnside (501), William
                                          Clark (503), Uriah Biggs (505), Austin Morris (511),
                                          Perrin Kent (513), roll 9, M478, Letters received by the
                                          Secretary of the Treasury and the General Land Office from
                                          the Surveyor General, Record Group 49, Bureau of Land
                                          Management, National Archives Great Lakes Region; George
                                          Wilson, Early Indiana Trails and Surveys
                                          (1919; Indianapolis, 1986), 68; Hone, Land
                                                and Property Research in the United States,
                                          340-43.
                              
                               the effects of the 1837 panic and
                              depression, brought preemption to the fore as a national political
                              issue. The 1838 Preemption Act allowed such claims for up to 160 acres
                              by heads of families and single men 21 years of age and older. This
                              right was later extended to widows.43 The act
                              spurred more settlers to rush to Indian land about to enter the public
                              domain. Tipton described the problem to the Senate in 1838:
                              "[T]he people of four entire counties in Indiana—Porter, Lake, Newton and
                              Pulaski, with a portion of Miami and others—are settlers on public
                              lands." Squatters had an interest in asserting preemptive rights
                              to their lands whether legally protected or not, making many
                              preemption claims in northern Indiana, particularly in areas like
                              Lake
                              County that were offered for sale a year later.44
                        Solon Robinson, Lake County's most celebrated early settler, was one
                              of those who squatted and subsequently filed a preemption claim (on
                              November 17, 1838, for 160 acres). Robinson, a native of
                              Connecticut,
                              had arrived in southeast Indiana in the late 1820s and tried his
                              hand at several trades including town promotion, innkeeping, and
                              auctioneering. In late 1834, he moved to the newly ceded northwest
                              corner of the state, settling on an "Indian cornfield" in
                              the center of what would become the seat of Lake
                                    County—Crown Point,
                                          Indiana. Robinson ran a
                              store and later served as justice of the peace, county clerk, and
                              postmaster and wrote extensively for national agricultural
                              publications. He left the area in the early 1850s to become
                              agricultural editor of the New York Tribune.45
                        The Lake
                                          County Squatter's Union began at
                              Robinson's home on July 4, 1836, with 476 settlers signing the
                              founding document. Similar claims associations started up within the
                              same period in the Midwest—Illinois, Wisconsin,
                              Michigan, and
                              Iowa—as
                              well as in the South. Settlers who poured onto the millions of acres
                              of recently vacated Indian land were anxious about the chances of
                              federal preemption legislation and desirous of protecting their land
                              claims and improvements. The Lake County group was notable because of
                              its size; it became something 
                                    43Gates, History of
                                                Public Land Law Development, 219-47.
                                    44Robertson and Riker, comps. and
                                          eds., The John Tipton Papers, Vol. 3,
                                          519-20; R. David Edmunds, "George Winter: Mirror of
                                          Acculturation," in Cooke and Ramdhanyi, eds., Indians and a Changing Frontier,
                                          36.
                                    45Herbert Anthony Kellar, ed., Solon Robinson: Pioneer and
                                                Agriculturalist, Vol. 1, 1825-45 (2 vols., Indianapolis, 1936),
                                          3-41.
                              
                               of a model for other groups, and
                              Robinson soon became known as "King of the Squatters."46
                        The group elected Robinson as register of the Squatter's Union, a
                              job title taken from the federal land offices. He was charged with
                              registering claims of up to 160 acres made on the lands upon which
                              improvements had been made. Poorly timbered claims were allowed to add
                              forty acres of additional timber; however, single claims were limited
                              to 80 acres of heavy timber-reflecting the importance of timber and
                              the geographic conditions of the 1832 cessions, much of which was
                              prairie and oak savanna.47
                        Union members were prepared to intervene en masse at land auctions to
                              ensure that their members would retain their claims. By the time
                              Lake
                              County lands came up for sale in March 1839, the 1838 Preemption Act
                              was in force; nonetheless, the squatters came to the auction armed and
                              got their land.48
                        Confrontations between settlers and Potawatomi on ostensibly ceded
                              reserve lands occurred in the area of the Tippecanoe and Yellow
                              Rivers, and were part of the justification for the forced removal of
                              1838. To the northwest, where much of the land was swamp more useful
                              for hunting than farming, relations with the Natives were more placid.
                              The Potawatomi were the "best customers" of Robinson's
                              store, paying promptly in raccoon, muskrat and mink skins, and
                              cranberries. Robinson reported that three Indian men had taken 1,300
                              raccoon skins in one season, earning $1,625. The Potawatomi continued
                              to trap in the Calumet and Kankakee marshlands. Settlers reported
                              hundreds of Potawatomi in winter hunting camps in the Kankakee Marsh
                              and near Cedar Lake in Lake County during the late 1830s. Some French
                              traders with Indian wives and mixed-race children also remained in the
                              area. Furs persisted as a source of income for decades after the
                              Natives' departure, until the swamps were drained for industry or
                              agriculture. As late as the 1850s, South Bend-based trader Lathrop
                              Taylor continued to buy large numbers of pelts.49



                        
                              46Kellar, Solon Robinson,
                                    Vol. 1, 68-69; Timothy H. Ball, Lake County,
                                    Indiana, from 1834 to 1872 (Chicago, 1873), 39-48;
                                    Gates, History of Public Land Law Development,
                                    152-57.
                              47Kellar, Solon Robinson,
                                    Vol. 1, 69-76.
                              48Ball, Lake County,
                                          Indiana, 64-65.
                              49Herbert Anthony Kellar, ed., Solon Robinson: Pioneer and Agriculturalist, Vol. 2,
                                          1845-1851 (2 vols.,
                                    Indianapolis, 1936),
                                    61; Kellar, Solon Robinson, Vol. 1, 19-20,
                                    64-65; Ball, Lake County, Indiana, 28, 36, 50,
                                    67-73, 81; Bert Anson, "Lathrop M. Taylor, The Fur
                                    Trader," Indiana Magazine of History, 45
                                    (December 1949), 369-81.
                        


                        
                        Mutually beneficial economic exchanges between white settlers and
                              lingering Indians were common. Susan E. Gray tells a story of the
                              complex interactions between settlers and the Potawatomi and Ottawa in
                              southern Michigan in the same period. The contacts continued in areas
                              where Indian communities persisted, but as part of a transition
                              between two regimes on the land.50
                         The La Porte-Winamac office registered a profusion of claims for the
                              floating reserves within the 1832 cession area. Many of these were
                              located in Fulton, Marshall, and
                              Kosciusko Counties, in the eastern
                              part of the cession set aside for Potawatomi bands; others were in
                              Lake, Porter, and
                              La Porte Counties, in the northwest part of the
                              cession. In Lake County, the floating reserves were concentrated in
                              the county's northeast corner. In 1835, whites purchased at least
                              a section and a half from Indians on Deep River, a tributary of the
                              Little
                              Calumet, creating the settlement of
                              Liverpool. Strikingly, not
                              one of the dozens of Indian grantees had chosen a tract in the
                              prairies south of the Kankakee and west of the Tippecanoe, perhaps
                              because this land was less suitable to summer villages and cultivation
                              or perhaps because it was harder to sell.51
                        Many Indian reserves, of course, ended up in the hands of speculators.
                              Some of Robinson's neighbors, with his support, defended their
                              claims from a speculator who had purchased an alleged Indian
                              "float." Robinson supported tax exemptions for similar
                              lands, including a reserve he had purchased on behalf of George Ewing
                              in northeast Lake County. According to
                              his 1850 deposition about that transaction, the squatter king had
                              acted as an agent for the Indian trader/speculator since 1843.52






                        
                              50Gray, "Limits and
                                    Possibilities."
                              51Moore, The Calumet
                                          Region, 70-71; Indiana State Archives, Databases -
                                    Indian Lands Noted on the LaPorte-Winamac Land Office, at
                                    http://wwwin.gov/icpr/2611.htm (accessed December 21, 2010);
                                    Hone, Land and Property Research in the United
                                          States, 229; Wilson, Indiana Trails and
                                          Surveys, 68.
                              52Kellar, Solon Robinson,
                                    Vol. 1, 12-15, 80-84; Vol. 2, 446-48. Robinson said that the
                                    Indian involved was a man he knew well by the name of Shobonier.
                                    The man was entitled to two sec- tions "at his
                                    village" in the Illinois lands surrendered on October 20,
                                    1832. However, records from the La Porte-Winamac land office
                                    compiled by the Indiana State Archives show that an Indian named
                                    Mis-sink-qu-quah took up a claim for that section as one of six
                                    granted under the October 27 treaty. Kappler, Indian Treaties, 353, 374.
                        


                        
                        By the 1840s, northern Indiana's land was
                              thoroughly shaped by private property ownership and animal-powered
                              agriculture. The next stage in the area's transformation from
                              Indian land into American heartland included political organization,
                              the growth of market-oriented agriculture and industry, and the
                              development of transportation and infrastructure necessary for this
                              growth.
                        Most of the area's formal county boundaries originated in acts
                              passed by the state legislature between 1830 and 1840. The exceptions
                              are Starke County, then mostly in the
                              Kankakee Marsh, which was organized in 1844; and Newton
                                          County, along the Illinois state line south of
                              Lake
                              County, which was separated from
                              Jasper County in 1859. Private
                              taxable land (improved land over five years past initial federal sale)
                              included over 76 percent of the area of Kosciusko, 64 percent of
                              Marshall, and 71 percent of
                              La Porte Counties in 1850, but only 19
                              percent in Lake and 16 percent in
                              Pulaski. The majority of land in
                              Jasper, Newton, Starke, and White Counties remained in federal
                                    hands.53
                        The state's most developed areas lay in the eastern part of the 1832
                              cessions, around the Michigan Road, in land with more timber. Further
                              west, swamps and wet prairies inhibited settlement, best exemplified
                              by the swamps in the Kankakee Marsh and at the base of Lake Michigan
                              which held back development in Lake
                                    County. Settlers perceived the poorly
                              drained prairies of Newton,
                                          Jasper, and
                                          Benton Counties as less
                              desirable. Those lands sold late and most ended up in the hands of
                              speculators. Henry Ellsworth, the patent commissioner under Jackson
                              who later settled in Lafayette, bought up vast tracts in
                              this area. When he died in 1858, he owned over 100,000 acres,
                              including nearly one-third of Benton
                                    County. Large cattle ranches were common in
                              the area for a time, as they were in central Illinois; much land
                              remained in the hands of large proprietors and occupied by tenants.
                              This area is still one of the most sparsely populated sections of the
                                    state.54




                        
                              53Chamberlain, Indiana
                                          Gazetteer, 163, 233-34, 279-80, 283-84, 284-86,
                                    362-63, 367-68, 421- 22, 433-34.
                              54Paul Wallace Gates, Landlords
                                          and Tenants on the Prairie Frontier: Studies in American
                                          Land Policy (Ithaca,
                                    N.Y., 1973), 112-39. Ellsworth
                                    had been involved in unsuccessful negotiations with the Miami in
                                    the mid-1830s and acted as an agent for other speculators from
                                    the East. Robertson and Riker, comps. and eds., The
                                          John Tipton Papers, Vol. 3, 256, 298. An 1852
                                    "Ellsworth Circular" promoting investment in the area
                                    is described in Elmore Barce, Annals of Benton
                                          County (Fowler, Ind., 1925), 61-66.
                        


                        
                        The federal land business changed after the mid-1840s. With settlers
                              occupying most of the desirable land, sales and revenues dropped.
                              After the Mexican War, much of the land business involved military
                              warrants issued to veterans and sold to speculators; Ellsworth
                              acquired much of his land in this manner. With the Swampland Act of
                              1850, Congress allocated a great deal of the least desirable land to
                              the states. Indiana received
                              1,266,706 acres, of which 111,400 were in Lake County (over one-third
                              of the county) and 55,305 in Porter County. However, much of this land
                              ended up in the hands of large investors like George W. Clark, a
                              Chicago civil engineer, who bought over 19,000 acres, mostly in
                              northern Lake County, from the state of Indiana. Steel mills and refineries
                              would appear on this land early in the next century.55
                        Nationally, by the 1850s, the newer areas, which had begun to be absorbed
                              and settled in the 1830s, were enjoying agricultural growth.
                                          Indiana was second to
                                          Illinois in wheat
                              production by 1860 (with Wisconsin third), had the largest swine
                              population of any state (with Illinois second), and was fourth in corn
                              production. Of northern Indiana counties including territory ceded
                              in 1832, La Porte and Kosciusko were the most agriculturally advanced
                              by 1860; La Porte had actually led Indiana counties in wheat production in
                              1850. Although counties like Lake, Starke, and
                              Newton were less
                              developed, their agricultural production grew substantially through
                              the 1850s, and the area as a whole produced over four million bushels
                              of corn and one million bushels of wheat in 1860. Manufacturing, too,
                              contributed to local prosperity. La Porte County led the area in the
                              value of its manufactures in 1860; St. Joseph County seems to have
                              been the flour-milling center. Shortly thereafter,
                              South Bend and
                              Mishawaka began to use
                              the power of the St. Joseph River to
                              manufacture plows and wagons to meet the demand for agricultural
                              implements to cultivate prairie lands.56



                        
                              55James W. Oberly, Sixty
                                          Million Acres: American Veterans and the Public Lands
                                          Before the Civil War (Kent,
                                    Ohio, 1990); Gates, Landlords and Tenants on the Prairie
                                          Frontier, 120; Barce, Annals of Benton
                                          County, 62; Gates, History of Public
                                          Land Law Development, 180-81; Moore, The
                                          Calumet Region, 93-98.
                              56Agriculture in the United
                                          States in 1860; compiled from the original returns of the
                                          eighth census, under the direction of the Secretary of the
                                          Interior, by Joseph C. G. Kennedy, superintendent of the
                                          census (1864; New York, 1990), xxix-xxx, xlvii,
                                    cxxiv, 39, 43, 45; Manufactures in the United
                                          States in 1860; compiled from the original returns of the
                                          eighth census under the direction of the Secretary of the
                                          Interior (1865; New York, 1990), 127, 134-35; U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 227, 233, 791-92
                                    ; Robert M. Taylor, Jr., et al., Indiana: A New
                                    Historical Guide (Indianapolis, 1989), 523-24.
                        


                        
                        Transportation and internal improvements had long been key interests of
                              many who desired to promote such economic development. The success of
                              the Erie Canal in bringing commodities and settlers from eastern
                              markets through the Great Lakes engendered great interest in canal
                              building in the newly acquired lands of the Midwest. As mentioned
                              earlier, men like Tipton and Ray were strong believers in the
                              "American commercial agricultural system" that, as historian
                              Ginette Aley has written, included such improvements as the projected
                              Wabash and Erie Canal, as well as the Michigan Road, both of which
                              factored prominently in the 1826 negotiations and in later
                              negotiations with the Miami. Despite the Indiana legislature's ambitious
                              1836 Internal Improvements Act, the Panic of 1837 froze transportation
                              development into the early 1840s. Many projected improvements never
                              came to fruition, although the canal was open to
                              Lafayette by 1843,
                              and reached the Ohio at Evansville ten years later.57
                        Railroad construction was also part of the 1836 plan, and while,
                              according to historian Donald E Carmony, a "paper network"
                              of railroads was set in place before the 1837 panic, the economic
                              crisis delayed actual construction in Indiana, as it did throughout the Midwest.
                              Railroad development recovered slowly in the 1840s. Indeed, horses,
                              rather than locomotives, actually pulled some trains in the down
                              period. Robinson, who rode on one of these in Kentucky, stated that
                              "with very few exceptions, good common roads are more advantage
                              to the farming community than railroads." The 1840s brought an
                              enthusiasm for plank roads as a substitute for the stalled railroads.
                              Propertied men such as Ellsworth saw them as even more important than
                              railroads for enhancing the value of their land.58




                        
                              57Ginette Aley, "Bringing about the
                                    Dawn: Agriculture, Internal Improvements, Indian Policy and
                                    Euro-American Hegemony in the Old Northwest, 1800-1846," in
                                    Barr, ed., Boundaries Between Us, 196-218
                                    (quote 200); Carmony, Indiana, 1816-1850,
                                    185-201, 238-41, 345-46; Andrew R. L. Cayton, Frontier Indiana (Bloomington, Ind., 1996), 281-87; Robertson
                                    and Riker, eds., The John Tipton Papers, Vol.
                                    1, 29-35; Nellie Armstrong Robertson and Dorothy Riker, comps.
                                    and eds., The John Tipton Papers, Vol. 2, 1828-1833 (3 vols., Indianapolis, 1942),
                                    200-209; Robertson and Riker, comps. and eds., The
                                          John Tipton Papers, Vol. 3, 61-64, 85-93, 118-20;
                                    Donald E Carmony, "The Mammoth Internal Improvement
                                    Fiasco," in The Hoosier State: Readings in
                                          Indiana History, Indian Prehistory to 1880, ed.,
                                    Ralph E. Gray (Grand Rapids,
                                    Mich., 1980), 234-42; Kellar, Solon Robinson, Vol. 1, 59; Moore, The Calumet Region, 75.
                              58Carmony, Indiana,
                                          1816-1850, 182, 358-59; Kellar, Solon
                                          Robinson, Vol. 1, 245, 250; Davis, Frontier Illinois, 363; Moore, The
                                          Calumet Region, 88; Barce, Annals of
                                          Benton County, 61-67.
                        


                        
                        Yet it was the railroads, not canals or plank roads, that would
                              ultimately revolutionize the transportation of agricultural produce to
                              market and of city goods to the rural consumer. The railroads shrank
                              effective distances between places as they began to cross the Midwest.
                              The Michigan Central and Michigan Southern, built in 1851-52, followed
                              the base of Lake
                                    Michigan into Chicago via Lake
                                          County. The intersection of the lake
                              and the railroads provided the foundation for Chicago's development and
                              for the subsequent emergence of one of the world's great
                              industrial areas in Indiana's northern
                              Lake County—much of the latter on what had been Potawatomi land. The
                              railroad that became known as the Monon line extended north to
                              Michigan City by 1854, despite the stagnation of projected harbor
                              improvements after the financial crisis. The Chicago, Pittsburgh, and
                              Fort Wayne crossed the heart of the 1832 cession area by 1858, and
                              another railroad reached Robinson's Crown Point in 1865.59
                        The closing of the Winamac land office in 1855 and the consolidation of
                              land sales in Indiana indicated the
                              end of a transition period. Geography still held back development in
                              much of the western part of the cession area, but even in these areas
                              white landowners could claim private property, usable for exchange or
                              rent income within organized counties and towns. Upwards of 40,000
                              whites had replaced around 2,500 Potawatomi.60
                              Northern Indiana was now part of
                              an American countryside, one largely absent of Indians. The
                              transformation of northern Indiana had occurred within less than
                              three decades. Federal bureaucracy played a decisive role through
                              Indian policy and land policy. Speculators, investors, and
                              entrepreneurs also influenced the construction of a white Midwest.
                        Could there have been a different outcome for the Native population in
                              light of the fact that the western part of the cession remained less
                              developed? Could the government have settled the Potawatomi on
                              reservations on the less desirable land of Newton and Jasper Counties?
                              Anyone who had argued against removal would have encountered political
                              and ideological opposition, fueled by recent memories of armed 
                                    59William Cronon, Nature's Metropolis: Chicago and the Great
                                                West (New York, 1991), 65-93; Moore, The Calumet Region, 83-92; Packard,
                                                History of La Porte County,
                                                Indiana, 89, 93; Vincent M. Bogle,
                                          "Beginning the Railroad Network," in Gray, ed.,
                                                The Hoosier State, 302-313.
                                    60U.S., Seventh Census,
                                                1850, 224, 230; Tanner, Atlas of
                                                Great Lakes Indian History, 136.
                              
                               conflicts in which the Potawatomi
                              had played a prominent role. Even those who saw themselves as friends
                              of the Indian, including Isaac McCoy, were part of a new society based
                              on private property and the pursuit of monetary gain. After the best
                              lands for agriculture and town development had been snatched up, less
                              desirable acreage was still an object of speculation and a source of
                              profit. Indian removals in northern Indiana took place within the context of a
                              speculative boom in midwestern frontier land; men such as John Tipton,
                              Allen Hamilton, George Ewing, and Henry Ellsworth—backed by the money
                              and military power of the federal government-led what was, perhaps, an
                              irresistible push to make Native peoples disappear from the tribal
                                    lands.61
                        In 1907, John T. McCutcheon could look back with nostalgia on the
                              "Indian traditions" of his boyhood home in
                                          Indiana, but his fable
                              perpetuated the myth of a picturesque, vanished Indian who had had
                              little, if any, relationship to contemporary society.
                              McCutcheon's Indians bore only the slightest resemblance to real
                              people like Richardville, Menominee, Le Gros, Okamanse, and the
                              Potawatomi and Miami men and women who followed them. In reality, the
                              Indians did not vanish they were pushed aside. They were deliberately
                              removed from the scene, or marginalized into its corners, to make way
                              for a new society. McCutcheon, his Indiana cornfields, and the booming
                              Chicago in which he worked were products of this new order in the
                              Midwest. Its origin lay in the dispossession of the Natives from their
                              lands. Far from being a picturesque sidebar to the area's
                              history, this removal constitutes a vitally important part of its
                              story.


                        
                              61Robertson and Riker, comps. and eds., The John Tipton Papers, Vol. 2, 310-311;
                                    Edmunds, The Potawatomis, 240.
                        
                  

                  
                  
                        REVIEWS




                        The Art and Craft of Writing Historical Fiction
                        By James Alexander Thom (Cincinnati,
                              Ohio:
                              Writer's Digest Books, 2010. Pp. 249. Index. Paperbound,
                              $16.99.)


                        If you were to envision the ideal preparation for a novelist who would
                              write with great insight and vividness about the westward expansion of
                              the fledgling United States—say from the 1770s to the 1830s—you might
                              specify that he or she grow up in the hill country of southern
                                          Indiana, the region
                              where, during those decades, crucial battles took place and white
                              settlement surged. (Needless to say, your future novelist could be
                              female or male. For the sake of simplicity, please consider the male
                              pronouns that follow as referring to women as well as men.) You would
                              want your writer-in-training to acquire deep knowledge of the
                              indigenous cultures that were displaced or erased, so that he could
                              write with sympathy about what was lost as well as what was gained as
                              whites laid claim to the land. He should do service as a soldier,
                              preferably in wartime, so that he could understand military life
                              without romanticizing it. By working for a spell as a journalist, he
                              could develop essential research skills and a healthy skepticism about
                              official versions of the truth. Experience as a university professor
                              would train him in the use of libraries and archives. So that he might
                              understand life on the frontier, including its hardships, let him live
                              in a log house, cut and split his own firewood, and learn to use tools
                              that work by muscle power rather than electricity. Let him prefer
                              writing with pen and ink on paper rather than on a computer. Let him
                              relish camping and hiking and river running, so that he could retrace
                              the paths his characters took as they traveled the inland waterways,
                              crossed the Indiana frontier, and
                              explored the wild continent to the west. Above all, let him descend
                              from a long line of raconteurs, so that he might acquire a keen sense
                              of storytelling and a love of American speech.
                        Add all of those qualities together and you will come up with someone
                              very like James Alexander Thom, one of the pre-eminent historical  novelists of our day. He was
                              born and reared in Owen County, Indiana, in the river town of
                              Gosport, to
                              parents who were both physicians. His mother was one of the first
                              female doctors in the state, as much of a pioneer as any of the
                              heroines he has written about. As a child, he kept company with
                              storytellers who conveyed to him a rich sense of familial and regional
                              history. He lives today on a ridge in his native county, at the edge
                              of a forest that harbors a white oak as old as our republic, and he
                              enjoys a view to the west across a valley that still looks, to a
                              squinting eye, much as it might have looked in 1800. Thom helped to
                              build the log home he shares with his wife, Dark Rain Thom, who is a
                              Shawnee elder and tribal historian. She has opened the way for him to
                              spend much time among Indians of numerous tribes, in
                              Canada as well as
                              the United States, learning about their traditions and values and
                              their perspective on the saga of westward settlement. Between his
                              childhood years in Owen County and his return there several decades
                              later, he served as a Marine during the Korean War, worked as a
                              reporter and editor for the Indianapolis Star and
                                    Saturday Evening Post, taught classes in
                              journalism at Indiana University, and traversed North America by road
                              and rail and a pair of robust legs.
                        Everything about this author is robust—the body with which he splits
                              firewood and carves wooden sculptures, the intelligence he uses to
                              search out and sift the truths about the past, and the imagination
                              with which he brings that past to life. From Long
                                    Knife (1979), about the exploits of George Rogers Clark in
                              the Northwest Territory during the Revolutionary War, to St. Patrick's Battalion (2006), about the
                              Mexican-American War of 1846, his nine novels (one of them co-authored
                              with his wife) have attracted millions of readers worldwide and two
                              have been made into films. Moreover, he wrote and rewrote all of those
                              thousands of pages longhand. Only in composing his latest book, The Art and Craft of Writing Historical Fiction,
                              he tells us, has he resorted to one of those newfangled, odorless
                              machines with a keyboard and screen.
                        If you aspire to write historical fiction, if you love reading it, or if
                              you are enamored of straight history and imagine you have nothing to
                              learn from novels, you should sit down with this book and listen to
                              one of the masters of the form. Thom's voice on the page is wry,
                              witty, and wise, and richly informed about history as well as art.
                              Much of this engaging book is devoted to explaining how he acquired
                              the knowledge that has enabled him to write his acclaimed novels, and
                              how anyone who aims to write movingly and accurately about the past
                              must prepare for the work.
                        The shorthand version of his advice is: research, research, and more
                              research. Thom believes that the serious historical novelist should
                              consult the full range of materials that any good historian would
                              use—published  works, archival
                              collections, letters, journals, census reports, genealogies, period
                              newspapers, and a whole long list more. Having worked as a journalist
                              before turning to fiction, he knows how to delve into sources:
                              "It came as a pleasant surprise to me, when I got busy in the
                              historical genre, that doing research is at least as exciting and
                              fascinating as doing the writing. Sometimes the giant task of finding
                              all the facts you need to know turns into a life adventure" (p.
                              54).
                        While recounting some of his own research adventures, he distinguishes
                              between facts—which can be documented—and verisimilitude—which must be created by drawing on
                              everything that is known about the place, time, and individuals of
                              one's story. Where historians look into the past from the
                              present, he argues, historical novelists render the past as the
                              present: "[W]hat you want to do is re-create it in full-live,
                              colorful, smelly, noisy, savory, painful, repugnant, scary, all the
                              ways it actually was-and then set your reader down smack in the midst
                              of it" (p. 26). The effect of such rendering is to make
                              "that long-ago moment so vivid, so real, so sensuously complete
                              and immediate that the reader is there, then, looking forward, not
                              just here, now, looking back" (p. 27).
                        Thom credits his Butler University professor, Dr. Werner Beyer, for
                              teaching him the key to immersing readers in the scene-by-scene
                              unfolding of events: "Write to their senses!" (p. 43). In
                              order to evoke the sensory richness that saturated past moments—the
                              smells and sounds, tastes and textures, as well as visual
                              impressions—the historical novelist must range beyond documents to
                              visit museums, historic reconstructions, and gatherings of
                              re-enactors. He should explore the places where the events occurred.
                              He should eat the foods, handle the tools, heft the weapons, and try
                              on the clothes appropriate to the time and location.
                        By turns craft talk and autobiography, this book is also a meditation on
                              the often-strained relations between historians and historical
                              novelists. A remark by the celebrated historian, Stephen Ambrose, to
                              the effect that the "novelist doesn't have to have
                              facts," set Thom "thinking about the relationship between
                              historians and historical novelists, about their relative authority
                              and levels of veracity" (pp. 23-24). As he envisions and
                              practices this art, historical fiction must be utterly faithful to
                              documented knowledge about the past, but it must also imagine what
                              cannot be documented: the thoughts and feelings and dialogue of
                              characters, the smells and sounds and textures of a particular place
                              and moment, all the things that make up the lived experience, the
                              interior of history.
                        "To envision the difference between early America and our country as
                              it is today requires a vast, transformative leap of the
                              imagination," he observes (p. 154). If you wish to see such leaps
                              carried out  convincingly, page
                              after page, or if you simply wish to immerse yourself in some of the
                              most stirring lives and events from American history, then take up any
                              of James Alexander Thom's novels—such as Panther in
                                    the Sky (1989), about the great Shawnee leader Tecumseh; or
                                    The Red Heart (1998), about a Quaker girl,
                              abducted by Lenape Indians in eastern Pennsylvania, who grew up among
                              the Miami and eventually chose to remain with her adoptive tribe in
                              the land that came to be known as Indiana; or From Sea to
                                    Shining Sea (1984), about the transcontinental endeavors of
                              the Clark family from Virginia, culminating in the 1804-1806
                              expedition led by William Clark and Meriwether Lewis; or Sign-Talker (2000), about George Drouillard, stalwart
                              hunter and interpreter on the Journey of Discovery. Wherever you begin
                              reading, you are likely to continue on from one Thom book to another,
                              experiencing the past not as past, but as now.

                        SCOTT RUSSELL SANDERS is Distinguished Professor Emeritus of English
                              at Indiana University. He is the author of twenty books of fiction and
                              nonfiction, including, most recently, A Private History
                                    of Awe (2006), which was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize,
                              and A Conservationist Manifesto (2009).
                  


                  
                        Monk's Tale The Pilgrimage Begins,
                                    1941-1975
                              By Edward A. Malloy (Notre Dame, Ind.: University of Notre Dame Press,
                              2009. Pp. xi, 258. Illustrations, index. $25.00.)


                        Among the many colleges and universities contributing to
                                          Indiana's proud
                              educational history, Notre Dame stands apart. Conventional wisdom
                              focuses attention on the university's legendary president, Father
                              Theodore Hesburgh, who served from 1952 to 1987. His successor, Father
                              Edward A. "Monk" Malloy, continued the process of elevating
                              Notre Dame's status beyond the gridiron. In 2005, Malloy
                              published Monk's Notre Dame, a collection of
                              stories and reminiscences of the school's past culture and
                              idiosyncratic characters. Monk's Tale, his
                              follow-up to that book, covers the first thirty-four years of
                              Malloy's own life from his birth in 1941 to the completion of his
                              PhD at Vanderbilt University in 1975.
                        Born and raised in Washington,
                                    D.C., Malloy grew up in a dutiful,
                              middle-class Catholic family. His early years were formed by religious
                              devotion, parochial school, and the basically conservative culture of
                              the 1950s. Even so, Malloy's life was not confined by
                              stereotypes. The nickname "Monk" came from a childhood
                              acquaintance, not his religious 
                              vocation. Malloy played endless pick-up basketball games at a
                              neighborhood park where racial barriers were not recognized. All that
                              mattered was "talent, confidence, and a positive reputation"
                              (p. 62). His racially integrated high school team—featuring future
                              Georgetown coach John Thompson Jr.—was undefeated and nationally
                              ranked. A basketball scholarship to Notre Dame actually moved Malloy
                              into a less-integrated environment populated with Catholic parochial
                              stars from the East Coast. In this narrative, however, Malloy's
                              undergraduate years are defined primarily in academic and cultural,
                              not athletic, terms. Malloy spends more time discussing his
                              experiences as a student-athlete than describing games and scores.
                              After almost flunking out his first year, Malloy majored in English,
                              one of Notre Dame's strongest departments.
                        "Pilgrimage" usually implies a journey of both physical and
                              spiritual dimensions. Malloy sees his life as a journey involving, but
                              not limited to, Notre Dame. His call to the priesthood came through
                              missionary work in rural Mexico. Although some spiritual
                              autobiographies feature a clear revelatory moment standing in stark
                              contrast to life's routine, Malloy's call was different. He
                              did experience a moment when he discerned his call, but that event
                              only sharpened the focus of his already Catholic life. He remained at
                              Notre Dame for his seminary studies and ordination; he then became the
                              first Catholic priest admitted to the Vanderbilt University doctoral
                              program in Ethics. At this historically Protestant school, Malloy
                              finally confronted the startling denominational diversity of American
                              religion, a reality that existed just beyond the confines of Notre
                              Dame. After receiving his PhD at age 34, he considered himself, like
                              Lou Gehrig, "the luckiest guy in the world" (p. 252).
                        Monk's Tale offers a clear testimony to the
                              formative years of one of Indiana's most solid university
                              administrators. The book will appeal to those with a connection to
                              Notre Dame. Other readers will appreciate Malloy's meticulously
                              reconstructed cultural and religious history. While not a native
                              Hoosier, he shares a passion for basketball seldom matched among his
                              Holy Cross brethren or fellow college administrators. That alone makes
                              this volume worthy for consideration as Indiana history. Malloy's
                              articulate memories of Notre Dame include times of cultural
                              transformation and athletic losses. Monk's Tale
                              is an important addition to understanding the dynamics within one of
                              the best-known universities in both the state and nation.

                        JEFFREY MARLETT teaches religious studies at the College of Saint
                              Rose in Albany, New York. He graduated from Wabash College and is the
                              author of Saving the Heartland (2002).
                  


                  
                  
                        The Bourgeois Frontier French Towns, French Traders,
                                    and American Expansion
                              By Jay Gitlin (New Haven,
                              Conn.: Yale University Press,
                              2009. Pp. xiv, 269. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                              $40.00.)


                        The Bourgeois Frontier focuses on the Chouteau family
                              and its important role in American expansion, from the founding of
                              St.
                              Louis by the family patriarch to the death of its last matriarch,
                              Emilie Anne (nee Gratiot), in 1862. Jay Gitlin uses the
                              Chouteaus' history as an emblematic narrative of the integration
                              of French fur traders into the increasingly Americanized West in the
                              decades between the American Revolution and the Civil War. His primary
                              goal is to dispel the belief that the French had vanished into the
                              creolized and mixed-race lower classes of the frontier after 1763—a
                              myth perpetuated well before Francis Parkman concretized it in his
                              seven volumes on the French in America in the mid-to late-nineteenth
                              century.
                        Gitlin notes that St. Louis, which would become the hub city of the
                              "Creole Corridor" running from Quebec to
                              New Orleans, was in
                              fact founded by the Chouteau clan after the 1764 cession of
                              Louisiana
                              to Spain. Subsequently, the town and its surrounding territory drew
                              French settlers from throughout the West, Canada, and
                              France, as well
                              as Anglo-American immigrants, who settled there in growing numbers
                              after the 1803 Louisiana Purchase. Through careful documentation,
                              Gitlin shows how the family learned to profit from its role as brokers
                              between the Anglos and Native Americans, as the commodities in
                              question shifted from furs to land to mining rights. Other French and
                              even some Metis traders are mentioned as well, but Gitlin never strays
                              far from the Chouteaus.
                        Gitlin's most compelling chapter focuses on the family's
                              opportunistic turn to the Southwest, well in advance of large-scale
                              Anglo regional penetration along the Santa Fe Trail. When the Anglos
                              finally did arrive in New Mexico in the 1830s, they found themselves
                              bargaining with the same French families they had encountered to the
                              east a generation before. The French ability and willingness to engage
                              Indians in non-confrontational matters eased the settlement process
                              for a great many tribes, from the Shawnee and the Osage to the
                              Comanche and the Cheyenne.
                        As family history becomes western history, the Chouteaus multiply,
                              marrying wisely with Anglos, Indians, and other French entrepreneurs,
                              expanding the family and its businesses from remote frontier outposts
                              to New York to Paris. Here, however, is one of the book's
                              shortcomings. While reading, I found myself needing Shirley
                              Christian's Before Lewis  and Clark: The Story of the
                                    Chouteaus and the French Dynasty that Ruled America's
                                    Frontier (2004) for, if nothing else, its Chouteau family
                              tree. Gitlin's omission of any citation to Christian's
                              thoroughly researched (if not necessarily scholarly) book is
                              representative of his somewhat problematic relation to contemporary
                              scholarship, much of which has focused on issues of race and slavery.
                              Gitlin's is an older type of story, one that narrates the rise of
                              a family business and examines the nuts and bolts of economic ventures
                              but gives scant attention to the slaves and laborers who made these
                              ventures work.
                        When race does become a central issue as the Civil War approaches,
                              internal family struggles over alliances and abolition seem sudden and
                              under-contextualized. Dred Scott's owner was a Chouteau son-in-
                              law, and although the case is mentioned several times, it is never
                              linked to larger family attitudes toward slavery or any other
                              political, economic, or social issues. As the book's title
                              suggests, Gitlin's emphasis is on the bourgeois French elite who
                              retained the older cultural values of the French frontier, as the
                              lower classes were absorbed into the American working class or simply
                              pushed west with their Indian relatives. In that sense, Gitlin has
                              stayed within the limits of his topic.
                        The Bourgeois Frontier's strengths and weaknesses
                              are epitomized by the image of a sumptuous steamship's ballroom
                              on its cover. While its grandeur is undeniable and the beautifully
                              dressed Creoles sauntering about are recognizable from Gitlin's
                              study, the well-dressed and dark-skinned slaves waiting table and the
                              bartender in shirtsleeves remain relative strangers. This is a well-
                              researched and well-written book about a colonial culture whose last
                              visible remnant was its elite.

                        EDWARD WATTS is Professor of English at Michigan State University.
                              His most recent book is In This Remote Country: Colonial
                                    French Culture in the Anglo-American Imagination, 1780-
                                    1860 (2006).
                  


                  
                        Heartland Utopias
                              By Robert P. Sutton (DeKalb: Northern Illinois University
                              Press, 2009. Pp. 224. Notes, selected bibliography, index.
                              $32.00.)


                        If a book is to be judged by the goals it sets, then Robert P.
                              Sutton's Heartland Utopias is deserving of
                              praise. As the author explains in his conclusion, the volume is
                              "not intended to be a new theoretical analysis of utopian
                              communalism"; rather, its purpose is "to summarize the
                              importance of communal societies to the history of the heartland in
                              light of the  overwhelming evidence
                              that the prevalence of this lifestyle is ... past" (p. 184).
                              Thus, Sutton's overviews of utopian communities in
                              Ohio,
                              Illinois, Indiana,
                              Michigan, and
                              Wisconsin implicitly suggest that anyone studying the history of the
                              region known as the Old Northwest should know something of these
                              communal experiments.
                        The book is organized in a loosely chronological manner, with chapters
                              designated to specific communal groups (i.e., "Shakers'
                              Villages"), to specific locations ("New Harmony," home
                              to the followers of George Rapp and then to followers of Robert Dale
                              Owen, and "Chicago Area Utopias," for example), or to groups
                              that, while perhaps undeserving of a chapter to themselves, still
                              share meaningful links to other communities. In chapters such as
                              "Other Separatist Communities" and "Contemporary
                              Heartland Utopias," the author explains the reasons for such
                              linkage.
                        Discussion of each utopian group includes background information that
                              often predates the group's appearance in the heartland. As a
                              result, the historical expanse of the volume includes commentary on
                              the Hutterite Bruderhofs' origins in Switzerland in the sixteenth
                              century and the Shakers' origins in England in the eighteenth
                              century before sweeping forward to the present day, concluding with
                              communities such as Jesus People, USA; the Stelle community; and
                              Padanaram.


                        For those readers interested in Indiana history, Sutton's references
                              include the Shaker village founded at West Union in 1808; New Harmony;
                              the Fourierist phalanx at La Grange; Zion City founder John Alexander
                              Dowie, who was attacked by a mob in Hammond in 1899; House of David
                              founder Benjamin Purnell, who married and converted in Richmond; Reba
                              Place Fellowship founder John Miller, who taught at Goshen College;
                              and Padanaram, which began near Williams in the late 1960s and later
                              established flourishing wood product and composting businesses in the
                                          Bloomington
                              area.
                        Scholars will quickly note Sutton's reliance upon what might be
                              called key secondary sources rather than primary materials. Exceptions
                              to this methodology can be found in the chapters devoted to
                              "Chicago Area Utopias" and "Contemporary Heartland
                              Utopias," both of which draw on primary material such as
                              interviews conducted by Timothy Miller and Deborah Altus as part of
                              "The 60s Communes Project" and newspaper accounts. These
                              chapters exceed others in the volume for the insights they provide to
                              readers already familiar with nineteenth and early twentieth-century
                              communal utopias.
                        The most valuable contribution of Heartland Utopias is
                              its compilation of this material into one volume. Numerous histories
                              and specialized articles have been written about the utopian groups
                              discussed here, as the  citations
                              suggest. Yet those teaching classes on either the region or American
                              communal utopias should find this summation a good starting guide for
                              students to learn the basics, and to locate possible points of entry
                              to further study of any one of the groups discussed.

                        ETTA M. MADDEN is Professor of English at Missouri State University.
                              She is the author of Bodies of Life: Shaker Literature
                                    and Literacies (1998) and co-editor of Eating
                                    in Eden: Food and American Utopias (2006). Madden serves on
                              the editorial board of the American Communal Societies Series of the
                              Richard W. Couper Press and is a former Board member of the Communal
                              Studies Association.
                  


                  
                        Well-Read Lives How Books Inspired a Generation of
                                    American Women
                              By Barbara Sicherman (Chapel Hill: University of North
                              Carolina Press, 2010. Pp. 380. Illustrations, notes, bibliogra- phy,
                              index. $35.00.)


                        With its focus on Gilded Age literary culture, Barbara Sicherman's
                                    Well-Read Lives: How Books Inspired a Generation of
                                    American Women beautifully evokes a world in which women
                              read to construct identity and build community. In the process, they
                              also found paths to meaningful civic participation in the Progressive
                              Era. The book is organized into three sections: the first establishes
                              the context for young women's reading during the second half of
                              the nineteenth century, the second examines the role of reading in
                              privileged women's lives, and the third provides insights in the
                              reading lives of women without privilege. Portions of these elegantly
                              written essays have appeared previously as articles or book chapters,
                              yet when read collectively they represent a significant contribution
                              to the history of print culture in America.
                        Sicherman's careful examination of the role of books and reading in
                              the lives of novelist Louisa May Alcott, Bryn Mawr president M. Carey
                              Thomas, and Hull House's Jane Addams illustrates how reading
                              propelled them beyond the gender norms of their era to lives of public
                              achievement. Of particular interest to Hoosier readers is a chapter
                              devoted to the Hamiltons of Fort Wayne, whose class standing gave them
                              easy access to a wide array of books. Steeped in a print-based
                              interpretive community, the Hamiltons read passionately, played word
                              games, and created entertainments based on their favorite literary
                              themes and characters. Emerging from this context, Edith subsequently
                              became well known as  a scholar of
                              classical civilization and author of several significant works, among
                              them Mythology (1942). Also a voracious reader, her
                              sister Alice moved to Jane Addams's Hull House before becoming
                              the first woman professor at the Harvard Medical School in 1919.
                        Historically, elite women have often preserved their reactions to books
                              in diaries, correspondence, and autobiographies, but reconstructing
                              the reading habits of working-class women and racial and ethnic
                              minorities presents more of a challenge. Like their counterparts in
                              the privileged classes, Polish immigrant Hilda Satt Polacheck, Jewish
                              immigrant Rose Gollup Cohen, and anti-lynching activist Ida B. Wells
                              left autobiographies. Sicherman's close reading of
                              Polacheck's I Came a Stranger (1989),
                              Wells's Crusade for Justice (1970), and
                              Cohen's Out of the Shadow (1918) results in a
                              diligent reconstruction of how these women read for personal and civic
                              empowerment. One cannot help wondering, however, about the role of
                              reading in the lives of women who lacked the resources to capture, let
                              alone preserve, their experiences in print.
                        In an epilogue, Sicherman observes that today's proliferation of
                              reading groups affirms the continuing popularity of reading among
                              women, but unlike their nineteenth-century predecessors, busy
                              twenty-first-century female readers use book clubs less as "a
                              launching pad for public activities" and "more like places
                              of refuge" where they can reconnect with one another (pp. 255-
                              56). As Sicherman shows throughout this invaluable monograph, Gilded
                              Age women used books as vehicles for moving from highly gendered
                              private spaces into lives of public service. Reading with both emotion
                              and purpose, the women of ambition and accomplishment she portrays
                              drew insight and inspiration from the predominantly male role models
                              they encountered in print and ultimately inserted themselves into
                              history for others to read.

                        JOANNE E. PASSET is a professor of history at Indiana University
                              East. She has explored print culture, social movements, and
                              women's history in several books, including Sex
                                    Variant Woman: The Life of Jeannette Howard Foster (2008),
                                    Sex Radicals and the Quest for Women's
                                    Equality (2003), and Cultural Crusaders: Women
                                    Librarians in the American West (1994).
                  

                  
                  
                        Minority Victory Gilded Age Politics and the Front
                                    Porch Campaign of 1888
                              By Charles W. Calhoun (Lawrence: University Press of Kansas,
                              2008. Pp. xi, 243. Illustrations, appendices, notes, bibliographic
                              essay, index. $29.95.)


                        In this study of the 1888 presidential election, which pitted incumbent
                              Democrat Grover Cleveland, against Republican Benjamin Harrison of
                                          Indiana, Charles W
                              Calhoun examines the political issues that the nation faced in the
                              1880s (most notably the protective tariff); reflects on the ups and
                              downs of Cleveland's administration; and follows the complex
                              maneuvering that led the Republican Party to nominate Harrison, who
                              was something of a dark horse.
                        Calhoun draws on extensive primary source material—including campaign
                              documents, speeches, private letters, and a variety of other archival
                              materials—to examine the issues, personalities, and political
                              machinations that led to Harrison's narrow margin of victory in
                              the electoral college.
                        A notable feature of the election was Harrison's decision to
                              campaign from his front porch and other locations in
                              Indianapolis,
                              rather than to tour the country. Such a strategy no doubt enabled him
                              to seem more dignified, more presidential, by giving the impression
                              that his supporters were flocking to him. In later elections, fellow
                              Republicans William McKinley and Warren Harding would use a similar
                              method with equal effect. While Cleveland, too, stayed home, he did
                              little campaigning. Harrison campaigned aggressively, delivering, by
                              Calhoun's count, "over ninety speeches to more than 300,000
                              listeners" (p. 133). Shorthand reporters, wire services, and mass
                              production printing insured that the words he uttered in
                              Indianapolis
                              reached the whole country by the next day.
                        Calhoun's arduously gathered primary sources allow him to break free
                              of previous thought about this period. He employs this information to
                              shatter the myth that the era's politics were tedious and the
                              public unmotivated, and he convincingly demonstrates several modern
                              aspects of the campaign: the influence of business and labor, the use
                              of mass media to market the candidates, and the careful calculation of
                              political strategies. Calhoun concludes that President McKinley would
                              later pick up "where Harrison had left off" and that
                              "it was Harrison, much more than Cleveland, who set the stage for
                              the creation of the modern presidency" (p. 189).
                        Three appendices give the ballot totals from the Republican National
                              Convention, state-by-state election results, and the text of
                              Harrison's inaugural address. Extensive references and a
                              well-prepared index offer great help to the reader. If one desires to
                              quibble, this book could have spent  more time examining the campaign itself, rather than the events
                              that led up it, but Calhoun's decision to dive so deeply into the
                              election's background is a legitimate choice. The author might
                              also have given more attention to the influence of James
                              Garfield's previous front porch campaign. All the same, readers
                              interested in the creation of the modern imperial presidency—not to
                              mention those who want to learn more about the contributions of one of
                                          Indiana's favorite
                              sons—would do well to give this excellent book careful
                              examination.

                        WILLIAM D. HARPINE is Professor and Chair in the Department of
                              Communications at the University of South Carolina Aiken. His book,
                                    From the Front Porch to the Front Page: McKinley
                                    and Bryan in the 1896 Presidential Campaign, was published
                              in 2005.
                  
                  
                        The Condemnation of Blackness Race, Crime, and the
                                    Making of Modern Urban America
                              By Khalil Gibran Muhammad (Cambridge,
                              Mass.: Harvard
                              University Press, 2010. Pp. xi, 381. Illustrations, manuscript
                              sources, notes, index. $35.00.)


                        Khalil Gibran Muhammad's important book, The
                                    Condemnation of Blackness: Race, Crime, and the Making of Modern
                                    America, examines how emerging discourses on black
                              criminality marred African Americans' aspirations for racial
                              equality and shaped broader notions of race in cities such as
                              New
                              York, Philadelphia, and
                              Chicago. With a temporal focus on the period
                              between 1890 and the 1940s, Muhammad demonstrates how crime
                              statistics, conveyed through census data and pseudo-scientific
                              studies, aided the transformation of European ethnic immigrants from
                              outsiders to white Americans—and thusly, white racists and
                              supremacists. At the same time, such studies localized degeneracy and
                              criminality onto native-born blacks—city dwellers as well as southern
                              migrants. Ultimately, the rhetoric of criminality justified the
                              exclusion of blacks from the rights and privileges of citizenship for
                              generations after emancipation.
                        Muhammad draws from an exhaustive array of census data, government
                              reports, organizational records, news accounts, and personal papers
                              from scholars and activists such as James Stemons and Sadie Tanner
                              Mossell Alexander. He builds his argument through an examination of
                              the writing that followed the 1890 census including works by Frederick
                              L. Hoffman, W. E. B. Du Bois, Ida B. Wells, Franz Boas, and Frances
                              Kelly, to name a few. Hoffman's Race Traits and
                                    Tendencies of the American Negro (1896), Muhammad notes,
                              "tied  black criminality to a
                              repudiation of abolitionists' and neo-abolitionists' claims
                              that with freedom, education, and moral training blacks would
                              gradually achieve equality with whites" (p. 51). Hoffman
                              highlighted rising black crime despite an increase in the number of
                              black churches and schools—for him proof—positive that criminality was
                              a black thing rather than attributable to social ills. Muhammad
                              juxtaposes Hoffman's claims with those of Du Bois and Wells, who
                              refuted such arguments by diagramming structural bigotry and mapping
                              the racism that attended policing and criminal justice
                              administration.
                        Through such analysis, Muhammad deftly critiques liberal white writers of
                              the time. He follows transitions in mainstream scholarship to
                              explicate the shift from biological notions of criminality to broader
                              indictments of poverty and exclusion in the early twentieth century.
                              Yet Muhammad notes that even as a small cohort of white liberals
                              acknowledged northern racism, they remained "deeply ambivalent
                              about black criminality and immorality" (p. 139). That
                              ambivalence impeded reform efforts for African Americans; ethnic
                              immigrants and poor whites, almost exclusively, benefitted from
                              settlement houses and other initiatives aimed at alleviating poverty
                              and arresting crime.
                        Through his examination of the complexities of black reforms, Muhammad
                              argues that black activists ironically "contributed to the
                              racialization of crime prevention by linking racial progress to crime
                              fighting" (p. 193). Attempting to secure municipal resources and
                              police protection, black reformers called attention to crime in black
                              areas—in their minds fewer criminals would help to eliminate negative
                              stereotypes and simultaneously create safe neighborhoods for black
                              children. But when police responded to individual calls, they did so
                              without regard for black civil liberties. Muhammad provides evidence
                              of blacks, attacked by whites, ending up in jail or themselves beaten
                              by police. He skillfully uses the Philadelphia
                                    Tribune, the city's black newspaper, to give voice to
                              the frustrations of local blacks. The story of a middle-class black
                              woman's act of self-defense in Philadelphia in 1918, for example,
                              spotlights not only the prevalence of white-on-black crime, but also
                              the limited justice available to African Americans—even those of good,
                              middle-class standing, as was the case with Adella Bond. However, a
                              more nuanced examination of the gendered aspects of race and crime
                              might have added an important layer to our understanding of the
                              complexity of these issues.
                        Muhammad's work incisively indicts the role of falsely labeled race-
                              neutral tools like crime statistics in allowing European ethnic
                              immigrants access to the full rights of citizenship at the same time
                              that they encouraged the exclusion of native-born blacks. His study is
                              a testament to the  enduring nature
                              of these tools; his caution against the "ubiquitous referencing
                              of crime statistics about black criminality today," given the
                              silence that often surrounds white crime, is both provocative and
                              well-founded (p. 277). Undoubtedly, his book will be a seminal text
                              for historical, as well as contemporary, studies of race, crime, and
                              urbanity.







                        KALI NICOLE GROSS is Associate Professor of History and Director of
                              Africana Studies at Drexel University. She is the author of the
                              award-winning book, Colored Amazons: Crime, Violence, and
                                    Black Women in the City of Brotherly Love, 1880-1910 (2006)
                              and is currently finishing her second book, A Ghastly
                                    Find: Mary Hannah Tabbs and the Case of the Disembodied Torso,
                                    Philadelphia 1887.
                  
                  
                        New Women of the Old Faith Gender and American
                                    Catholicism in the Progressive Era
                              By Kathleen Sprows Cummings (Chapel Hill: University of
                              North Carolina Press, 2009. Pp. xvii, 278. Illustrations, notes,
                              bibliography, index. $45.00.)


                        Scholars of gender often benefit from tracing the societal intersections
                              that guided women toward power—unless the topic concerns the Roman
                              Catholic Church. Under the broad umbrella of Catholicism, authority
                              and womanhood stand apart, seemingly intractable antagonists in a
                              history that stretches over centuries. In her thoughtful book, New Women of the Old Faith: Gender and American
                                    Catholicism in the Progressive Era, Kathleen Sprows
                              Cummings challenges that assumption, illuminating the intellectual and
                              spiritual complexities of faith-driven women.
                        Within the context of the Progressive Era, when an emerging female
                              identity remained largely grounded in Protestant ideologies, Cummings
                              examines the lives and thoughts of four Catholic women, two religious
                              and two secular. This multiple character design is risky, as a text
                              can lose its thematic unity or its subjects can appear forced into a
                              pre-ordained conclusion. Cummings avoids these problems, giving this
                              work its purchase from richly diversified primary research conducted
                              in numerous archives, buttressed by a wealth of secondary literature.
                              The result is a monograph of balanced interpretation that considers
                              how Catholic women viewed their religion, themselves, and their life
                              choices in early twentieth-century America.
                        Cummings argues that Catholic women carefully maneuvered themselves into
                              aspects of the "new woman" image associated with higher
                              education, professional occupations, and suffragist impulses, even as
                              their church fiercely opposed 
                              changing female behaviors. She successfully demonstrates that Catholic
                              women invoked early religious "heroines" as indicators of
                              the way the church uplifted its distaff side, endorsed female
                              enlightenment, and stamped out ancient pagan oppression. Praising
                              these feminine models of the European past in modern
                              America,
                              Progressive Era women relied on non-threatening language and demeanor
                              to secure gender concessions, promote their own public authority, and
                              stay within church-approved boundaries. Essentially these female
                              church loyalists adopted the quixotic position that inside the
                              United
                              States democracy, charged by its documents to uphold republican
                              ideals, the true gender liberator remained a non-American organization
                              that by law and custom openly denied women equality.
                        Cummings's insightful assessment of the religious vision and
                              personal goals of women standing on shifting Catholic ground proves
                              one of the major strengths of her book. Few authors tackle the
                              subjects of professed religious and their lay counterparts in the same
                              study, for the two—regardless of their close interactions—live out
                              different world-views. As Cummings unravels their attitudes and
                              actions, she shows that harmony as well as contention moved events
                              within and across both groups.
                        There is much here for those interested in America's heartland. Granted, the
                              four women centered their energies on building parochial education in
                                          Philadelphia,
                              advancing the Catholic press in Chicago, countering the suffragist
                              movement in Boston, or founding Trinity College for Women in
                                          Washington,
                                    D.C. While the focus of these endeavors
                              lay outside Indiana, they
                              nevertheless relate to a state that boasts a healthy network of
                              parochial classrooms, a solid place in Catholic publication, suffrage
                              activism that dates to the 1850s, and two Catholic women's
                              institutions: St. Mary-of-the-Woods and St. Mary's College. To
                              make the connection directly: Katherine Conway, the
                              Boston
                              anti-suffragist, joined the faculty at the latter school in
                              Notre
                              Dame, Indiana, where she taught the
                              legendary Mandaleva Wolff, who was destined to be a Sister of the Holy
                              Cross, president of her alma mater, and a leader in women's
                              higher education.
                        An epilogue comparing Cummings's four women to particular
                              twentieth-century feminists introduces a fresh literary device and
                              suffers from brevity. Criticism aside, Cummings offers a readable and
                              original contribution to the literature of Catholic womanhood,
                              professed and secular. It is highly recommended to scholars of gender
                              and religion-and all Hoosiers.

                        ANNE M. BUTLER is Trustee Professor, Emeritus, of history at Utah
                              State University. She has published widely on the subject of Catholic
                              sisterhoods, especially those in the American West.
                  

                  
                  
                        The Chicago Sports Reader 100 Years of Sports in the
                                    Windy City
                              Edited by Steven A. Riess and Gerald R. Gems
                              (Urbana:
                              University of Illinois Press, 2009. Pp. 368. Maps, illustrations,
                              notes, index. Clothbound, $75.00; paperbound, $24.95.)


                        While cities such as New York and
                                          Boston seem to
                              dominate the narrative of the rise of sports in American history,
                                          Chicago—without
                              question a sports-loving town-has also played its part, particularly
                              in the period before World War II. The thirteen essays in this
                              collection—all but one of which have been previously
                              published—demonstrate Chicago's importance in the
                              professionalization and commercialization of sports in the
                              United
                              States.
                        The editors' excellent introduction not only provides a
                              chronological foundation upon which the array of essays are built, it
                              also supplies additional context and detail for those essays that
                              center on less familiar sports: cycling, car racing, and horseracing.
                              To be sure, the city's more obvious sports stories remain, with
                              Daniel Nathan's first-rate retelling of the Black Sox scandal and
                              Walter LeFeber's well-known take on Michael Jordan and global
                              capitalism. But the pieces that truly stand out are those that take on
                              sports other than the Big Four and integrate them into a larger local
                              and national history. Riess's own piece, for example, examines
                              horseracing through the lens of organized crime, while Cord
                              Scott's essay on car racing makes it clear why
                              Chicago was chosen
                              to host the 1893 Race of the Century, the first of its kind in the
                              U.S., alongside the World's Columbian Exposition. In a similar
                              vein, Bruce J. Evensen analyzes the Dempsey-Tunney fight within the
                              context of the rise of sports media, demonstrating why his book on the
                              same topic is far more than a history of the two fighters.
                        Because of its variety, this is a very teachable text. Short
                              introductions to each essay provide solid background material and
                              connect to the volume as a whole, and the scholars represented offer
                              access to a variety of methodologies. Robin Dale Lester's essay
                              on Amos Alonzo Stagg, for example, the first tenured coach in the
                              U.S., demonstrates a near-perfect way to use biography to discuss the
                              bigger picture. Susan Cahn's exceptional essay about the
                              All-American Girls Baseball League—unfortunately the only one to focus
                              specifically on gender and one of the few to deal with the later
                              period—with its easy prose and sound arguments, shows how women's
                              history should be integrated within a broader scope.
                        That Cahn's essay stands alone may be the only significant shortfall
                              of this book, even though the introduction demonstrates the plentiful
                              history of women in Chicago sports. And this collection certainly had
                                     space for more essays
                              devoted to women. The Chicago Blackhawks seem to be an important
                              enough subject for the editors to have solicited John Chi-Kit
                              Wong's essay, the only one specifically written for the
                              collection. David Claerbaut's descriptive history of the Chicago
                              Cubs stands out rather oddly with its lack of cited sources and little
                              content that anyone other than a Cubs fan would care about, taking up
                              space in an otherwise finely honed critical collection.
                        With that said, this volume makes a significant contribution not just to
                              sports history or Chicago history, but also to the story of the
                              development of mass culture in urban America between the Civil War and
                              World War II. It is a worthy book, indeed.

                        AMY BASS is Associate Professor of History at the College of New
                              Rochelle. She is the author of Not the Triumph but the
                                    Struggle: 1968 Olympics and the Making of the Black Athlete
                              (2002), Those About Him Remained Silent: The Battle over
                                    W E. B. Du Bois (2009), and editor of In the
                                    Game: Race, Identity, and Sports in the Twentieth Century
                              (2005).
                  

                  
                        Catching Stories A Practical Guide to Oral
                                    History
                              By Donna M. DeBlasio, Charles E Ganzert, David H. Mould, Stephen
                              H. Paschen, and Howard L. Sacks (Athens, Ohio: Swallow Press,
                              2009. Pp. xii, 218. Illustrations, notes, bibliographies, index.
                              Clothbound, $26.95; paperbound, $16.95.)


                        As someone who is deeply involved in the art and science of oral history
                              and has contributed to a "how-to" book focusing on oral
                              history, I often wonder how many more such books should join the
                              pantheon. Keeping an open mind when a new book in this genre appears
                              has, in this case, led to quite a find—Catching Stories:
                                    A Practical Guide to Oral History.
                        The authors did not intend this volume for the seasoned practitioner.
                              They offer it primarily to those folks, from the county historian to
                              the community volunteer, who want to "add oral history to their
                              toolkit of methods" and gain the "confidence to take on new
                              projects" (p. ix).
                        Breaking the process into eleven chapters, the authors walk the beginner
                              through oral history from initial idea to finished product. Giving
                              readers the essential information to undertake and complete an oral
                              history project should stand as the least accomplishment of a how-to
                              book. Catching Stories' creators hit that mark
                              and more by offering a piece that should be part of any fledgling, or
                              veteran, oral historian's bookcase.
                        Having multiple contributing authors could cause a work to seem  disjointed, but Catching Stories does not read that way. The authors 
                              present their material concisely and cogently. One can assume that their
                              years of working together aided the book's smooth transitions,
                              supporting the oral history maxim that building rapport will benefit
                              an interview or project.
                        While newcomers will welcome all chapters in this book, and will
                              particularly appreciate the anecdotes that flesh out key points, this
                              reviewer found the sections on current technology the most useful. Too
                              many recent how-to books gloss over technology, hiding behind the
                              excuse of constant change. The interdisciplinary focus of the guide
                              allowed Charles Ganzert to use his technical knowledge and writing
                              skills to open up all aspects of sight and sound to readers. These
                              chapters give those interested an excellent overview of the challenges
                              of recording—either with audio or audio/video-in these early years of
                              the twenty-first century.
                        In most book reviews, this second-to-last paragraph seemingly exists to
                              offer criticism of any kind. While people who will read this book with
                              a fine-toothed comb might offer some comments here, there appears to
                              be little to dissuade someone from purchasing this book. In addition
                              to its content, its length and its price will appeal to a wide range
                              of readers.
                        While Hoosiers will find no anecdotes specific to their state—the authors
                              drew their examples exclusively from the Buckeye State—anyone from
                                          Indiana (or any other
                              state) will benefit from reading about how others have tackled oral
                              history projects. Catching Stories may not stand as
                              the best how-to book on the subject; however, it should be included in
                              the discussion. And anyone interested in learning (or being reminded)
                              about the art and science of oral history should give it a thorough
                              read. They will not finish it disappointed.

                        TROY REEVES is the head of the Oral History Program at the
                              University of Wisconsin-Madison.
                  
                  
                        Liberty on the Border: A Civil War Exhibit
                              Center for History in South Bend, Indiana
                              October 2, 2010 - May 8, 2011


                        A pair of handcuffs used to shackle slaves and a digitized copy of a bill
                              of sale for an enslaved human being are the first artifacts you see
                              when visiting Liberty on the Border: A Civil War
                              Exhibit, at the Center for History in
                              South Bend. This
                              exhibition, on loan from the Cincinnati Museum Center, highlights the
                              conflict over slavery and race along the  Ohio/Kentucky border in three parts: I.
                              "Liberty Denied" (the antebellum period), II.
                              "Liberty's Trial" (the Civil War), and III.
                              "Liberty's Legacy" (the way the Civil War has been
                              remembered). Since Indiana also borders
                              Kentucky, the exhibit is relevant to Hoosiers, and it features several
                              artifacts from the Center for History's own Civil War collection.
                              I visited the display, alone and with several college classes, and
                              found that its engaging, hands-on, interactive displays, and its use
                              of music from the time period, combined with informative traditional
                              board displays and artifacts to make it worth a trip to the
                              museum.
                        "Liberty Denied" compares the views of slavery supporters and
                              abolitionists in Ohio and Kentucky through text boards that feature
                              reproductions of paintings and photographs, as well as in intriguing
                              displays such as "Slave Music: Real and Perceived," where
                              visitors push a button and listen either to an idealized slave song
                              created by white minstrel singers or to the authentic music (albeit
                              recorded in the twentieth century) sung by slaves themselves. Nearby,
                              one hears the haunting recollections of former slaves, recorded by the
                              Federal Writers' Project in the 1940s. This kind of contrast is
                              one of the main themes of the exhibit.
                        Perhaps my favorite display was "A Question of Liberty," a
                              video touchscreen with six antebellum characters, from a southern
                              white slaveholding woman to a northern free black man. When you touch
                              the person's name on the screen, you hear the character talk
                              about the dilemmas he or she faces, while photographs representing
                              scenes from his or her life appear on the screen. Two other characters
                              then argue with the first about slavery, race, or class, bringing home
                              the reasons that different people felt the way they did about slavery
                              and about each other.
                        "Liberty's Trial" contains the largest number of
                              artifacts, perhaps because the Civil War is so revered in American
                              memory. An army belt and buckle, a New Testament, a .44 caliber Colt
                              Army Revolver, and an example of the .38 caliber minie ball that
                              caused such a high number of casualties are all on display. The Center
                              for History adds its own ball of grapeshot, embedded in a tree
                              trunk.
                        Interactive displays in "Liberty's Trial" include
                              "What Would You Do?", a set of three scenarios in which the
                              visitor, identifying as a slave in Kentucky, must choose whether or
                              not to escape to Union lines. After deciding "yes" or
                              "no," each person lifts the cover to see his or her fate.
                              Slavery was protected in Kentucky, so a recaptured runaway would
                              probably be beaten or sold—a fate that one might also meet staying in
                              slavery. Still, a runaway's chances improved as the war
                              progressed. These stations effectively convey the quandary of slaves
                              in a border state.
                        The exhibit of a life-size porch with a recording on enlistment was less
                              effective. Stepping onto the 
                              wooden porch, I pushed a button on a barrel and heard a recording of a
                              horse's hooves and the voice of a Union recruiter. The voices of
                              a recruit and a pro-Confederate man follow, but because the sound is
                              unclear and the context is not given anywhere nearby, the interchange
                              is confusing.
                        The final part of the exhibit, "Liberty's Legacy,"
                              features artifacts as contrasting as Mammy figurines, dignified
                              sculptures of soldiers, and civil rights movement buttons. Highlights
                              of this section include selections from films such as The
                                    Birth of a Nation, Roots, and Glory. Like
                              the contrasting slave songs, these juxtaposed portrayals of African
                              Americans from 1915 to 1989 are striking.
                        History Channel documentaries, running continuously on television screens
                              in wooden cases among the displays, provide some background on women
                              during the Civil War and other subjects. A final documentary clip,
                              "One Flag, Two Meanings," explores the controversy over the
                              Confederate flag as a state flag. The meaning of the Civil War is
                              still contested, and Liberty on the Border sheds
                              light on the most crucial issue of the war and on the racial issues
                              still facing our nation today. 
                        MONICA MARIA TETZLAFF is Associate Professor of History at Indiana
                              University South Bend. She is also the historian for the IU South
                              Bend Civil Rights Heritage Center and coordinates its oral history
                              project and collections.
                  

                  

                  

                        REVIEW NOTICES


                        True Brew A Guide to Craft Beer in Indiana
                              By Rita T. Kohn. Photographs by Kris Arnold.
                              (Bloomington:
                              Indiana University Press, 2010. Pp. xx, 263. Maps, Illustrations,
                              index. Paperbound, $19.95.)

                        In celebration of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the repeal of
                              Prohibition, Rita T. Kohn interviewed a number of Indiana craft brewers to discover
                              the challenges they faced bringing their products to the public.
                              Although Indiana has a 200-year
                              history of small-scale or hand-crafted brewing, craft beers have
                              enjoyed increasing popularity in the past few years. The author
                              believes that the current state of the industry in Indiana "reflects a balance
                              between the neighborhood brewpub and a microbrewery" (p. xvi).
                              Her book—more a representative sampling than a comprehensive
                              encyclopedia of all that Indiana offers—provides the reader
                              interesting insights into many of the state's beers, brewers, and
                              breweries, including the immensely popular Sun King Brewery in
                              Indianapolis and
                              Upland Brewing Company in Bloomington.


                        Madura's Danceland
                              By Patricia Madura Ward-Steinman (Charleston,
                              S.C.: Arcadia
                              Publishing, 2010. Pp. 128. Illustrations, bibliography, index.
                              Paperbound, $21.99.) 
                        This addition to Arcadia's Images of America series offers a glimpse
                              into midwestern popular culture from 1929 to 1967 through the lens of
                              Madura's Danceland, a family-operated dance hall in
                              Whiting,
                                          Indiana, that was
                              popular throughout the Calumet region. Utilizing newspapers,
                              advertisements, posters, song sheets, and family photographs, Patricia
                              Madura Ward-Steinman, the daughter and granddaughter of the owners,
                              weaves the history of the establishment into a broader context.
                              Readers can see the impact of the major events of the twentieth
                              century, including Prohibition, the Great Depression, and World War
                              II, upon this family business. Madura's
                                    Danceland also provides a glimpse of the famous bands who
                              performed at the venue over the decades, and in the process shows the
                              transition from the jazz and big band sounds of the 1930s and 1940s to
                              the beginnings of rock 'n' roll in the 1950s.


                        

                        The Land, The People
                              By Rachel Peden (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 2010. Pp.
                              368. Illustrations. Paperbound, $19.95.)

                        Much more than a personal memoir, Rachel Peden's The
                                    Land, The People is an ode to a way of life. Peden moved to
                              a farm during the Great Depression, and for nearly half a century she
                              wrote a weekly column on agrarian life which appeared in both the Indianapolis Star and the Muncie
                                    Evening Press. In this reprint of the original 1966
                              collection of her essays, Peden describes her life as a farm wife and
                              mother, meditates on industrialization and its effects, and laments
                              that the family farm is "among our diminishing natural
                              resources" (p. xviii). With language echoing Emerson and Thoreau,
                              Peden's work reveals her love of land and soil. Although
                              ostensibly about the simple life, this thoughtful book raises complex
                              issues still relevant today.




                        Diana of the Dunes The True Story of Alice Gray
                              By Janet Zenke Edwards (Charleston,
                              S.C.: The History Press,
                              2010. Pp. 157. Illustrations, appendices, notes. Paperbound,
                              $19.99)

                        Diana of the Dunes has been the stuff of newpaper stories, legends, and
                              ghost tales in the Calumet region of Indiana since the early twentieth century.
                              Alice Gray, the real-life Diana, was born in Chicago in 1881. She
                              graduated from the University of Chicago in 1903, concentrating in
                              mathematics, and went to work at the U.S. Naval Observatory. This
                              intelligent and accomplished woman, who went on to study in
                              Germany
                              and to return for graduate studies in Chicago, suddenly left her urban
                              life in 1915. Gray moved to an abandoned fishing shack along the
                              shores of Lake Michigan in northern Indiana. Her retreat from civilization to
                              be close to nature became the fascination of the area's press for
                              the next decade, until her death in 1925. The author includes excerpts
                              from Gray's diary in an interesting appendix.




                        Opera for All Seasons 60 Years of Indiana University
                                    Opera Theater
                              By Marianne Williams Tobias. Contributing Editors George Calder,
                              Nancy J. Guyer, C. David Higgins, and Charles Webb
                              (Bloomington:
                              Indiana University Press, 2010. Pp. vii, 496. Illustrations,
                              appendices. $39.95.)

                        This sumptuously illustrated book chronicles the six-decade history of
                              Indiana University Bloomington's Opera Theater. Boasting
                              captioned black-and-white and color photographs of hundreds of
                              productions, the volume considers the theater's history by topic:
                              premieres and first productions, the core repertory, diverse and
                              unusual productions, operas presented on tour, summer musicals and
                              operettas,  and finally a glimpse
                              behind the scenes. Three appendices offer complete lists of operas by
                              season, operas by title, and singers by role. Graduates of the Jacobs
                              School of Music and the many thousands of opera lovers who have
                              attended the theater over the decades will appreciate the book's
                              evocative rendering of past productions. Given the expertise of the
                              author and the depth of knowledge shared by her four contributing
                              editors, however, historically minded readers and opera enthusiasts
                              will wish that more than twenty-nine pages of this substantial book
                              were devoted to text.




                        The Peculiar Boars of Malloy
                              By Doug Crandell (DeKalb,
                              Ill.: Switchgrass Books, 2010. Pp.
                              235. Paperbound, $13.95.)

                        This is an engaging and richly anecdotal coming-of-age novel—with a
                              twist. Doug Crandall's award-winning farcical story tells the
                              tale of a rural Indiana farmer who is
                              the laughing stock of his town and a disappointment to his sons. In an
                              attempt to bolster his masculinity and impress his neighbors, the
                              farmer purchases two boars. The irony is that the two boars turn out
                              to be gay and in a deeply committed relationship. The media flock to
                              report the unique story—their coverage distorting truth and value.
                              The author artfully weaves animal rights and gay rights into this
                              uniquely midwestern satire.


                        Riley Child-Rhymes with Hoosier Pictures
                              By James Whitcomb Riley (Bloomington: Indiana University
                              Press, 2010. Pp. xviii, 166. Illustrations. $17.95.)

                        In 1895, James Whitcomb Riley published a small book of poems, many of
                              which would remain famous for generations, including "Little
                              Orphant Annie" and "The Raggedy Man." This
                              well-produced little volume is a reprint of the 1905 edition with
                              illustrations by Brown County artist Will Vawter. Readers only vaguely
                              familiar with Riley will enjoy reading some of his best-known poems,
                              including several of the author's famous "dialect"
                              poems, written in Riley' s somewhat fanciful rendition of a
                              southern Indiana accent.
                              Riley's poetry is especially enjoyable when read aloud—"The
                              Bear Story" alone is worth the price of this book.




                        Spookiest Stories Ever Four Seasons of Kentucky
                                    Ghosts
                              By Roberta Simpson Brown and Lonnie E. Brown
                              (Lexington:
                              University Press of Kentucky, 2010. Pp. xviii, 259. Illustrations.
                              $24.95.)

                        Many presses have anthologized the "haunted" tales belonging to
                              a variety of cities and states, but too often these books are poorly
                              written. Enter Roberta and Lonnie Brown, who have collected a
                              wonderful set of ghost stories from the state of Kentucky, organized
                              the stories by the four  seasons,
                              and retold them with a storyteller's flair for language. Read a
                              few of these out loud around a campfire in the summer or by the
                              fireside at night and see if you can go to sleep without one look
                              behind the door and another under the bed.
                  




            
            
                  
                  
                  
                  
            
      
