
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 15, Issue 4, pages 293-380. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:15+issue:4+year:1919&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Indiana In the Mexican War
            THE BUENA VISTA CAMPAIGN
            R. C. BULEY.
            (Continued)
            When it became evident that Santa Anna was coming north to offer battle, General
                    Taylor began selecting his position. Agua Nueva was probably the best strategic
                    position within one hundred miles of 
                        Saltillo
                    . The enemy in advancing in a direct line from San Luis de Potosi
                    would have to approach by the hacienda La Encarnation. To reach Agua Nueva from
                    there the Mexican army would be compelled to cross thirty-five miles of desert.
                    No water could be obtained in this stretch and the first to be had after
                    crossing was controlled by the Americans. Another argument in favor of fighting
                    at Agua Nueva was the dispiriting moral effect a retreat would have had upon the
                    morale of raw troops, even tho that retreat were made to secure a better
                    position. But these advantages all depended upon Santa Anna's
                    approaching by La Encarnation and the direct road. There were two other routes
                    by which he might with great exertion, reach the American army. To the right by
                    La Hedionda, he might gain Buena Vista in the rear of Taylor's army; to
                    the left by La Punta de Santa Elena he might attain the hacienda San Juan de la
                    Vaqueria, which would control the road to 
                        Saltillo
                     and cut the American line of communications. Either of these moves
                    would have necessitated a retreat by the American army. Fourteen miles to the
                    rear of Agua Nueva was another location, which, as early as the December
                    previous, General Wood had selected  as an
                    excellent battle site. This was the pass and plateau of Buena Vista.
            The time from February 10 to 20, 1847, was diligently employed in reconnoitering
                    roads and approaches and in drilling and disciplining the troops. General Taylor
                    placed the camp and instruction of the troops under General Wool, whose long
                    experience and skill well fitted him for the work. On the 20th a strong
                    reconnoitring party of approximately four hundred, under Brevet-Lieutenant
                    Colonel C. A. May, was sent to the valley in which the hacienda of Potosi was
                    located, to ascertain the location of General Minon's brigade at 
                        Potosi
                    , and, if possible, to investigate the approach by the La Hedionda
                    route. It was thot that General Minon's cavalry was being used as a
                    feint to blind Taylor and cover the movements of the main army under Santa Anna.
                    Lieutenant-Colonel May was barely able to draw in all his outposts and make a
                    night retreat before Minon's squadrons. On the 21st he brought to
                    Taylor and Wool the news of the nearness of the Mexican army. These generals
                    went into conference at Agua Nueva, and, when Major McCulloch reported that he
                    had viewed a Mexican army of at least twenty thousand, promptly decided to
                    retire to the "Pass of Thermopylae" near Buena Vista.
                    Taylor's army, since being cut down by the regulars sent to Scott,
                    numbered only four thousand seven hundred and fifty-nine men.23 The whole movement from 
                        Saltillo
                     had been merely a reconnoissance in force, for he could spare no
                    men to hold a line of communications and fight. A rear guard of 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Arkansas
                     cavalry and Steens' regulars was left at Agua Nueva to
                    remove the stores and hold the place as long as possible. The remainder of the
                    army retired to Buena Vista. The Mexicans arrived rather sooner than expected
                    and the guard burned the provisions and retired during the night of February 21,
                    fighting stubbornly until it joined the main army to the north. The quick work
                    of the American generals deceived Santa Anna. He had hoped to get
                    Minon's cavalry in Taylor's rear at Agua Neuva, and, striking
                    with his main force, crush the American army. To do this he had been making
                    forced marches across thirty-five miles of desert, and, short of supplies, he
                    pressed recklessly on. When he reached his favorite spot he found 
                  
                     23 Official Report, National
                                Documents, 1847–8, p 140.
               
                     only the retreating guard. Without rest,
                    only a little food, and a single draught of water, the army now hurried fourteen
                    miles farther.
            BUENA VISTA
            About five miles south of 
                        Saltillo
                    , on the road to San Luis Potosi, was the hacienda, or sheep ranch
                    called San Juan de la Buena Vista. A few flat roofed clay dwellings and a corral
                    about one hundred and fifty feet square were the only buildings to mark the
                    place. These blended harmoniously with the desolation of the surrounding
                    scenery. Far away to the south stretched the plateau, bounded only by the
                    mountains on the east and west. Cacti and Spanish bayonets were the only green
                    vegetation to break the dull gray of the land.
            The pass of Buena Vista breaks a chain of lofty mountains, which, running from
                    east to west divided the valley north of 
                        Saltillo
                     from the more elevated part around La Encantada. This valley is
                    from one and one half to four miles wide. At the southern and narrowest end is
                    La Encantada; at the north, the city of 
                        Saltillo
                    . From Encantada a small stream flows northward thru the pass to 
                        Saltillo
                     and finally to the Rio Selinas. The portion of the pass east of the
                    stream was some sixty or seventy feet above that on the west side. It was also
                    much broader and resembled an elevated table. The road from 
                        Saltillo
                     to Agua Nueva continued along this upper plain for the first five
                    miles, to the ranch of Buena Vista. For the next mile the road ran across a
                    series of dry ravines, then descended to the lower level, where it followed a
                    very narrow strip of land between the stream and the outstanding spurs of the
                    tableland above. At the point where the road first struck the lower level, going
                    southward, the strip of land between the first and highest spur and the
                    perpendicular bank of the stream was barely wide enough for its passage. This
                    point was known as La Angostura, or The Narrows.
            It was at this site, selected by General Wool and approved by Taylor, that the
                    American army awaited the attack of the Mexicans. The defensive advantages of
                    the ground would enable the American army to meet the Mexicans on more even
                    terms. The ravines and ridges would minimize the effect of cavalry and artillery
                    and greatly reduce the advantage due to numerical superiority in infantry.
            
            The Second and Third Indiana had been with Taylor at Agua Nueva. It was very cool
                    on the elevated plateau and snow fell. Pitch pine was used for wood. The
                    extended plain dotted with white tents and gorgeous sunsets presented a very
                    inspiring scene. On February 21 the Indiana troops, along with the rest of the
                    army, struck tents and marched back to 
                        Saltillo
                    . The next morning, after breakfast, they marched out one and
                    one-half miles and took up a position on the edge of the plateau.
            The key to the field of Buena Vista was La Angostura or the Narrows. To prevent
                    Santa Anna's passage along the road at this point Captain J. M.
                    Washington's battery was posted. Supporting this battery was two
                    companies of the first 
                        Illinois
                     infantry (Colonel John J. Hardin) behind breastworks, and six
                    companies on the hill above. To further protect this part of the field General
                    Taylor placed the Third Indiana under Col. James H. Lane on a hill just north of
                    the six 
                        Illinois
                     companies and to the left of the battery.
            Eight or ten ravines broke the plateau into long ridges or arms. As these
                    continued across the road to the west they became steep-sided gorges sixty or
                    seventy feet deep, and practically impassable. The most feasable way for Santa
                    Anna to gain the plateau, then, would be by way of these deep paths cutting into
                    it. With the Narrows taken care of, it was necessary for General Wool to look
                    after the defense of these ravines. In the south part of the plateau three
                    ravines running from west to east, led directly into the center of
                    Taylor's position. Here the first attack would surely fall. Near the
                    end of the southern and longest of the three ravines, General Wool posted the
                    Second Indiana under Colonel Bowles, to support Lieut. John P. J.
                    O'Brien and three guns. Gen. Joseph Lane had charge of the regiment and
                    batteries. All the other troops were placed in relation to that most advanced
                    position. At the left and to the rear of the Second was Col. Humphrey
                    Marshall's 
                        Kentucky
                     cavalry and a squadron of Second 
                        United States
                     dragoons. They were to guard the passageway between the plateau and
                    the mountain. One-fourth mile to the rear and right of the Second was Col.
                    William H. Bissell's Second 
                        Illinois
                     and a section of Bragg's battery to help Bowles if needed,
                    and watch the second and third ravines. The third command  in this "stair step" formation
                    was William R. McKee's Second 
                        Kentucky
                     infantry and Capt. T. W. Sherman's battery. To the rear of
                    these regiments and at the head of the largest ravine was stationed Colonel
                    Cell's 
                        Arkansas
                     cavalry in reserve. This ravine, the largest of the three, was
                    known as La Bosco de la Bestarros. To keep the Second Indiana from being flanked
                    by troops taking the mountain at its left, a battalion of riflemen was formed of
                    two companies from the Second and Third Indiana Regiments and placed on the
                    ridge overlooking the plateau. The above was the disposition of the troops at
                    the middle of the afternoon of February 22.
            In the morning of the 22d great clouds of dust to the south towards Angostura had
                    already announced the arrival of the Mexicans. About eleven o'clock,
                    General Taylor was sitting on his horse taking a final survey of his forces,
                    when a note was brought to him. It was from Santa Anna himself, and stated that
                    the Americans were surrounded by twenty thousand men and the only way out would
                    be a surrender at discretion. General Taylor politely declined this summons.
            Santa Anna's army consisted of twenty-eight battalions of infantry and
                    thirty-nine squadrons of cavalry. The Mexicans possessed by way of artillery,
                    three twenty-four pounders, three sixteen pounders, five twelve pounders, five
                    eight pounders, and one seven inch howitzer. Besides these guns there were
                    several large pieces not mounted that were drawn in wagons. Five hundred trained
                    artillerymen manned the guns. All told the Mexican army numbered 18,133 men.24
            
            As the Mexicans approached the volunteers were struck with the fine appearance of
                    the army. Lombardini's division came up in full sight. The men were in
                    full dress, the horses gaily caparisoned, the battle standards unfurled, the
                    infantry marching in perfect step, and the cavalry advancing as on parade.25 Santa Anna began the attack with a feint along the road
                    thru the pass of Angostura. Meanwhile, with a heavy artillery accompaniment, the
                    Mexican light brigade swarmed up the ridge held by the American riflemen under
                    Major Willis Gorman, to the left of General Lane. All on the plateau below
                    watched this struggle. Darkness fell in the 
                  
                     24 Santa Anna's official report; General
                            Howard, Life of Taylor, estimates Santa
                            Anna's army at 20,050 men.
                  
                     25 Carleton, Battle of Buena.
                            Vista, p 56.
               
                     midst of it. Those below could not hear the
                    rifles but could see the flashes. Major Cravens, awake by his regiment, said
                    they reminded him of June in Indiana and the fireflies gleaming across a meadow.
                    Shortly after dark all became silent save the enemy's trumphets. They
                    possessed a peculiar melody to the Americans, lying on their arms, hungry, and
                    shivering with cold.
            Evidently the front of the plateau was too well defended to risk an attack there,
                    so Santa Anna planned to turn the American left by getting a passageway at the
                    base of the mountain. Under cover of night he planted a battery of five eight
                    pounders in range to rake lengthwise the Second Indiana and
                    O'Brien's battery. This battery was supported by cavalry and
                    seven thousand infantry were massed noiselessly in the ravine, where they
                    bivouacked.
            Dawn on the 23d was announced by an outbreak of the Mexican artillery. The
                    morning was unusually bright and clear, the Mexican arms sparkling in the
                    morning sun. Flags and pennants floated in the breeze. The rattle of musketry,
                    the crack of the rifles, bugle calls, the shouts of those already engaged higher
                    up on the mountain and the screech of the cannon balls united to make a scene
                    never to be forgotten by the Americans quietly awaiting the attack.
            Major Mansfield of the engineers returning from a reconnoissance reported the
                    exact position of General Pacheco's division; Inspector-General
                    Churchill who rode to the left of the plateau to inform General Lane that the
                    enemy was then coming up and across the main ravine in front, found General Lane
                    at this moment the ranking officer on the plateau, as General Wool had gone to
                    La Angostura to arrange for an attack there. General Lane immediately ordered
                    forward Lieutenant O'Brien and his three pieces of artillery supported
                    by the Second Regiment of Indiana volunteers. These troops advanced more than
                    two hundred yards in front of the other troops, turned the edge of the third
                    gorge and halted, O'Brien placing his section in battery and the column
                    of companies forming into line on his left, with the front thrown diagonally
                    across the road.26
            
            After the preliminary actions the Mexican infantry division 
                  
                     26 Carleton, Battle of Buena
                            Vista, 56.
               
                     under Lombardini bursting forth from the
                    ravine, gained a foothold on the plateau where, in column of brigades, it
                    confronted O'Brien's battery and the Second Indiana. It was a
                    trying moment for the volunteers who found themselves face to face with
                    thousands of veterans in solid column, with their gaudy uniforms and showy
                    banners. The manoeuvre by which the Mexicans gained their positions was well
                    executed. While the struggle with the first column was yet undecided another
                    Mexican column poured forth from the ravine and fell in beside the first. The
                    attack of the Mexicans was met with steadiness and effect. In addition to the
                    fire in front General Lane's command was being enfiladed by the battery
                    of eight pounders on the heights.
            The unequal conflict continued for twenty-five minutes.27 The
                    front lines of the Mexicans gave way but were replaced by others. The infantry
                    fire of the Mexicans, aimed too high, did litle damage, but the grape from the
                    battery on the left was playing havoc; men were falling on all sides. General
                    Lane determined to get his men out of the range of this battery by pushing
                    farther down the ridge, hoping by this move to force General Pacheco back into
                    the ravine, and get his own men in better range of the Mexicans.
                    O'Brien limbered up and advanced sixty yards to the right and front,
                    where the battery again began the slaughter. By this time the Mexican musketry
                    fire and the raking fire of ball and grape from the battery on the left had
                    become so effective that the Second, instead of advancing, as Lane intended,
                    retired in some disorder from their position, in spite of his efforts and those
                    of a number of officers to stop them.28 In the midst of the
                    action, Colonel Bowles, over on the right side of the regiment had twice given
                    the order, "Cease firing, and retreat." The regiment slowly
                    began breaking at its right, company by company until soon it was mostly a mob
                    flying aimlessly to the rear. The busily engaged men on the left not having
                    heard the order of Bowles had not noticed that the right wing was retreating.
                    When they turned and saw that the whole right side was gone and the left
                    starting, several yelled, "Halt men, for God's sake
                    stop!" At this some hesitated but the retreat was general and 
                  
                     27 Carleton, Buena Vista, 68.
                  
                     28 Lane's Report National
                                Documents. 1847. p 182. For causes of this retreat and
                            consequences, see Chapter III.
               
                     the enemy, led by a large force of lancers,
                    was fast approaching. At last Lieutenant Stewart W. Cayce, then in command
                    remarked, "It's no use boys to stay here alone; let's
                    retreat." So the left wing followed the right, the balls raining around
                    them and the lancers at their heels.29
            
            Whatever the explanation of this retreat, nothing could have been more
                    unfortunate. Had General Lane's purpose been effectively carried out,
                    it is more than probable that General Pacheco's division would have
                    been cut up in time to allow the Americans to engage with fresh troops General
                    Lombardini, before he could have crossed the ravine and gained the plateau. If,
                    instead of retreating the regiment had pressed diligently forward, the success
                    of the day would have been more complete, and many lives would have been spared
                    which were afterwards sacrificed to regain the advantages lost by this untimely
                    retreat. Had Colonel Bowles advanced bravely, instead of bringing the charge of
                    cowardice upon his State, "his regiment would have executed one of the
                    most brilliant things executed on any battlefield."30 Santa Anna in his official report said that he had already passed an
                    order for his forces to retreat, when the enemy, after a most determined
                    resistance, was observed to give way in great confusion.
            Lieutenant O'Brien unsupported by any infantry after the retirement of
                    the Second, decided it was useless to remain alone and sacrifice his pieces
                    needlessly, so he gave the order to limber up and retired with two of his
                    pieces. The horses of the third were all killed or wounded, so it was
                        abandoned.31
            
            The riflemen in the mountain, who were about to be cut off, hastened down and
                    most of them ran to the hacienda, stopping in the corral. Of those who tried to
                    join their colors many were killed.32
            
            The Second never rallied as a full regiment. Colonel Jefferson Davis of the 
                        Mississippi
                     regiment called loudly to those fleeing to return and renew the
                    combat. Colonel Bowles who had given the order that began the retreat, now,
                    having lost all hope of rallying it again, seized a rifle and followed by a
                    handful of his men, joined the Mississippians as a private. 
                  
                     29 Scribner, Campaign in 
                                    Mexico
                                . Scribner was on the left wing of the Second
                            Regiment.
                  
                     30 General Wool to Colonel Bowles in presence of
                            General Lane, Colonel Curtis, and Major Washington. Seribner, 62.
                  
                     31 Lieutenant O'Brien's official
                            report. National Documents, 1846–7, p
                        160.
               
                     During the remainder of the day he showed
                    personal bravery in that regiment.33 Taylor said, that with
                    this exception, the regiment took no further part in the action.34 It was this statement that later got him into so much trouble in
                    Indiana. More than a "mere handful" finished the fight. While
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                     riflemen and the Third Indiana assisted by Lieutenant Kilburn were
                    engaged in front of the plateau with General Apulia, General Wool was doing all
                    in his power to rally the Indianians who had given way. General Lane, wounded
                    and bleeding was likewise trying to assemble the scattered fragments of the
                    regiment with which he had opened the battle. In this work they were ably
                    assisted by Inspector-General Churchill, by Major Munroe of the artillery, and
                    by Captain Steen of the First Dragoons, who fell severely wounded while on this
                    duty. None succeeded so well, however, as Major Dix of the pay department. After
                    riding in among them he seized the standard of the Second and asked the men
                    whether they were going to desert their colors. He told them that they had sworn
                    to protect them and now if they were still determined to do so they would have
                    to return with him to the fight. He swore, that, with God's help, he
                    would not see 
                  
                            
                        32 These men again got into the fight and did
                                good work. The following song of the Indiana Riflemen by John G.
                                Dunn, Assistant Surgeon U. S. A. commemorated their service; from 
                                    Madison
                                
                                Courier. May 1, 1847: Ferry 160. 
                                    Up, up the wild mountain— Up, up to the fight I
                                        Hark! the bugle of war Sounds far o'er the height.
                                        The foe is above us— In thousands they gorge The
                                        time-crumbled cliffs, Yet on they charge. Though few be our
                                        numbers, Our rifles so dread Shall people the mountain With
                                        wounded and dead. Ram, ram, the dread cartridge, Aim dead at
                                        the foe— The cheers of our brethren Resound from
                                        below. Fire! fire! how they tumble— Shout, shout
                                        for the State, Whose young bosom sent thee To war with the
                                        great I Let her arms shine unsullied, Her glory be
                                        bright— For she opened the battle, She ended the
                                        fight!
                                
                     
                        
                  
                     33 Carleton, Buena Vista 75.
                            Taylor's official report, National Documents,
                            1846–7, p 134.
                  
                     34 Official report of the Battle, National Documents, 134.
               
                     the state of Indiana disgraced by having
                    her flag carried out of battle until it could be carried out in triumph, and
                    that back again it would go, if he had to take it there and defend it alone.
                    This won over many of the men within hearing distance. It seemed to quell the
                    panic which had fallen upon them. Themselves again, they rallied, gave three
                    cheers for Indiana, and gathered round their flag. Captain Linnard, of the
                    topographical engineers, who had been active in assisting Major Dix in putting
                    the men in order as they came together, obtained a fife and drum and directed
                    the national quickstep to be played. Major Dix led off with the flag, while the
                    captain brought up the rear and they directed their steps toward Colonel
                    Davis's and Colonel Lane's (3d) regiments back in the
                        battle.35 All the rest continued the flight back to the
                    hacienda of Buena Vista and some even to 
                        Saltillo
                    .
            While all this was taking place to the left and rear, the battle was being hard
                    fought up to the front of the plateau. General Pacheco immediately followed up
                    the advantages he had achieved at heavy cost. His cavalry advanced from its
                    cover and pressed forward on the right of his infantry, while General Lombardini
                    succeeded at the same time in crossing the ravine and uniting with them.
            The 
                        Kentucky
                     cavalry, placed to the left of where the Second Indiana had been,
                    retired to join Colonel Gell on the other side of La Bosca. Only three
                    regiments, all seriously weakened by detachments left behind 
                        Saltillo
                     and on the mountain stood between the Mexicans and 
                        Washington
                    's battery at the pass. These were Bissell's
                    Second 
                        Illinois
                    , McKee's Second 
                        Kentucky
                    , and Hardin's First 
                        Illinois
                    . The Mexican general half wheeled his line to the left and it
                    seemed as if these regminets would have to go the same way as the Second
                    Indiana. But General Wool kept a cool head. As Bissell fell back Hard-in and
                    McKee advanced on the run to meet him. The three regiments formed in line with
                    Bragg's and Sherman's batteries.
            The enemy charged with a roar, but the line held and the struggle became one of
                    endurance. The Mexicans crossed La Bosca and pushed back the two regiments of 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                  
                     35 Carleton, Buena Vista,
                        82.
               
                    
                    
                        Arkansas
                     horse, under Colonels Marshall and Gell. Colonel Gell refused to
                    yield and died sword in hand.
            About eight o'clock General Taylor arrived on the field. He had been in 
                        Salitillo
                     providing against an attack on his provisions, and returned just in
                    time. To all appearances his army had lost the day. The American left was
                    turned, their cavalry beaten back and only one thin line intervened between
                    Lombardini's masses and the pass of Angostura. General Minon's
                    cavalry had got around to the rear and were between the Hacienda of Buena Vista
                    and 
                        Saltillo
                    .
            Undismayed, Taylor ordered Col. James H. Lane and the Third Indana, which had
                    been held in reserve, to join Colonel Davis and the remains of the Second
                    Indiana and crush Pacheco's flank. On the double-quick, about two
                    hundred of the Second Indiana (those rallied by Dix) under their
                    Lieutenant-Colonel William R. Haddon, met Davis, and without halting formed on
                    his left. After a long run the three regiments hit Pacheco's column
                    while it was engaged in front by Hardin, McKee and Bissell. The Mexicans were
                    soon "forced to retreat in the utmost disorder. The Indianians sent out
                    a detail to bring in the wounded from the ravines where they found the
                    "barbarians" cruelly butchering the wounded and stripping
                    their bodies.36
            
            About this time 
                        Saltillo
                     was attacked by the two thousand lancers under Minon but the attack
                    was repulsed. Simultaneously a charge was made by a large body of lancers on the
                    provision train at the ranch, and several companies of 
                        Arkansas
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     cavalry were forced to fall back. An extended line then rushed down
                    expecting to rob the wounded and sack the wagons. Checked by the fire from the
                    Indiana rifle battalion, the 
                        Arkansas
                     troops and First dragoons, they gave way, being pursued by
                    May's dragoons, and a part of Bragg's battery. The Mexicans
                    were driven along the foot of the mountain into a gorge where they joined a
                    force which the Mississippians, aided by the Second Indiana and a twelve pound
                    howitzer, had been engaging with great success. This part of the Mexican army
                    was now in a critical position. To the left was Colonel May and two guns. On the
                    right were three more pieces of Sherman's battery, the Indianians and
                        
                  
                     36 Scribner, Campaign in 
                                    Mexico
                                
                     , 68.
               
                     Mississippians. At this point, with a
                    brilliant victory over the 3,000 men in sight, the men received an order to
                    cease hostilities, as a flag of truce had arrived. They ceased firing and under
                    cover of the flag the extreme Mexican wing succeeded in joining the remainder of
                    the army.
            By two o'clock nearly all of the plateau was in the possession of the
                    Americans. The men took advantage of the quiet to rest, lying on their arms,
                    about their colors. But Santa Anna was marshalling his men for a final charge
                    which he was able to make with 12,000 men. Colonels Hardin and McKee were now
                    over to the southeast part of the plateau where the Second Indiana had been
                    early in the morning. Both their regiments were routed by this Mexican attack in
                    which Colonels Hardin, McKee and young Henry Clay were killed. The broken
                    regiments retreated down a ravine opening into the pass where they were
                    protected by Washington's breastworks and the battery. Their pursuers
                    were exposed to its fire and driven back with loss. The rest of the American
                    artillery took a position on the plateau, covered by the 
                        Mississippi
                     and Third Indiana regiments.
            Taylor ordered Bragg, Davis and Colonel Lane to recross La Bosca and fall upon
                    the flank of the enemy, who at once came charging down in all their splendor.
                    The Americans formed into a V, the Third Indiana on the right, the
                    Mississippians and Second Indiana forming the angle. While standing there
                    awaiting the approaching enemy Colonel Davis called out, "Hold your
                    fire men, until they get close then give it to them."37 The oncoming Mexicans made an imposing appearance with their long
                    columns, glittering lances and richly colored banners. A white-horse company,
                    wearing brass-mounted caps decorated in red plumes, galloped up with lines
                    accurately dressed. At twenty paces they received the deadly cross fire of the V
                    formation. Whole platoons seemed to drop. Every man took upon himself part of
                    the credit and for the first time the men of the Second felt something of the
                    glory and pomp of war.38 Some, intoxicated by success,
                    entirely overlooked the possibility of death. General Lane forgetful of his
                    wounded arm rode up and down the lines exclaiming, "We'll
                        
                  
                     37 Scribner, Campaign in 
                                    Mexico
                                
                     , 65.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid. 65.
               
                     whip them yet." It was a happy
                    time. In a few minutes the Second Indiana, with the Mississippians and the Third
                    Indiana were again facing the foe upon the ridge near the place where they were
                    stationed early in the morning. The Mexicans had a heavy battery there and as
                    the men ascended the brow of the hill they were warmly received, both by the
                    battery and by the Mexican reserve of six thousand men that had been pursuing
                    the 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     regiments. They paid them back with interest and then fell back
                    under the brow of the hill for protection and watched the shot strike in their
                    front and rear.
            Bragg's battery had come up in time to deliver the telling blow again
                    the Mexicans. Without any infantry support he had swept the Mexican column that
                    had driven back the 
                        Illinois
                     and Second 
                        Kentucky
                     regiments. At Taylor's command he put in more grape.
                    "The first discharge of cannister caused the enemy to hesitate; the
                    second and third drove them back in disorder, and saved the day."39 About sun-down the artillery ceased and the conflict was
                    over. By six o'clock next morning Santa Anna and all his unwounded
                    troops were back at Agua Nueva, fourteen miles to the south.
            The American losses at Buena Vista totalled seven hundred and forty six.40 The Second Indiana lost one hundred and seven and the
                    Third sixty-five. Captain T. B. Kinder of the Second was one of
                    Indiana's well known officers killed in the battle.41
            
            Buena Vista was the only battle in which the Indiana volunteers, of 1846, got to
                    participate. Quite naturally it attracted a great deal of attention in the
                    state. The controversy over the conduct of the Second regiment was long and
                    bitter. Buena Vista was fought over time and again in the newspapers of the
                    state, and Taylor's charge of cowardice against the Second was made the
                    paramount issue in the presidential campaign of 1848.
            The next morning after the battle, February 24, 1847, those of the Second who had
                    fought with the Mississippians joined their own regiment. Parties went out in
                    all directions and picked up the wounded and dead, the dead of each regiment
                    being buried side by side. A cross of staves was raised over 
                  
                     39 Taylor, official report. National
                                Documents. 1847–8, p 136.
                  
                     40 Taylor's report. National
                                Documents. 1846–7, p 140.
               
                     each grave, three salutes were fired and
                    the men left the field. Everybody was solemn and silent, and the joy of victory
                    was mixed with sorrow for companions and friends who never left the field.
            The following day scouts reported that Santa Anna's army was still at
                    Agua Nueva and would probably renew the struggle. The troops were ordered to
                    strike tents and return to the field of battle. Here they encamped greatly
                    inconvenienced by the lack of blankets, knapsacks and clothing. In constant
                    expectation of the long roll, the men slept lightly and had feverish dreams.
                    Some members of the Spencer Greys of 
                        New Albany
                     were crouching over the coals when General Lane came up and ordered
                    Colonel Bowles to have the long roll beaten as a messenger had just arrived with
                    the news that the picket had been fired upon. The camp was silent in slumber,
                    and the men could be seen stretched out in the moonlight and shadow. The rolling
                    of the drums spread from line to line. The white tent coverings flew up in the
                    air and the men came to their feet with every variety of expression on their
                    excited faces. After an hour they were permitted to lie down, but alarms
                    continued 
                  
                            
                        41 The following poem, by Mrs. Sarah T. Bolton.
                                on Kinder'a death appeared in the Indiana
                                    Stneinel.
                                
                                    Sing a dirge full of woe For the noble and gifted, For his
                                        head lieth low And his sword is unlifted. Sad requiems may
                                        swell O'er the land that he cherished; Storied
                                        marbles may tell Where the young hero perished. We may give
                                        him to fame, But we cannot restore him. Gallant soldier,
                                        farewell; True, thy country has proved thee, And thy memory
                                        will dwell In the warm hearts that love thee. They have made
                                        thee a grave In the field of thy glory; They have written
                                        thee brave, On the pages of story. And fair Freedom will
                                        come. Her sad tribute to render O'er the low,
                                        silent tomb Of her gallant defender. Thou dids't
                                        pass from our sight In the hours of life's morning,
                                        When thy pathway was bright With hope's brilliant
                                        adorning. In thy home, once so dear, There is weeping and
                                        wailing; But the sigh and the tear Are alike unavailing; For
                                        the conflict is o'er And life's ties are
                                        all riven, We will meet thee no more Till we meet thee in
                                        Heaven.
                                
                     
                        
               
                     all night. At last came the news that the
                    Mexican army had begun its retreat to San Luis Potosi, and the troops were
                    ordered to prepare to march to their former camp at Agua Neuva. The 26th was
                    spent covering the sixteen miles to Agua Neuva. The road was covered with
                    Mexican dead and the odor was sickening. Tents were pitched near the spot the
                    men had left the week before.
            March 10, the small army was ordered back to Buena Vista, as the water was very
                    bad and the wind and dust so disagreeable. Even the horses were affected and
                    died in great numbers.
            At the Buena Vista camp the Indiana volunteers became much agitated over the
                    statements that had been made concerning the retreat of the Second. They thot,
                    however, as it could be easily proved that it was ordered to retreat, the matter
                    would soon be settled.
            General Taylor, taking Colonel May's dragoons, Bragg's battery
                    of light artillery, and the 
                        Mississippi
                     regiment left the litle army for Walnut Springs, near Monterey. The
                    Second and Third Indiana Regiments were left under the command of General Wool,
                    a brave and skilled officer, and a good soldier, but a man who could not gain
                    the affections of the men as could "Old Rough and Ready," who,
                    since the battle, had been adored by the men.
            With time the camp at Buena Vista was made very comfortable. The health of all
                    was improving nicely. On the last day of April the whole division passed in
                    review before General Wool and staff. There were seven regiments of infantry,
                    two squadrons of dragoons and four batteries of flying artillery, altogether a
                    pleasing sight.
            The first two weeks of May saw much excitement in camp over the court of
                    investigation concerning the conduct of General Lane and Colonel Bowles in the
                    battle. Its purpose was to fix the blame, if possible, for the retreat of the
                    Second. General Lane called for an examination on his own account and was
                    acquitted with highest praise. Colonel Bowles, by request, followed his example
                    and the charges of incapacity for performing the duties of colonel, ignorance of
                    company and battalion drill, etc., were fully substantiated as well as the fact
                    of his having given the order "cease firing, and retreat."  The effect of this decision was immediately
                    felt thruout the camp. The minds of members of the Second were put at ease for
                    the time being. They thot that all doubts as to the propriety of their retreat
                    were settled, and that that unfortunate event, as far as all were concerned, was
                    disposed of forever. Little did they for see the publicity that it was to be
                    given during the next two years.
            On the evening of May 14 the Indiana regiments received the welcome news that
                    they were to take up their line of march for the mouth of the Rio Grande on the
                    24th. The 
                        New Albany
                     company received a request from home to bring back the bodies of
                    their four comrades who had fallen in battle. This they first thot impracticable
                    but later complied with the wishes of friends back home.
            According to schedule, the Second and Third regiments of Indiana volunteers left
                    camp Buena Vista for 
                        New Orleans
                    , May 24. Before leaving, the regiments were formed in line and
                    general orders number 295, issued the day before, were read: 
                        Headquarters, Buena Vista, May 23, 1847.
                        The departure of the Second and Third regiments to-morrow under orders
                            for 
                                New Orleans
                            , there to be discharged from their military engagements,
                            makes it necessary and proper for the General commanding at the time of
                            terminating the relations which have existed between himself and these
                            troops, to say a few words in relation to the subject connected with
                            their conduct in the battle of Buena Vista, in which the greater part
                            have done such good service. He feels that the moment of parting is not
                            the time to look with a severe eye on the misconduct of a portion of
                            those troops whose companions have merited and will receive the credit
                            which a grateful people always yield to brave men; and the recent legal
                            investigations caused him to regret that a fault of judgment in an
                            individual at a critical moment should have been the means of casting a
                            deeper shade than was deserved upon that portion of the Second regiment
                            which has been censured. He feels confident that time and justice, which
                            sooner or later regulate all the affairs of men, will single out and
                            discriminate the bad from the good and give to the latter, without
                            qualification, the credit which is due them.
                        The General regrets deeply that he is to lose the valuable services of
                            Brigadier-General Lane, whose integrity and zeal and close attention to
                            all the requisitions of the service have been so much aid to him in the
                            discharge of his duties and whose gallant conduct in the field has
                            gained for him the esteem and confidence of every one.
                        
                        In wishing him and his officers and men a safe journey home, the General
                            bids them adieu.
                        By command of Brigadier-General Wool.
                        IRVIN MCDOWELL. A.A.G.
                  
                    
            
            The First Indiana, during the Buena Vista campaign had been in camp at Walnut
                    Springs. Its desire to get into the war was never realized and now it left
                    Monterey for the states on the same day as the other Indiana regiments. On May
                    22 Taylor wrote to Colonel Drake and the First the following complimentary
                    letter in reply to a courteous farewell note of Colonel Drake: 
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Headquarters, Army of Occupation,
                              Camp near Monterey, 
                                    Mexico
                                 
                              
                           ,
                                        May 22, 1847.
                        Colonel J. P. Drake:
                        Dear Sir:
                        Your very acceptable letter of this morning was this moment
                                    handed me. For the approbatory terms in which you have been
                                    pleased to speak on your own, as Well as on the part of your
                                    regiment, of the existing relations between us, as well as the
                                    kind feelings which will be carried and cherished toward me on
                                    your return to civil life, when on the eve of separating and
                                    returning to your homes, in consequence of the expiration of
                                    your term of service with the government, has created feelings
                                    which are difficult to express, but which are highly gratifying
                                    as well as duly appreciated. I regret that it was not your good
                                    fortunte as well as your excellent regiment, to have
                                    participated in one, at least, of the hard fought battles which
                                    have taken place since our arrival in 
                                        Mexico
                                    , knowing as I do your and their great anxiety to
                                    have done so; in which case I am satisfied you would not only
                                    have acquired fame and honor for yourselves, but for your State
                                    and the country; but circumstances over which you had no control
                                    prevented it. All must know who are in the slightest degree
                                    acquainted with military operations in carrying on a war in an
                                    enemy's country, over long lines from the base of
                                    operations, which has been our case, that a considerable portion
                                    of the troops employed must be engaged in guarding depots,
                                    keeping open lines of communications, escorting trains, etc.,
                                    which duties are as important, arduous and dangerous as the
                                    duties of those who may be engaged in battle, each depending
                                    upon the other to insure success, therefore equally honorable to
                                    all concerned; and I can bear ample testimony to the zeal and
                                    ability with which the First regiment of Indiana Volunteers
                                    discharged most of the duties referred to, also many others, as
                                    well as the fortitude with which they bore up under disease so
                                    common and so much to be dreaded by citizen soldiers on their
                                    first entering the service, especially when suddenly transferred
                                    from a northern to a southern climate, more by far than the
                                    balls and bayonets of the enemy; also your great desire to begin
                                    the advance; all of which is the very best evidence had you come
                                    in collision  with the enemy
                                    you would have done your duty and the honor of our flag and our
                                    country been safe in your keeping.
                        Be assured, Colonel, you will carry with you my best wishes for a
                                    quick and safe journey to your homes, a happy meeting with your
                                    family and friends, as well as continued health and prosperity
                                    thru life. With considerations of great respect and esteem, I
                                    remain,
                        
                                    Truly and sincerely your obedient servant,
                                    Z. TAYLOR, Major-General U. S.
                                    Army.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            THE RETURN OF THE VOLUNTEERS
            The First, with a long baggage train, made its way towards Camargo and arrived
                    there on the 28th. The next day it proceeded to 
                        San Francisco
                    , on the Rio Grande. Two days later the regiment embarked on the
                    "Corvette" and "
                        Troy
                    ," and on June 5 boarded the schooners "Sarah
                    Jane" and "Desdemona" and the brig
                        "Fidelia".42
            
            The Second and Third, after a ten days march arrived at Reynose. From there they
                    took steamboats to the mouth of the river and boarded the vessels for 
                        New Orleans
                    .
            At 
                        New Orleans
                     the volunteers were well received by the citizens. Several public
                    dinners were given and salutes fired. Among the mass of patriotic citizens was a
                    liberal sprinkling of Jews and land-sharks, and they attacked the soldiers as
                    furiously as had the Mexicans a few weeks before. By act of congress the
                    soldiers were rewarded with script entitling them to western lands. It was these
                    land claims that the speculators were after. They told great tales of the
                    difficulty of procuring land warrants, as tho it were a very intricate and
                    delicate process. Yet these men were so patriotic, so benevolent and
                    accomodating that they were willing to pay as much as sixty-five dollars for
                    each claim of 160 acres of land and run the risk of figuring out the complicated
                    problem. General Lane had warned all not to sacrifice their claims to
                    speculators, for they could dispose of them on much better terms in their state.
                    In spite of this, many in need of ready cash, sold for thirty to sixty dollars,
                    claims easily worth two hundred.
            After they were mustered out at 
                        New Orleans
                     the men left for their homes. Most came back by way of the 
                        Mississippi
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     steamboats. 
                  Indianapolis, Madison
               , 
                        New Albany
                    , 
                  
                     42 Reed, Campaign in 
                                    Mexico
                                .
                  
               
                    
                    
                        Brookville
                    , and many other towns made preparations to receive in style their
                    worthy sons.
            The citizens of 
                        Indianapolis
                     held a meeting at the courthouse Wednesday evening, May 19, to
                    arrange for receiving the volunteers when they returned. A committee of seven
                    was appointed by Chairman W. W. Wick to prepare arrangements and report later.
                    The date of the return to 
                        Edinburg
                     was to be ascertained, teams were to be provided to bring the men
                    to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , festivities were to be planned and funds raised. One month later
                    the notice appeared in the Sentinel that three guns would
                    signal the arrival of the men in 
                        Edinburg
                    . At this signal the people were to assemble in front of 
                        Washington
                     Hall for further information. Thirteen more salutes were to be
                    given as the volunteers neared the city. In view of the uncertainty of the exact
                    time of arrival no public feasts were prepared but the citizens individually
                    were to entertain the volunteers during their stay in the city. At least eight
                    companies were expected thru 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Governor Whitcomb was to address the men. Ex-Governor Wallace was
                    appointed chief marshall.
            Wagon loads of volunteers passed thru 
                        Indianapolis
                     for several days. By July 6 nearly all of the Indiana soldiers had
                    returned. On Monday the 12th the funeral services of Captain Kinder, whose body
                    was brought all the way from the Rio Grande, were held.
            Sullivan county held the celebration on the 10th. The Honorable John W. Davis was
                    the orator of the day. A patriotic ode, composed for the occasion, was sung by
                    its author, Judge John S. Davis. It was estimated that five thousand people were
                    present; two thousand were women.
            A letter from 
                        Columbus
                    , June 12, reported that the volunteers had all returned and were
                    right side up. A grand dinner for the whole Third regiment, to be given by the
                    Hawpatch farmers, was planned for the following Saturday. Cass county received
                    her sons at 
                        Logansport
                    , July 5. An address was delivered by Dr. Graham Fitch, an elaborate
                    dinner was served by Captain Jordan Vigus and a reception ball given in the
                        evening.43
            
            The people of Lawrence county anxiously awaited the return 
                  
                     43
                            Indiama Journal, July 16, 1847.
               
                     of the volunteers. With the report of Buena
                    Vista had come the news that the Second had fled the field like frightened deer.
                    The details were not known. The relatives and friends denied it on general
                    principles, but later reports confirmed the first. Willis A. Gorman of 
                        Bloomington
                     reached home before the others of the Second and in a speech at 
                        Bedford
                     gave the first authentic account. He told how the men, after firing
                    twenty-one rounds had received orders to retreat. The facts satisfied the
                    citizens that the men of the Second were not cowards. The Lawrence county men
                    returned, June 30. The 
                        Bedford
                     brass band and a large body of citizens met them at White
                        river and escorted them to town. A barbecue was decided upon for
                    July 6 and on that date some 6,000 people assembled in Foote's woods,
                    north of town. The procession formed at the public square and then marched to
                    the grounds where a fat ox was roasted. The welcoming address was made by Dr.
                    Horace N. Benedict. Captain Henry Davis and Lieutenants L. Q. Hoggatt and D. S.
                    Lewis responded.
            The 
                        Washington county
                     boys were met at 
                        New Albany
                     and escorted home. The body of Thomas Barr was buried in 
                        Salem
                    . A barbecue and celebration was held near town.
            
               
                        Brookville
                     staged a parade on July 13 in honor of those who had been to 
                        Mexico
                    . Early in the day people began to flock in from the country and by
                    eleven o'clock the streets were crowded. A procession was formed at the
                    public square by Major Borrow, and marched to the grove near 
                        Butler
                    's Springs, about a mile from town, where the oration was
                    delivered by John M. Johnson, Esq. Colonel Jonathan McCarty responded. Toasts
                    were drunk, cannon saluted, and the band did its best. It was a proud day for 
                        Brookville
                     and 
                        Franklin county
                    .44
            
            The Spencer Greys of 
                        New Albany
                     reached home on July 31. A multitude of friends lined the shore.
                    Cannon roared and a flowery arch spanned the street. The Greys brought with them
                    the bodies of Robinson, Goff, Stevens, and Bailey, who fell at Buena Vista.
                    Their funeral was held on the 5th. Thousands witnessed the procession. The
                    sermon was preached by the Eev. Mr. Holliday, but only a few of the crowd were
                    able to get within hearing. As the procession moved to 
                  
                     44
                            Indiana Sentinel, July 21, 1847.
               
                     the northern graveyard, minute guns were
                    fired.
            At 
                        Madison
                    , the citizens crowded the wharf during the first two weeks of July,
                    daily expecting the arrival of friends in the Third. During that time all the
                    First and most of the Third passed thru the city. On the 14th the long expected
                    heroes arrived. The news had spread that a formal welcome and dinner were to be
                    given, and at an early hour the people from the surrounding country began
                    gathering into the city. The companies were drawn up on either side of the
                    stand, prayers were offered, and then General Milton Stapp made the welcoming
                    speech. Colonel James Lane responded for the men.
            Brigadier-General Joe Lane came in for his share of the honors. Many invitations
                    were sent him to take part in the festivities over the state. He declined
                    practically all. At 
                        Evansville
                    , July 3, a dinner was given, welcoming home Indiana's
                    general. The mayor gave the welcoming address and ended with the toast:
                    "Brigadier-General Joseph Lane, the farmer, statesman and soldier; a
                    worthy and valuable citizen; a brave and successful general and an honor to
                    every station in which fortune has placed him."
            Colonel Bowles returned with the Second to 
                        New Orleans
                    . The Indiana Journal of June 3 reported that
                    Bowles would remain in 
                        New Orleans
                     and start a drug store and suggested that that would be a wise
                    move. However, the commander of the Second arrived at 
                        New Albany
                     July 11 and stopped at the High Street hotel a day or two before
                    going to his home at Paoli. When next heard of he was preparing "as
                    fast as health would permit" a full and complete account of his own and
                    General Lane's conduct at Buena Vista. This account was to be submitted
                    to the public at an early date.45
            
            TWO NEW REGIMENTS
            Following the request from the war department of April 19, 1847, calling for
                    another regiment of volunteers from Indiana, came Governor Whitcomb's
                    proclamation of the 24th: 
                        
                     Whereas, By a communication from the Secretary of War,
                            dated the 19th of the present month, which has this day been received,
                            the undersigned is advised that the President of the 
                                United States
                             has directed 
                        
                           45 Prom Paoli Telegraph,
                                    in Indiana. Journal, August 2, 1847.
                     
                             that a volunteer force be accepted
                            for the war with 
                                Mexico
                            , in addition to that already in service; and,
                        
                     Whereas, The undersigned is, by the said communication,
                            requested to cause to be organized in this State ten companies of
                            infantry constituting one regiment, to serve during the war with 
                                Mexico
                             unless sooner discharged; the said troops to be clothed,
                            subsisted, organized, armed, equipped, officered, mustered, and
                            inspected into service in conformity with the rules and regulations
                            contained in the annexed General Order, as gathered from the aforesaid
                            communication, and as enjoyed by law; and,
                        
                     Whereas, The brilliant victories which have already
                            crowned the arms of the 
                                United States
                             during the present war are an earnest that its prompt and
                            energetic prosecution only is required to insure an early, a just and an
                            honorable peace,
                        
                     Now, Therefore, I, JAMES WHITCOMB, Governor of the State of Indiana, in behalf
                            of our common country, do hereby renew the invitation to the brave,
                            enterprising and patriotic citizens of our State to respond to this call
                            with all possible despatch by organizing themselves into volunteer
                            companies for the aforesaid service, and to report the fact of such
                            organization with the least practical delay to the Adjutant-General of
                            the State. And in conformity with the suggestion of the Secretary of War
                            that a place of rendezvous be appointed on the Ohio
                            river for the several companies as fas as they shall be
                            organized, the ground near or adjacent to "Old Fort
                            Clark", near 
                                Jeffersonville
                            , on the south, is hereby designated for that purpose.
                        In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of
                            the State to be hereunto affixed. Done at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , the 24th day of April, in the year of our Lord 1847, of
                            the State the thirtieth, and of the independence of the 
                                United States
                             the seventy first.
                        By the Governor,
                        JAMES WHITCOMB,
                        JOHN H. THOMPSON,
                        Secretary of State.
                    
            
            Accompaning the proclamation was general order number nine setting forth the
                    rules and regulations to be followed in organizing the new regiment. As the
                    company, only, had the right of electing officers no one need wait for special
                    orders to raise a company. The personal of the companies was to be the same as
                    for the first three regiments with the exception that they were to have two
                    second-lieutenants, making ninety-four members in all. The secretary of war
                    suggested that the officers of the additional force were of great importance and
                    that they be judiciously selected. The elections might be held as soon as the
                    company was full without waiting the ten days. The companies were to be
                    inspected and mustered in at Camp  Clark. To
                    each man who had provided himself with six months clothing, twenty one dollars,
                    or six months clothing allowance, was to be advanced. The men were to serve
                    during the war, and all who served, or received honorable discharge, were to
                    receive the bounty of 160 acres or treasury script for one hundred dollars. The
                    companies which had not succeeded in getting in Indiana's first three
                    regiments, if they still desired to enlist, were to be given preference over new
                    ones. General order number ten specified the soldiers' equipment, which
                    was to be practically the same as for the previous regiments.
            Six companies were reported as filled to the adjutant-general, May 9, in spite of
                    the busy season and demand for labor. Two days later, Captain Smith arrived in 
                        Madison
                     with one hundred and eight men, mostly from Lake county. They
                    appeared to be excellent military material.
            The 26th was suggested by Major H. Smith, as a proper time to begin receiving the
                    companies at the rendezvous. Captain Edward Landers left 
                        Indianapolis
                     for Camp Clark on that date. The company was made up of fine
                    healthy men. On the 8th this company had been presented a fine banner by General
                    Reynolds, on behalf of the ladies of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The 
                        Marion
                     Guards, John M. Wallace captain, left 
                        Marion
                     on the 24th. A procession more than a mile in length escorted them
                    from town about six miles. Farmers volunteered with teams and took them to 
                        Edinburgh
                    . All along the line they were patriotically cheered.
            
               
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and vicinity caught the war spirit and raised two companies. When
                    W. T. Baldridge had about filled his company, Ebenezer Dumont caught the fever
                    and organized another.
            May 30, the ten new companies were reported and accepted. Again a number of
                    companies almost ready to be reported were too late. The ten companies accepted
                    were: Captains J. M. Wallace, W. T. Baldridge, Edward Landers, J. W. Crook,
                    Jesse G. Alexander, William W. McCoy, Michael Fitzgibbon, Ebenezer Dumont,
                    Daniel Lunderman, and Landon Cochran.
            The election of regimental officers for the Fourth took place at Fort Clark, June
                    16. Willis A. Gorman of 
                        Monroe county
                     was elected colonel; Ebenezer Dumont of 
                        Dearborn
                    ,  lieutenant-colonel, and
                    William W. McCoy, of LaPorte county, major.46
            
            The regiment, under command of Colonel Gorman, left 
                        New Albany
                     about June 28, on the boats "Saladin",
                    "Ben Franklin No. 6", and "M. B. Hamer".
                    They arrived at 
                        New Orleans
                     without adventure and five companies sailed for Brazos, July 7. The
                    five remaining companies left on the 9th on the "Anna Chase"
                    and "Sophia Walker".47
            
            Near the mouth of the Sabine river one of the boilers of the
                    "Ann Chase" burst. No one was killed at once but two privates
                    died during the day from injuries received. After the explosion Colonel Gorman,
                    Captain Wallace and about forty men were landed in 
                        Louisiana
                    . They did not believe the boat able to go further and expected to
                    find their way to Galveston by some other means. They sent a messenger to
                    Galveston to announce the arrival at the Sabine of the troops who went ashore.
                    The schooner "Starr" was at once despatched thither with
                    provisions for their relief, and to take the men on to Galveston. In the
                    meantime the captain had patched up the damages and as the men on shore did not
                    return, steamed on to Galveston. He reached that port one day before the
                    messenger, the "Starr" picked up the men at Sabine and brought
                    them to Galveston where it and the "Lavina" were chartered to
                    carry them, together with those left, to Brazos.48
            
            The Galveston Civilian of July 21, in commenting upon the
                    departure of the Indiana troops, said that they had been a quiet and orderly
                    body of men when off duty and ventured that if they behaved as well in battle as
                    they did in the city, there would be no more reproaches cast upon Indiana
                        troops.49
            
            General Lane was assigned a new brigade which was made up of the First regiment
                    of infantry, one company of 
                        Illinois
                     cavalry, one regiment Indiana infantry, five companies of 
                        New Jersey
                     infantry, one company each of cavalry and foot from 
                        Florida
                     and five companies of 
                        Texas
                     horse.
            At the mouth of the Rio Grande the volunteers of the 
                  
                     46 For captains of the companies see report of
                            Adjutant-General Reynolds, December 1, 1847.
                  
                     47 From 
                                New Orleans
                            
                            Picayune, in Indiana Sentinel, July
                            24, 1847.
                  
                     48
                            
                                New Orleans
                            
                            Picayune, from Perry, Indiana in the
                                Mexican War. The "Tom Jack" was used to aid
                            these two boats as they could not carry all. 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Democrat, August 10, 1847.
                  
                     49 Quoted from the Galveston Civilian in 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Democrat. August 10, 1847. Perry, p 215.
               
                     Fourth changed boats to go up the river.
                    Colonel Gorman, with four companies started up stream on the "Big
                    Hatcher", July 25. Lieutenant-Colonel E. Dumont followed with two
                    companies on the "Colonel Hunt". The remaining four companies
                    were on the "Colonel McKee" at the mouth. All were bound for
                    the camp of instruction. But four men had been lost since leaving Indiana.
            On the last day of July Adjutant-General Reynolds wrote to secretary of war Marcy
                    asking information regarding the acceptance of additional companies from
                    Indiana. Captain Philip P. Barbour of 
                        New Harmony
                     thot that he could raise a company in a short time and wanted to
                    know if the same would be acceptable. The 
                        Cass County
                     volunteers, formerly of the First Indiana, desired to fill their
                    ranks and return to the service. Lieutenant Henry R. Scall of 
                        Monroe county
                    , who fought in Major Gorman's rifle battalion at Buena
                    Vista, wished to know whether a mounted rifle company, or one on foot would be
                    accepted and attached to the Fourth. Mr. F. P. Bradley of 
                        Daviess county
                     was anxious to raise a company to serve during the war, and desired
                    to know if it would be accepted, and if so, how they would be furnished with the
                    means of reaching the seat of war, and furnishing their own horses, what would
                    be the pay of the various officers and privates, and compensation for horses.
                    Mr. Allen Wilson of 
                         Putnam
                     wanted to know whether a light horse company would be received and
                    mustered into service for a term of one year from the 20th of September.
            To these requests Secretary Marcy replied, August 11, that the war was not deemed
                    to require, at the time, the additional forces offered from Indiana. Nor could
                    the war department, with propriety encourage the men to raise companies when
                    there was no certainty that they would be received.
            In August 1847, a young West Point graduate of Liberty, Indiana, received the
                    appointment of second-lieutenant in Company G, Second regiment artillery. His
                    name was Ambrose E. Burnside. This was the beginning of a military career which
                    culminated in the command of the army of the Potomac fifteen years later.
                    Lieutenant Burnside later became governor of 
                        Rhode Island
                     and 
                        United States
                     senator.
            
            Hardly two weeks after Secretary Marcy's letter stating that there was
                    no definite prospect for the acceptance of more troops from Indiana, the
                    President granted Colonel James H. Lane of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , permission to raise a volunteer regiment to be composed
                    principally of officers and men of the Indiana regiments which had previously
                    served in 
                        Mexico
                    . The governor was requested to aid in raising the regiment and to
                    designate a place of rendezvous.
            In his proclamation Governor Whitcomb invited the patriotic officers and men who
                    had formerly served against 
                        Mexico
                    , and such other citizens as would be necessary to complete their
                    numbers, to proceed and organize volunteer companies with all despatch, to serve
                    during the war.50 The general order number fourteen, for the
                    organization of the Fifth, set forth regulations identical to those issued for
                    the Fourth. As the authority to raise the regiment was given to Colonel Lane,
                    all companies had to be accepted by him before they could be considered a part
                    of the regiment. In case a company was completed with new recruits, and veterans
                    applied, the last enrolled of the new men would be dropped in favor of the
                    former soldiers. This rule was to hold until the company started its march to
                    the rendezvous. Colonel Lane said that he hoped to form a corps that would do
                    credit to the state and place Indiana where she deserved to stand, the first
                    among the first.
            The new regiment was not long in filling. September 23, nineteen days after the
                    governor's proclamation and the general order, the tenth and last
                    company was reported. The companies were:
                  K 1. 
                                Wayne
                             Guards—Captain D. W. Lewis, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            .
                  A 2. Indiana Guards—Captain Horace Hull, 
                                Madison
                            .
                  B 3. Rough and Ready Guards—Captain George Green, 
                                Jeffersonville
                            .
                  C 4. 
                                Covington
                             Guards—Captain R. M. Evans, 
                                Covington
                            .
                  I 5. 
                                Montgomery
                             Boys51—Captain Allen May, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            .
                  E 6. 
                                Shelbyville
                             Hards—Captain Samuel McKinzey, 
                                Shelbyville
                            .
               
                    
                  
                     50 August 31, 1847.
                  
                     51 Succeeded by M. D. Manson when May became
                            lieutenant-colonel of regiment.
               
                    
               
                  D 7. 
                                Hancock
                             Boys—Captain James R. Bracken, 
                                Greenfield
                            .
                  F 8. Center Guards—Captain John McDougall, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  G 9. Grabbers No. 2—Captain Aaron C. Gibbs, Law-renceburg.
                  H 10. 
                                Washington
                             Guards—Captain E. G. Carey, 
                                Marion
                            .
               
            
            Colonel Lane asked permission for the acceptance of two extra companies to act as
                    "flanking companies."
            The rendezvous for the Fifth was 
                        Madison
                    . The encampment, on beautiful ground just below the city, faced the 
                        Ohio
                    , with a parade ground between the tents and the river. It was named
                    Camp Reynolds in honor of the adjutant-general. October 1 was the date that the
                    companies were promised accommodations. The tents, utensils, etc., were all on
                    hand in time and the organization of the regiment proceeded smoothly. By the
                    19th all the companies were on hand and anxious to be off. Final arrangements
                    for 
                        Mexico
                     were to be made in Nachez. The election of officers took place on
                    the 22d. James H. Lane, who raised the regiment, was elected colonel, Captain
                    Allen May of 
                        Montgomery
                    , lieuenant-colonel, and John H. Myers, major.
            General orders from Major-General Butler directed the regiment to embark at 
                        Madison
                     on the 31st and to draw arms, accoutrements and equipment at 
                        Louisville
                    . On reaching 
                        New Orleans
                     the men were to be transferred to the gulf vessels, if possible,
                    without landing. If landing were necessary none of the men was to be permitted
                    to enter the city.
            The Fifth left Madisoh, November 1; companies E, D, and ‘F on the
                    "Ne Plus Ultra", companies A, B, and G on the
                    "Phoenix", and companies C, H, and I on the
                    "Wave". Captain Lewis's company, which did not arrive
                    full in time to leave with the regiment was left at 
                        Madison
                     until it could be gotten ready.
            The day before the regiment's departure Colonel Lane drew up his
                    regiment to receive its colors from Adjutant-General Reynolds. Colonel Lane made
                    a brief response to General Reynold's speech. The regiment passed 
                        New Orleans
                     about the 6th and arrived at 
                        Vera Cruz
                     two weeks later.
            
               
                  52 Perry, from 
                            New Albany
                        
                        Democrat, October 26, 1847.
            
            
            THE FOURTH AND FIFTH IN MEXICO
            On August 22, Brigadier-General Lane, known to his men as "Rough and
                    Ready No. 2", returned from General Taylor's headquarters with
                    orders to take his brigade and to proceed without delay to 
                        Vera Cruz
                    . Lane's brigade, consisting of the Fourth Indiana, an 
                        Ohio
                     regiment, a regiment of 
                        Illinois
                     volunteers and the 
                        Texas
                     Rangers, had been on the upper Rio Grande, near Meir. The Tenth and
                    Sixteenth 
                        United States
                     infantry together with General Taylor's command were left
                    to guard the Rio Grande district. When the Fourth reached the mouth of the river
                    there was some disturbance caused by a few who declared that they entered the
                    service for a year only. Before the men could receive their pay they had to sign
                    the muster roll which declared that they had volunteered for "during
                    the war." To this the men replied, "Go to hell with your
                        pay."53
            
            The Fourth, under General Lane reached 
                        Vera Cruz
                    , September 16. The men were agreeably surprised by the pleasant
                    three days trip and the beautiful mountain scenery around the city. The men
                    expected to leave in a couple of days for the city of 
                        Mexico
                    .
            Toward the latter part of September Lane's brigade passed National
                    Bridge, 
                        Mexico
                    . His entire force consisted of about 3,000 men. The only opposition
                    met was from guerrilla parties and ambuscades. October 12, General Lane
                    succeeded Colonel Childs in the command of 
                        Puebla
                    . He drove out the guerrillas, proclaimed martial law and
                    established order.54
            
            On the 9th a part of Lane's forces engaged the enemy under Santa Anna,
                    at the city of Huamantla. Colonel Gorman's regiment, the Fourth
                    Indiana, entered the west side of the city, and succeeded in routing the main
                    body of the enemy and then proceeded to disperse the groups still remaining in
                    the city. The colors of the regiment were placed on the arsenal.5 October 18, Lane's forces, including the Fourth Indiana,
                    engaged in a running fight with the Mexicans under General Rea. The cavalry
                    pursued the enemy to Atlixco, where they took refuge. Lane was afraid to risk a
                    street fight in a strange city so placed 
                  
                     53
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, October 2, from 
                                Louisville
                            
                            Courier, September 28, 1847. Perry p 228.
                  
                     54 Report of General Lane. National
                                Documents, 1846–7, p 476.
                  
                     55 Lane's report of October 18, 1847, National Documents, p 477–8.
               
                     his battery on a hill overlooking the place
                    and bombarded it. The Americans entered the city without trouble. A quantity of
                    arms and ammunition was found and destroyed. The Mexican loss was two hundred
                    and nineteen killed and three hundred wounded.56
            
            Colonel Willis A. Gorman wrote home, January 25, 1848.57 The
                    Fourth was still in 
                        Puebla
                    , in excellent health and spirits. General Lane was out around
                    Orizaba, Tehuacan, Cordova and vicinity chastizing the guerrillas. Colonel
                    Gorman was left in command of the forces in the city, which besides his own
                    regiment, included a regiment and five companies of 
                        Ohio
                     men, four companies of the Fourth artillery, and some 
                        Louisiana
                     and 
                        Florida
                     volunteers. The troops were well fed with the best that the country
                    afforded. Among the principal items of daily consumption were fresh and salt
                    beef, pork and mutton, flour, rice, corn meal and beans, sugar, coffee and
                    candles with plenty of soap, salt and vinegar. Quarters were established in
                    churches of roomy dimensions and splendid architectture.58
            
            From 
                        Vera Cruz
                     the Fifth started for the City of 
                        Mexico
                    . The march was a tiresome one, as only two halts were made, one of
                    four days at 
                        Jalapa
                     and a brief stop at 
                        Puebla
                    . Not counting the halts, the march took fourteen days, sometimes at
                    the rate of twenty-five miles per day over roads paved with stone. The Fifth
                    arrived at the Mexican capital, December 17, 1847.
            By January the health of the regiment had become affected by the confinement in
                    the city. The men hoped soon to go to their tents at Molino del Rey. By the
                    middle of the month there were from one to three funerals in the regiment every
                        day.59 The prevailing diseases were measles and
                    disentery, which, when combined, were usually fatal.
            By March the sickness in the Fifth had decreased. There were but fifteen or
                    sixteen on the sick list which had formerly numbered as high as one hundred and
                    thirty. Colonel Lane was paying quite a bit of attention to the details of
                    military 
                  
                     56 Lane's official report, National Documents p 481.
                  
                     57 Letter to Indiana Sentinel.
                            April 1, 1848.
                  
                     58 Letter from Alexander McClelland, February 20,
                            1848. In Indiana Sentinel. April 8, 1848.
                  
                     59 Letter from Captain R. Hull, City of 
                                Mexico
                            , January 4, 1848. In 
                                Madison
                            
                            Banner, March 1, 1848. Perry, p 271.
               
                     duty and the men had become very proficient
                    at all the intricate evolutions of drill, etc. The Fourth regiment had also
                    become very well disciplined and about as good as a regiment of the regular
                        army.60
            
            THE STATE HONORS THE VOLUNTEERS
            The legislature of 1848 took up the work of reforming the militia of the state,
                    rewarding the adjutant-general, honoring the returned veterans and solving the
                    various problems that had grown out of the war.
            In January a sword was voted to General Joseph Lane, as a token of the
                    state's appreciation of his services in 
                        Mexico
                    . February 10 resolutions were passed recommending the acceptance of
                    the flag of the 
                        New Albany
                     Spencer Greys, which had been adopted as the banner of the Second
                    Indiana. The presentation and accepting ceremonies were to take place in the
                    hall of the house of representatives on Saturday, February 12, in the presence
                    of both houses of legislature, the governor, judges of the supreme court and
                    officers of state. The thanks of the Assembly were presented to Captain
                    Sanderson of the Greys for the gift of the flag.
            The Assembly further resolved that the volunteers of the state who had responded
                    to the call for military service, had nobly ustained the honor of the state and
                    that the cloud which rested for a time upon the fame of the Second Indiana but
                    added to its honor by inviting a scrutiny into its conduct which showed it to
                    have been brave and dauntless in battle.61
            
            The presentation of the flags of the Second and Third regiments took place,
                    February 12. That of the Second was presented by Hon. John S. Davis with a brief
                    speech. Paris C. Dunning made the reply and accepted the flag in behalf of the
                    state of Indiana. The flag had been presented the Greys by the women of 
                        New Albany
                    . It came back from a year's campaign tattered and
                    bleached, but the pride of the regiment.
            The flag of the Third was presented by Captain Thomas L. Sullivan. It had been a
                    present of the women of 
                        Madison
                     to Sullivan's company and was adopted by Colonel Lane as
                    the standard of the regiment. No slurs had been cast upon the 
                  
                     60 A letter to General Reynolds by an officer,
                            City of 
                                Mexico
                            , March 2, 1848 in Indiana Sentinel, April
                            8, 1848.
                  
                     61
                            Documentary Journal, 1848.
               
                     conduct of the regiment and the Third
                    seldom missed a chance to flaunt this fact in the face of the Second. The banner
                    was accepted by Hon. W. A. Porter.
            In November 1847, Adjutant-General Reynolds wrote to Secretary of War Marcy,
                    inquiring whether the 
                        United States
                     government would defray the expenses he had incurred in organizing
                    the new troops. This work had taken several weeks of his time and
                    $125.00 of his own funds. Added to this was his office rent of
                    $43.33 and a fuel, light, and stationery bill of $28.75.
                    His salary was $100 leaving a personal outlay of $97.08.
                    Secretary Marcy replied that nothing could be allowed at that time as the
                    resolution of March 3, 1846 was meant to apply only to expenses, incurred prior
                    to its passage, but very likely there would be further actions taken on the
                    subject.
            Along about the same time the Indiana Journal made a strong
                    plea for General Reynolds. It stated that the Sentinel, the
                    Democratic organ in the capital, was not treating General Reynolds squarely. It
                    had purposely left unprinted the resolutions of the Fourth, expressing gratitude
                    for the services of Reynolds, until public opinion had made it necessary to
                    print them. The Journal assigned as the cause the fact that
                    General Reynolds no longer enjoyed the confidence of the Governor as he once
                    had: 
                        There was a time early in Governor Whitcomb's administration
                            when no important measure was adopted and carried out without the
                            approval of the best friend the people ever had. But since the Governor
                            and the Messrs. Bright have been absorbed in State bonds, dividends,
                            etc., Gen-General Reynolds is emphatically the peoples find. He esteems
                            his friends but he loves his country more. He is plain and
                            straight-forward in his course. He would not approve of any mysterious
                            juggling in the administration of public affairs. Should the war cease,
                            General Reynold's influence will again be felt in the
                            administration of the civil affairs of this State, and could he
                            consistently leave his post and fill the place of State Agent in place
                            of Mr. Bright, the public would be as well served and less painful
                            conjectures would be felt as to the manner in which the interest of the
                            State has been husbanded, and we conjecture that the Executive would
                            find himself safer in the councils of General Reynolds than in the
                            advice of his present favorites, the lately appointed Supreme Judges,
                            Dr. Smith and Mr. Perkins63
                  
                    
            
            The General Assembly of 1848 at last gave a tardy recognition 
                  
                     62 Report of Adjutant-General 1847, Documentary Journal, 1847.
                  
                     63
                            Indiana Journal, November 12, 1847.
               
                     to the services of the adjutant-general. By
                    an act approved, February 16, 1848, the $72.08 for fuel, etc., was
                    refunded to him, and the sum of $150 was allowed for extra services
                    in addition to his salary of $100.64
            
            The quartermaster-general was also paid $200 for the extra labor which
                    devolved upon him during the year of 1847.
            July 10, 1848, a number of boats with volunteers passed 
                        Louisville
                    . The men were on their way home to be discharged. On the
                    "Bulletin" came six companies of the Fourth Indiana. They
                    marched thru the city and left for 
                        Madison
                     on the "Swift-sure". At 
                        Madison
                     these men awaited the rest of the regiment and the Fifth. All were
                    in 
                        Madison
                     on the 20th and after being paid were mustered out of service.
            Wednesday, July 19, Captain Edward Lander's company of the Fourth,
                    raised in and around 
                        Indianapolis
                    , returned on the cars. The men were greeted by the citizens and
                    addressed by General Drake. Two days later Captain Cochran's company,
                    of Vigo, arrived, took dinner in a body at Little's Tavern as invited
                    guests, and left in the afternoon in thirteen wagons sent from home.
            Monday evening, July 24, the Democrats of 
                        Indianapolis
                     met at the courthouse. James Blake Esq. was called to the chair and
                    Nathaniel Bolton elected secretary. It was resolved that, as the Indiana
                    soldiers had returned, and it was desired to give them a hearty welcome,
                    Brevet-Major-General Joseph Lane be invited to visit 
                        Indianapolis
                     at his early convenience. As soon as he should fix upon a time, a
                    general invitation was to be issued to all the officers and soldiers in Indiana
                    who had taken part in the war, so that a public manifestation of gratitude might
                    be given them. Captain Landers was called upon and spoke eloquently to the
                    assembled crowd.65
            
            The Center Guards, Captain John McDougal; the 
                        Covington
                     Guards, Captain R. M. Evans; and the 
                        Washington
                     Guards, Captain David Shunk, of the Fifth regiment returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     Monday, July 31. Arrangements had been made to receive them. A
                    dinner was prepared at the hotel of Mr. Coats, and all were invited to dine
                    there. General Reynolds met the cars about four miles out and informed the men
                    of the plans made. At the station a military escort under Captain G. 
                  
                     64
                            Laws of Indiana. 1848.
                  
                     65 Indiana Sentinel, July 26,
                            1848.
               
                     A. Chapman, met the cars. But the men were
                    so anxious to see their friends that it was impossible to form them in line of
                    march. A number, however, took advantage of the dinner, at the close of which,
                    Governor Whitcomb made a short speech.
            Friday, August 11, Captain Landon Cochran's company of the Fourth and
                    Company C, Captain John Osborn, of the Second, together with a number of other
                    volunteers, attended a barbecue on the line of 
                        Clay
                     and Vigo counties. About three thousand citizens attended the
                    jollification. The ex-soldiers were welcomed by Stephen C. Dodge.6
            
            About the middle of September the people of 
                        Indianapolis
                     began making plans for a big free barbecue to be held early in
                    October. One of the members of the general committee announced that the
                    Democratic ladies of the city would be ready, October 4, with fifteen hundred
                    pies for the occasion.
            Wednesday, October 5, eight to ten thousand Indianians assembled at the capital
                    to honor the men who had been in the war against 
                        Mexico
                    . A long procession marched to the Palmer House. There several
                    hundred volunteers formed into line and all marched to the grove. Speeches were
                    made by Hon. Edward Hannegan, Lieut. Col. Allen May and Thomas J. Henley. After
                    dinner Col. James H. Lane, who had been delayed on the road, spoke on the record
                    of Indiana's sons in the war.
            In August came the news of the appointment of General Joseph Lane as governor of
                    the territory of 
                        Oregon
                    . By this appointment Indiana lost one of her most popular citizens.
                    Many were hoping that he would decline the honor conferred upon him by the
                    President. But General Lane accepted and the rest of his long life was spent on
                    the Pacific coast.
            Joseph Lane entered Indiana as a boy of fifteen, coming to Darlington, 
                        Warrick county
                    . He worked in the clerk's office and a dry goods store
                    until 1821 when at the age of twenty he got married. He then settled on a farm
                    just across in Vander-burg. The following year, before he was twenty one he was
                    elected to the Indiana legislature and had to wait until he was of age to take
                    his seat. From that time until the Mexican war he sat almost continually in one
                    or another of the branches of the state legislature. The war began while he was
                    serving in the senate, but he volunteered and as a private came to New 
                  
                     66 Indiana Sentinel, August 30, 1848.
               
                    
                    
                        Albany
                     in Captain Walker's company of the Second. When the
                    election of field officers of that regiment took place Lane was elected colonel.
                    July 1, he received his commission of brigadier-general and took command of the
                    Indiana troops.
            General Lane's record in command of this brigade, and of the new one
                    given him in June 1847, was an honorable one. He was a favorite of the
                    volunteers and familiarly known as "Old Rough and Ready No.
                    2". As a general, Lane was one of the most energetic, pushing,
                    indomitable men in the war. No danger or labor was too great for him. It was
                    commonly said that he had one great fault; he never slept, himself, and seemed
                    to forget that it was necessary for others to do so. On the march he dispensed
                    with drums and used the crowing of the cock as his reveille.
            On his second campaign Lane's moves against the guerillas were so sudden
                    and effective that he became known as the "
                        Marion
                     of the Mexican War". That title stuck to him until he left
                    the state.
            (To be continued.)
         
         
         
            Memoir of Colonel Isaac White of 
                        Knox County
                    , Indiana
            GEORGE FAUNTLEROY WHITE, grandson of Col. Isaac White
            The subject of this sketch, Isaac White, was born in Prince William county, 
                        Virginia
                    , shortly after the beginning of the Revolutionary war. The exact
                    year of his birth is not now positively known, but from the record of his
                    initiation, in 1811, as a member of Masonic Lodge, No. 1, of 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana, in which his age is stated to be 35 years, and from
                    certain interesting family notes written by Mrs. Sarah M. Hayden, which are as
                    yet unpublished, it is altogether likely that he was born in the year 1776. His
                    father, who probably was of English origin, was a man of education and good
                    family, and prior to his settling in 
                        Virginia
                     had held a captain's commission in the British merchant
                    marine service. Surrendering this office, he purchased a large tract of land in
                    Prince William county, and successfully devoted himself to farming until the war
                    of the Revolution began, when, taking up arms against the tyranny of the British
                    government, he lost his life near the end of the war nobly fighting for the
                    independence of his adopted country. The old house where this patriot
                    lived—a substantial, roomy, stone structure, indicating in all its
                    arrangements that it was the home of a cultured and hospitable
                    gentleman—is still standing, in an excellent state of preservation,
                    near Brentsville, the county seat of Prince William county. In this house Isaac
                    White was born, as was his elder brother, Thomas, and one younger sister, Katie,
                    and here he continued to live with his mother, assisting her, as he grew in age
                    and experience, in the management of the estate, until he had nearly reached his
                    twenty-fourth year, when an unhappy event in his mother's life impelled
                    him and his brother to seek a new and more adventurous career in the great
                    Northwest territory. It seems that on an occasion when the two sons and all the
                    male servants of the plantation were absent from home, a strange man called at
                    the house and asked for something to eat, a request which, in accordance with
                    the hospitality of those  days, was at once
                    complied with; but not satisfied with this kind of treatment, and seeing only
                    women about, he demanded the keys of the drawers where the family treasure was
                    kept, and on being refused them by Mrs. White, he endeavored by ruffianly
                    violence to take them from her person. Her screams attracted the attention of a
                    neighbor—a bachelor gentleman—who being out on a hunting
                    expedition, and fortunately passing at the time, rushed in and brained the
                    would-be robber on the spot. The gratitude of Mrs. White to her gallant rescuer
                    (who after judicial inquiry was not only exonerated from all blame but extolled
                    for his bravery), and no doubt the appreciation of the gentleman, who was in
                    rather needy circumstances, for Mrs. White's comfortable home and broad
                    acres, brought about in little time a marriage, which, while it may have given
                    happiness to the contracting parties, gave eminent displeasure to the two sons;
                    so much so that they remained with their mother only long enough to see their
                    sister happily and eligibly married, when, without any great superfluity of
                    money, they bade adieu to the old homestead, and made their way to 
                        Vincennes
                    , soon afterwards to be the seat of government of Indiana territory.
                    This was in the beginning of 1800.
            Naturally the advent of an enterprising man—handsome, brave,
                    well-bred, and full of spirit, such as young White was at this
                    time—was calculated to create some little excitement in any village
                    of a sparsely settled country; and so it did at 
                        Vincennes
                    . He won his way at once to the hearts of everybody whose goodwill
                    was worth having. Not only was he welcomed by the elders of the village, but he
                    was a special favorite with the young ladies. In Mrs. Hayden's
                    unpublished notes, before referred to, the following statement occurs regarding
                    the family of Judge George Leech, then living at 
                        Vincennes
                    , and particularly of his eldest daughter, Sallie, who soon became
                    young White's wife. Mrs. Hayden's statement is substantially a
                    repetition of the artless recital of her mother, formerly Miss Amy Leech, a
                    sister of Sallie, and the wife of Hon. John Marshall, for many years the
                    president of the Bank of 
                        Illinois
                     at 
                        Shawneetown
                    : 
                        Their eldest daughter, Sallie, Mrs. Hayden says, was now approaching a
                            marriageable age, and her beauty and loveliness of manner attracted the
                            attention and won the affections of a young Virginian, who had recently
                            moved to their vicinity, Mr. Isaac White. Like the natives of his  state, he had a courtly,
                            aristocratic bearing, which some of the country people, in their
                            inaccurate dialect, called pompous. He was quite a beau, and considered
                            the best prize in the matrimonial field at that time. But while he rode
                            with, and visited, and went to the simple merry-makings of the day with
                            — and other gay and dashing girls, it was not from among them
                            that he cared to select a wife. He required in the one who should be the
                            companion of a life-time the tender graces of a truer womanhood. Many
                            were surprised that this modest unassuming girl should have won the love
                            of so gallant a young man, or that, with his aspirations, he should have
                            been willing to marry a poor girl. It was a source of gratification to
                            the parents that their sweet wild-wood blossom had made so excellent a
                            match, and they accordingly set to work to do the best they possibly
                            could in the momentous affair.
                    
            
            Mrs. Hayden says further: 
                        A wedding-dinner was prepared, to which most all the people of the
                            surrounding country were invited; but mother smilingly added, when
                            narrating this (alluding to the smallness of the population), that the
                            guests were not very numerous after all. I do not know who officiated,
                            but presume Judge Luke Decker, because when my mother was married, a few
                            years later, grandfather wished to have him perform the ceremony; but
                            she refused, preferring her own father, who was then a judge of
                        probate.
                    
            
            The gentleman, Judge George Leech, into whose family Isaac White thus entered,
                    had emigrated to 
                        Vincennes
                     from 
                  Louisville,
                            Kentucky
               , with his
                    brother Francis and other relatives and friends, in the year 1784, and they had
                    all selected homesteads in 
                        Knox county
                    ; but after a three-years' sojourn, and owing to Indian
                    depredations and barbarities (Judge Leech having his house burned over his head
                    by them), and all, with the exception of Francis Leech, who had died, moved back
                    to 
                        Louisville
                    . Nine years later, in 1796, Judge Leech again emigrated to 
                        Vincennes
                    ; but the governor of the Northwest territory refused him permission
                    to reoccupy the land on which he had formerly lived, although it was still
                    vacant, and he was therefore compelled to occupy the land which had belonged to
                    his brother. Afterwards, when Gen. William Henry Harrison was appointed governor
                    of Indiana territory, Judge Leech was granted 100 acres more, and this tract,
                    which he gave as a marriage present to his daughter, and which is now a part of
                    what is known as the White-Hall farm in 
                        Knox county
                    , was the nucleus of a very considerable estate, which Colonel White
                    acquired after his marriage.
            Like all pioneers in a new country, Isaac White and his wife  had plenty of hardships to encounter; but they had
                    also the sympathy and friendship of their neighbors—characteristics
                    that are so often met among people who have left the comforts of civilization to
                    brave the privations of new life in the forest or on the prairie. An
                    illustration of the friendly help which the settlers in a new country are so
                    ready to give one another when necessary is shown in the fact that on one
                    occasion when the home of the Whites was burned to the ground, their friends and
                    neighbors from all parts of the county, with one accord "pitched
                    in," to use the vernacular of the west, and in a few weeks reared them
                    a larger, more substantial, and altogether more comfortable home (of hewn logs,
                    be it understood) than the one that had been burned. In this house the eldest
                    child of the young couple, George W. L. White, was born; here they bravely
                    struggled year after year for the advancement of their earthly interests, not
                    forgetting their spiritual ones; and here they enjoyed that happiness which,
                    whether in the log-house or in the palace, can come only from love and the
                    exercise of virtue and industry. They were reckoned among the best people of the
                    territory, and their friendliness of character, charity, and public spirit were
                    conspicuous traits. Among others, they became friends of Governor Harrison and
                    his family, and the friendship thus begun was transmitted to their children.
            A striking evidence of this friendship of the governor is shown in his
                    appointment of Mr. White as agent of the 
                        United States
                     at the salt works on Saline creek, in 
                        Illinois
                    , contiguous to the present village of Equality, in 
                        Gallatin
                     county. The following is a copy of this appointment: 
                        INDIANA TERRITORY.
                        WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON, Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Indiana
                            Territory,
                        (Seal.) To all who shall see these presents, Greeting:
                        Know ye, that in pursuance of instructions from the President of the 
                                United States
                            , I have constituted and appointed, and do by these presents
                            constitute and appoint, Isaac White, of 
                                Knox county
                            , to be agent for the 
                                United States
                            , to reside at the Salt Works on Saline Creek, for the
                            purpose of receiving and selling the salt, and to perform such other
                            acts and things as the government of the 
                                United States
                             may think proper to charge him with. This commission to
                            continue during pleasure.
                        Given under my hand and the seal of the territory, at 
                                Vincennes
                            , this  30th day of
                            April, 1805, and of the Independence of the 
                                United States
                             the twenty-ninth.
                        WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON.
                        By the Governor:
                        JNO. GIBSON, Secretary.
                    
            
            Among the persons employed by Isaac White, in his capacity of government agent of
                    these salt works, was John Marshall, a man of the most sterling character, and
                    who afterwards, as a banker, acquired a great reputation both in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . In the following year their connection became closer
                    still—Marshall having married Mrs. White's younger sister,
                    Amy Leech. The following reference to this interesting event occurs in Mrs.
                    Hayden's notes before mentioned: 
                        The marriage occurred on the 21st of October, 1806, and accompanied by
                            Colonel White and her sister (Mrs. White), they—that is,
                            young Marshall and his bride—set out next day for the salt
                            works, where their home was to be for the present—he
                            (Marshall) being employed as book-keeper by Colonel White.
                    
            
            Mrs. Hayden has unconsciously fallen into a slight anachronism in referring here
                    to Isaac White as "colonel". He had not as yet reached that
                    honor, but he had, a little more than a month before, been appointed a captain
                    of the 
                        Knox county
                     militia, as the following copy of his commission will show: 
                        WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON, Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Indiana
                            Territory, to ISAAC WHITE, Esq.,
                            of the County of 
                                Knox
                            , Greeting:
                        Reposing special trust and confidence in your fidelity, courage, and good
                            conduct, I have appointed you a captain of a company in the —
                            battalion of the — regiment of the militia of the County of 
                                Knox
                            , and you are hereby appointed accordingly. You are,
                            therefore, carefully and diligently to discharge the duties of a
                            captain, in leading, ordering and exercising the said company in arms,
                            both inferior officers and soldiers, and to keep them in good order and
                            discipline; and they are hereby commanded to obey you as their captain,
                            and you, yourself, to observe and follow such orders and instructions as
                            you shall from time to time receive from me or your superior officers.
                        In testimony whereof I have hereunto caused the seal of the territory to
                            be affixed the eighth day of September, in the year of our Lord one
                            thousand eight hundred and six, and of the Independence of the 
                                United States
                             of America the thirty-first.
                        (Territorial Seal.) WILLM. HENRY
                                HARRISON.
                        By the Governor's command:
                        JNO. GIBSON, Secretary.
                        
                        (Endorsement): Wm. H. Harrison to Isaac White. Commission in militia.
                            Captain.
                        On the 10th day of September, 1806, personally came before me the
                            within-named Isaac White, and had administered unto him the oath to
                            support the Constitution of the U. S.
                        WILLM. H. HARRISON.
                        ISAAC WHITE, Esq. Captain. Militia. 
                                Knox County
                            .
                    
            
            How long the salt-works agency lasted cannot be stated; it is presumed not very
                    long, however, for, from the papers now in the hands of Colonel White's
                    descendants, it would seem probable that, under a statute of the 
                        United States
                     then in existence—the act of congress of March 3,
                    1803—which authorized the leasing of salt springs belonging to the
                    govern, ment, Colonel White had in 1807 acquired a private interest in the salt
                    works, which he held until shortly before his death, finally disposing of it,
                    with other business interests, to Wilkes, Taylor & Co., and returning to 
                        Vincennes
                    . As lessee of the springs, he acquired considerable wealth, the
                    manufacture of salt being quite lucrative, and the celebrated Kanawha salt
                    springs in 
                        Virginia
                     not being then discovered, so that the 
                        Illinois
                     works supplied the whole territory.
            While residing at these salt works Colonel White had two daughters born to
                    him—Harriet Grandison, on June 12, 1808, and Juliet Grenville, on
                    July 30, 1810. While there, also, he was appointed a colonel, probably in the
                    militia of 
                        Illinois
                     territory, which was organized under the act of congress of
                    February 3, 1809. The commission of Colonel White is unfortunately lost, but the
                    evidence of his having received it is conclusive, and, indeed, undisputed.
            An incident occurred some time after his appointment as colonel which shows at
                    once the tenderness of the love he bore to his family and his coolness and
                    courage. It seems that, unlike most Virginians of that age, he was morally
                    opposed to duelling; but, like most men of the present day, he felt that
                    occasions may arise when that mode of settling grievances is alone possible.
                    Such an occasion actually arose in his life, and the preparations he made to
                    meet it are partly told in the following letter to his wife, written a day or
                    two after a brief visit to his family, who were then at 
                        Vincennes
                    : 
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                    United States
                                  Saline,
                           
                                    May 23, 1811.
                        Dear and Loving Wife:
                        I got home this day about ten o'clock, after  a great deal of fatigue and danger
                                    with the high water. I had liked to have strangled in the North
                                    Forke.
                        When you receive this I expect I shall be mingled with the dust.
                                    The day after to-morrow I am to fight a duel with Captain
                                    Butler. He gave the first insult, and on my retorting he
                                    challenged me. I accepted it. We are to fight at six feet
                                    distance, and I expect we both will fall. But death to me has
                                    not the terrors that it is represented to have.
                        I am very anxious for the welfare of you and my dear children. O,
                                    did you but know the pangs I felt at parting with you and them.
                                    When my poor little son cried, I had hard work to smother my
                                    grief. You, I have no doubt, will be tender and kind to them;
                                    try and keep me in their remembrance. I have left you the
                                    negroes, and have tried to induce John Justice to stay with you
                                    until he is of age. You will have to sell Sukey and the
                                    children. Bob will stay with you his life-time. With the money
                                    you get for Sukey and children you can buy you one that is held
                                    in slavery in the Territory. I think that you had better have
                                    the house finished and live to yourself. I shall leave
                                    everything in the care of your brother Francis, who, I have no
                                    doubt, will act with tenderness and care towards you.
                        My sword, epaulettes, and watch and dirk I want left to George.
                                    In making my will I was actuated by the best of motives, and if
                                    I have not left you as much as you think I ought to have left
                                    you, you will forgive me when you reflect that what has not been
                                    left to you I leave to your children, with a small exception. I
                                    repeat, again, ∗
                                    ∗ I cannot say more on the
                                    subject. So farewell, my dearest, forever!
                        
                                    I am yours,
                                    ISAAC WHITE.
                                
                        To SALLY WHITE. Kiss
                                    George, Harriet and Juliet a thousand times for me.
                     
                  
               
                
            The meeting which Colonel White speaks of in the above letter actually took
                    place, according to agreement between the parties, at a place now called Union
                    Springs, in 
                        Kentucky
                    , opposite 
                        Shawneetown
                    ; but the result of it was rather different from what he expected.
                    Both parties were on time; but when the seconds finally announced that the
                    weapons selected were horse-pistols and the distance six feet, the challenging
                    party protested that such an arrangement was murderous, and gave no chance for
                    life on either side. Colonel White's friends and himself, however, were
                    determined, and insisted on the arrangement, when the challenger left the field,
                    whole in body, and no doubt less inclined to offer challenges thereafter.
            It will be noticed in the letter of Colonel White, and also in his will, which is
                    hereto appended, that he speaks of his slaves, and advises his wife to purchase
                    others—a circumstance that at first blush appears a little singular,
                    in view of the fact that, by the celebrated Ordinance of 1787, slavery or
                    involuntary  servitude, except as a
                    punishment for crime, was forever prohibited in the Northwest territory, or in
                    any territories or states to be formed out of it. It is an historical fact,
                    however, that notwithstanding this great law, which is an enduring monument to
                    the wisdom and humanity of the legislative body that enacted it, slavery
                    continued to exist in the Northwest territory, and especially in Indiana, for
                    many years. Indeed, we find from Dillon's History of
                        Indiana that the first legislative convention called by Governor
                    Harrison in 1802 was mainly for the purpose of petitioning congress to revoke
                    the Ordinance of 1787 so far as it related to slavery—a petition
                    which no doubt was fully approved of by the governor, but which, after an able
                    report from the illustrious John Randolph, of 
                        Virginia
                    , against it, was emphatically denied. Even when it became
                    impossible, as it did afterwards, to enforce slavery in Indiana, many negroes
                    were held under indenture for long terms of years, which practically amounted to
                    slavery, and many, from mere habit, or by their own consent, continued
                    substantially in that condition. One of these latter cases Colonel White refers
                    to in his letter.
            Shortly after Colonel White's sale of his interest in the 
                        Illinois
                     salt works and his return to 
                        Vincennes
                    , he had been initiated and passed as an apprentice and fellow-craft
                    mason in the Masonic lodge at 
                        Vincennes
                    , then under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of 
                        Kentucky
                    , and on the 18th of September, 1811, he was raised to the degree of
                    a Master Mason by his friend, the celebrated Colonel Jo. Daviess, Grand Master
                    of 
                        Kentucky
                    , who had come to 
                        Vincennes
                     to offer his services to General Harrison in an expected campaign
                    against the confederation of Indians which Tecumseh and his brother, the
                    Prophet, were industriously endeavoring to form as a means of preventing the
                    further advance of white settlements. The troubles arising out of the
                    machinations of these two chiefs had then reached a point when active measures
                    by the territorial authorities became imperative, and Harrison, determining that
                    an invasion of the Indian country was necessary, was busy with his preparations
                    therefor. In the force that was to be raised for this expedition, Colonel White
                    had earnestly requested to have his regiment included, or at least as much of it
                    as could be readily made availiable; but General Harrison,  feeling that, with the regular troops he had
                    ordered to 
                        Vincennes
                    , enough militia was already on hand to serve his purposes, and
                    indeed not being certain that any severe fighting would be necessary, felt
                    compelled to decline the request. Colonel White was not the man, however, to
                    give up, for this reason, his determination to take part in the expedition. With
                    the consent of his friend Colonel Daviess, he enrolled himself as a private in
                    the battalion of dragoons which Harrison had placed under that
                    officer's command, and when the expedition started, on the 26th of
                    September—eight days after he had been made a Master
                    Mason—White accompanied it.
            An affecting incident in connection with the enlistment of Colonel White was an
                    exchange of swords between him and Colonel Daviess—an exchange to
                    which fate gave an awful solemnity when, afterwards, on the field of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , the weapon of White was found buckled to the belt of 
                        Daviess
                    , and the sword of 
                        Daviess
                     was held in the iron grip of his friend.
            It will be remembered that the expedition of General Harrison, which culminated
                    in the victory of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , left 
                        Vincennes
                     on the 26th of September, 1811, and that on the afternoon of the
                    6th of November following, the little army encamped on the banks of
                    Burnet's creek, seven miles north of the present city of 
                        Lafayette
                    , and a short distance from the Prophet's town, where a
                    large body of Indians were supposed to be on the war-path. The battle began
                    early on the morning of the 7th by a sudden attack of the Indians on that
                    portion of the camp where 
                        Daviess
                     and his battalion were stationed. Part of the fire of the Indians,
                    proceeding from a clump of trees some distance in front, was so deadly that 
                        Daviess
                     was ordered to dislodge them, which, at the head of a detachment of
                    twenty picked men from his force, he at once proceeded gallantly to do; but,
                    unhappily, his ardor was too great, and the little force with him, which
                    included Colonel White, was driven back, 
                        Daviess
                     and his friend both being mortally wounded. They died upon the
                    battle-field and were buried side by side—the temporary inequality of
                    rank, of which the noble nature of both men had hardly suffered them to be
                    conscious, being thus forever removed.
            At a public installation of the officers of a Masonic lodge at 
                        Evansville
                     many years ago, Hon. John Law, in a closing  address to the lodge, made the following reference
                    to the death of these two brave men, which, though inaccurate in its statement
                    that 
                        Daviess
                     came to 
                        Vincennes
                     in command of a corps of mounted 
                        Kentucky
                     rangers, and that Colonel White commanded a regiment at the battle
                    of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , is sufficiently interesting to quote in this place: 
                        On the 18th day of September, 1811, Judge Law said, Joseph H. Daviess,
                            grand master of the grand lodge of 
                                Kentucky
                            , came to 
                                Vincennes
                            , commanding a corps of mounted rangers, then on their route
                            to the battlefield of 
                                Tippecanoe
                            , where the battle was fought with the Indians in November
                            of the same year, and where 
                                Daviess
                             was killed while making a brilliant and unsuccessful charge
                            on his savage foes. His remains now rest, where they properly should, on
                            the Woody field where he fought so bravely, and where, after the battle,
                            I saw them nearly half a century since, deposited under a majestic oak
                            of the forest near where he fell, on the soil of Indiana, fattened with
                            the best blood of our people, and mingled with that of our friends and
                            neighbors from the south side of the 
                                Ohio
                            , who came to our assistance, and to whom we owe a debt of
                            gratitude which should never be forgotten to the latest generation. The
                            county of 
                                Daviess
                             was named after him. While at 
                                Vincennes
                             with his regiment he acted as master of the lodge there,
                            and conferred the degree of Master Mason on Col. Isaac White, the
                            grandfather of our esteemed friend, Isaac White, now a citizen of 
                                Evansville
                            , and named after him. Colonel White also commanded a
                            regiment from 
                                Knox county
                            , and fell on the same field. It is a singular fact that
                            these noble men, the master and neophyte—he who gave the
                            masonic degree of master mason, and he who received it—in
                            less than two months after, fell on the same battlefield, killed by the
                            same foe, and were buried side by side, with their martial cloaks around
                            them. Two more noble men or braver soldiers, or true and faithful
                            brethern of the order, never sacrificed their lives in the defence of
                            their country. May we not hope and believe that both these true and
                            loyal brothers have been transferred from earth to haven?
                    
            
            Lieutenant George Leech, the brother-in-law of Colonel White, and who was a
                    participant in the battle, is also authority for the statement that 
                        Daviess
                     and White were buried side by side, under an oak tree which he had
                    marked, but which an inability to revist the battle-ground had afterwards
                    prevented him from permanently identifying.
            Colonel White was in the 36th year of his age when he died. He was widely known,
                    and universally beloved. Liberal and charitable—not the least bit
                    penurious or avaricious—he yet amassed a considerable fortune for
                    that day, his lands amounting to several thousand acres, and his personal
                    property being not insignificant. His character was without reproach  —treachery and cowardice, deceit, and
                    all forms of meanness, being hateful to him. A loving husband and father, a kind
                    and steadfast friend, a good and enterprising citizen, and a patriotic and
                    gallant soldier—he, like hundreds of others of the pioneers of
                    Indiana, who settled within her borders to hew their way to fame and fortune,
                    has left a name which should not be permitted to be soon forgotten. This,
                    indeed, is not likely to happen; for two great states—Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    —in order to perpetuate his memory, have, as will appear
                    from the historical notices below, given his name to two prosperous counties
                    within their respective borders.
            He left a widow, who in 1816 married again, her second husband being Samuel
                    Marshall, the brother of John Marshall; but she died three years later, in 1819.
                    He also left three children—Geogre Washington Leech White, afterwards
                    a prominent citizen of Indiana, who by commission from Governor Coles, of 
                        Illinois
                    , served as lieutenant-colonel and aide-de-camp to Major-General
                    Willis Hargraves in the Black-Hawk war; Harriet Grandison White, who married
                    Albert Gallatin Sloo, at White Hall farm, in 
                        Knox county
                    ; and Juliet Greenville White, who married James Huffman. From
                    Colonel White's son, who married Miss Eliza Griffin Fauntleroy, of 
                        Kentucky
                    , are descended Colonel George Fauntleroy White, now a citizen of 
                        Knox county
                     (who has participated in two wars, the Mexican war and the late War
                    of the Rebellion), and Dr. Isaac T. White, for many years a prominent citizen of 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana. From the eldest daughter of Colonel White are descended,
                    among others, Major A. G. Sloo, now clerk of the 
                        Knox county
                     circuit court, his brother, Thomas Sloo, a citizen of the same
                    county, and his sister, Sarah E. Sloo, who married Col. Francis E. McIlvaine,
                    Mary Frances Sloo, who married her cousin, Col. Geo. F. White, before mentioned,
                    Juliet White Sloo, who married R. M. Corwine, and Harriet White Sloo, who is
                    still unmarried—the father of all these being Colonel Albert G. Sloo,
                    who in his day, as a man of immense enterprise and at one time of great wealth,
                    was known from one end of the 
                        United States
                     to the other.
            The following notices concerning Colonel White will perhaps give some further
                    idea of his standing at the time of his death.
            
            From the Indiana Gazetteer of 1849, page 106, "Battle
                    of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    ": 
                        Among the slain, who were much lamented, were Maj. Daviess and Col. Owen,
                            of Ky.; Capt. Spencer, and his lieutenants, McMahan and Berry; Capt.
                            Warrick, and Col. White, then superintendent of the 
                                United States
                             Saline lands, near 
                                Shawneetown
                            ; and Thos. Randolph, Esq., former Attorney-General of the
                            Territory. The two latter served merely as privates on this
                        occasion.
                    
            
            From Dillon's History of Indiana, page 471: 
                        At the Battle of 
                                Tippecanoe
                             the loss of the army under the command of General Harrison
                            amounted to 37 killed in the action, and 151 wounded, of which 25
                            afterwards died of their wounds. Colonel Joseph Hamilton Daviess,
                            ∗ ∗ ∗ and Colonel Isaac White, were
                            among those who were killed or mortally wounded in the battle.
                    
            
            From General Harrison's letter to the Indiana House of Representatives
                    quoted at page 477 of Dillon's History of Indiana:
                        
                        I cannot believe that you have the smallest tincture of that disposition,
                            which certainly elsewhere prevails, to disparage the conduct of the
                            militia, and to deprive them of their share of the laurels which have
                            been so dearly purchased by the blood of some of our best and bravest
                            citizens. No! I can never suppose that it was your intention to insult
                            the shades of 
                                Spencer
                            , McMahan, and Berry, by treating with contempt the corps
                            which their deaths have contributed to immortalize: nor will I believe
                            that a 
                                Daviess
                            , a White, a 
                                Randolph
                            , and a Mahan have been so soon forgotten, or that the corps
                            to which they belonged, and which faithfully performed its duty, was
                            deemed unworthy of your notice. The omission was certainly occasioned by
                            a mistake; but it is a mistake by which, if not rectified, the feelings
                            of a whole country, and part of another, now abounding with widows and
                            orphans, the unhappy consequences of the late action, will be wounded
                            and insulted.
                    
            
            From the Indiana Gazetteer of 1849, page 433: 
                        White County, Indiana, organized in 1834, was named in honor of Col.
                            Isaac White, of Gallatin county, 
                                Illinois
                            , who volunteered his services as a private in the 
                                Tippecanoe
                             campaign, and fell at the side of Major Daviess in the
                            battle.
                    
            
            From the Black Hawk and Mexican War Record, prepared and
                    published under authority of the 32nd General Assembly, by Isaac H. Elliott,
                    Adjutant-General of the State of 
                        Illinois
                    , page 320: 
                        The Prophet's attack on General Harrison with a force of over
                            700 men, under cover of darkness, and his ultimate defeat and flight,
                            with  a serious loss of killed and
                            wounded, is a part of the history of our country which concerns us only,
                            as our 
                                Illinois
                             troops participated in the victory. This battle, which took
                            place on the 6th day of November, 1811, cost the lives of 37 killed
                            outright and 25 mortally wounded, who afterwards died, and these were
                            the very flower of the young settlers of Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                             Territories. Among the killed in this battle was Captain
                            Isaac White—for whom White county (
                                Illinois
                            ) was afterwards named—who commanded a company of 
                                Illinois
                             troops raised in Saline county, of which we possess no
                            roll. Here also fell Major Joe Daviess, whose name is also perpetuated
                            in the county of that name; and of the others whose names are not
                            recorded—nor have they been perpetuated—we can
                            only say they did their duty bravely, and the sacrifice of their own
                            lives saved those of hundreds of women and children who might otherwise
                            have fallen ready victims to the cruelty of the vicious savages.
                    
            
            From an address delivered by John Lagow, Esq., an honorable and respected citizen
                    of seventy years' standing, at the Old Settlers' meeting at 
                        Vincennes
                    , May 30, 1878: 
                        I have seen Tecumseh often, and his brother, the Prophet. They were
                            shrewd Indians. I knew many of the men that fought at the battle of 
                                Tippecanoe
                             who were badly wounded; for instance, old Tom White, a very
                            clever old gentleman. He was shot through the breast and had a silk
                            handkerchief drawn through it frequently to cleanse it before it healed.
                            He got well and lived many years after. ∗
                            ∗
                            ∗ He, too, was the man who killed
                            Popendick, a very bad Indian at Fort Harrison, who had threatened his
                            life if he ever saw him outside of the fort.
                    
            
            Mr. Lagow further said: 
                        Tom White's brother, Colonel Isaac White, a very brave and noble
                            man, the father of George W. L. White, and father-in-law of the late
                            Albert G. Sloo, Esq., was killed in the battle of 
                                Tippecanoe
                            .
                    
            
            Letter of Judge John Law to Isaac T. White, dated July 19, 1867: 
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                    Evansville
                                 , Ind.,
                           
                                    July 19, 1867.
                        To Dr. ISAAC T. WHITE,
                        My Dear Sir:
                        In examining the records of the 
                                        Vincennes
                                     Lodge, No. 1, which was the first lodge ever
                                    instituted in Indiana, and I might with truth say from the
                                        Miami river to the Pacific
                                        ocean (the lodge was organized at 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , September 1, 1808), I find that Col. Joseph H.
                                    Daviess, grand master of the grand lodge of 
                                        Kentucky
                                     (the lodge at 
                                        Vincennes
                                     then being under the jurisdiction of the grand
                                    lodge of 
                                        Kentucky
                                    ), was at 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , and that on the 18th of September, 1811 (two
                                    months before the battle of 
                                        Tippecanoe
                                    ), he presided over the lodge at 
                                        Vincennes
                                    .
                        I further find that on September 19, 1811, as master of the
                                    lodge, he conferred the degree of Master Mason on your
                                    grandfather, Isaac White. 
                                    It is a little singular that in two months afterwards your
                                    grandfather, who received the degree, and Colonel Daviess, who
                                    conferred it, should both have fallen on the battle-field of 
                                        Tippecanoe
                                    . I think it is a circumstance worthy of
                                    remembrance, by his descendants, and probably unknown to them.
                        
                                    Very truly yours,
                                    JOHN LAW.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            The following is a copy of the will of Colonel White, which, giving as it does,
                    some indication of the extent of his possessions, and conveying indirect
                    information concerning the existence of slavery in Indiana, is of both personal
                    and historical interest. In connection with this will there are two
                    circumstances, to which special attention may not inappropriately be called. The
                    first is that it was written by Colonel White himself, which, considering its
                    lawyer-like accuracy and precision, gives some idea of his education and
                    business intelligence; the second is that it was written on the same day as was
                    the letter to his wife, hereinbefore quoted—a fact which, remembering
                    that he was on the eve of a duel, that he had every reason to believe would
                    result fatally to himself, shows his coolness and perfect self-possession:
                        
                        In the name of God, Amen! I, Isaac White, of the 
                                United States
                             Saline, do make, ordain, and declare this instrument, which
                            is signed with my own hand, to be my last will and testament, declaring
                            at the same time that it is the first and only one that I have made.
                        All my debts, of which there are but few and none of magnitude are to be
                            punctually paid, and the legacies bequeathed are to be discharged as
                            soon as circumstances will permit, and in the manner directed
                            hereinafter.
                        To my dearly beloved wife, Sarah White, I give and bequeath all my
                            household and kitchen furniture, all my stock and farming utensils, and
                            all my negroes, except as is hereafter expected, to her and her heirs
                            forever. I also give to her during her natural life the tract of land
                            which I purchased of Daniel Smith and George Leech, containing two
                            hundred acres; but if she, my wife, accedes to this my will, it is also
                            my will that she shall raise my three children, George Washington White,
                            Harriet G. White, and Juliet G. White, without any expense to my estate,
                            except so much as will pay for their schooling.
                        It is my will that my son George have a classical education; that he may
                            be taught fencing and dancing; and that he may be sent one year to a
                            military school; and that after he be so taught, he be allowed to follow
                            the profession or occupation that he himself may choose. It is further
                            my will that my daughters Harriet and Juliet have a good English
                            education.
                        I give and bequeath to my son, George Washington White, all my estate,
                                 real and personal (except that
                            part which I have given to my wife and is hereafter excepted), he paying
                            to his sister Harriet, at the time she becomes of age or gets married,
                            fifteen hundrd dollars, and unto his sister Juliet one thousand dollars
                            at the time she becomes of age or gets married, after paying for their
                            schooling.
                        I give and bequeath to my nephews, Charles White and John Justice, a
                            tract of land containing four hundred and sixty-four acres and seventy
                            poles, one moiety to each of them, to be so divided according to quality
                            and quantity, providing that after John Justice goes to school this
                            year, he goes home and continues to live with his aunt, Sarah White,
                            until he is twenty-one years of age; if not, the moiety that was
                            intended for him to revert back to George Washington White.
                        I give and bequeath to my niece, Betsy White, one mare, saddle and
                            bridle, to be worth one hundred dollars in cash, to be paid when she
                            becomes of age or gets married.
                        Should it happen that any of the legatees except George W. White should
                            die before they are by this my last will to receive their legacies, than
                            then and in that case the whole of the said legacies are to revert to
                            the said George W. White. But should it please God that he should die
                            before he comes of age, or after he becomes of age without issue, I will
                            that then and in that case the whole of the estate, both real and
                            personal, is to be divided equally between his sisters, Harriet G. and
                            Juliet G. White.
                        I give and bequeath to Francis Leech all my books, maps, and backgammon
                            table.
                        It is further my will that my executors collect all the debts that are
                            due me, together with what may hereafter become due, and after paying my
                            debts, &c., to vest the balance in bank stock.
                        Should Thomas White wish to improve the tract of land which I have given
                            to his son Charles, I hereby request that my executors devise it in the
                            manner before mentioned.
                        I give and bequeathed to George Leech, junior, my two-year-old colt
                            called the Phaeton.
                        I constitute George Leech, John Marshall, and Francis Leech, or any two
                            of them, executors of this my last will and testament.
                        In witness of all and each of the things herein contained, I have set my
                            hand and seal this 23d day of May, 1811.
                        The tract of land which I have bequeathed my nephews, Charles White and
                            John Justice, lies on the south side of White
                            river, and is the one I purchased of Toussaint Dubois.
                        In presence of
                        ISAAC WHITE.
                        G. C. HARLT,
                        FRANCIS LEECH.
                    
            
         
         
         
            The 
                        New Albany
                    -
                        Salem
                     Railroad—Incidents of Road and Men
            THOMAS CARTER PERRING, an employe, Oroville, 
                        California
                    
            
            STAGE COACH DAYS
            The old 
                        Virginia
                     covered wagon and the Concord stage coaches were the first public
                    conveyances for freight, mail and passenger into and out of 
                        Monroe county
                    , Indiana. They were much in evidence in the late thirties and the
                    early forties of the last century. Anyone who owned a four-horse team and a
                    strong wagon could do freighting. These masters of "prairie
                    schooners" in Hoosier dialect were called "wagoners".
                    Their occupation was spoken of as "going to the river",
                    signifying 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
                on the
                        Ohio river, at that time the only city market
                    recognized in this western country. These wagons going were loaded with fruit,
                    grain and produce. The return load was merchandise for our storekeepers and
                    townspeople. It was a sort of gypsy life—camping out at night, and
                    traveling by day. In fair weather it was an easy, pleasant and profitable
                    business. The wagoners usually managed for purpose of company and assistance to
                    travel in bunches of from four to six wagons. It took from six to ten days to
                    make the round trip, dependent on condition of the roads.
            The first roads in this country were nothing better than a narrow trail chopped
                    out through the dense forests, dug down from the hill sides, following crooked
                    streams, meandering through level valleys and going around hills by every
                    easiest way. These roads were scripturally made, just as our first parent, Adam,
                    of dirt, but not like his make pronounced good by the maker. Their names were
                    mud and sometimes "knee deep in June."
            The 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     railroad did not digress very much from the dirt road line, and it
                    was just as fearfully and wonderfully made when first built. In the high
                    thirties of eighteen hundred J. O. and S. M. Orchard, enterprising hotel owners
                    of 
                        Bloomington
                     secured a 
                        United States
                     mail contract,  and acquired a
                    stage coach line for transportation of mail and passengers from
                            
                  Louisville, Kentucky
                to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana and return passing through 
                        Bloomington
                     and all intermediate towns north and south on what at that date had
                    become known as the state road.
            The Orchards were pioneers; they owned the first and only hotel in 
                        Bloomington
                    , the "Temperance Inn" a well known hostelry and a
                    noted landmark for sixty-five years. The hotel stood on the lots now occupied by
                    the George Benckart stores. This hotel with the stables attached on the lots
                    west of the railroad station and tracks was headquarters for the Orchard mail
                    and stage coach line.
            The Orchard stage coaches were of latest Concord pattern, the best make
                    manufactured. The bodies swung on great double thongs of heavy leather on strong
                    freight-like wagon wheels built for service and durability.
            The mails were taken on in locked sacks and placed in a strong locked box under
                    the driver's seat for safety and protection. Passengers were crowded
                    into cross seats inside, alternately facing each other, one-half of them riding
                    backwards. "Always room for one more", they were crowded in
                    sometimes, pressed together like dried apples in a packing box. The luggage was
                    lashed onto a drop contraption out behind called the "stage
                    boot", because it looked like anything but a boot, except it was made
                    out of waterproof leather. And such a mixed lot of curious baggage it did
                    sometimes hold. Small hair-bristling, horsehide trunks, stuffed bags of coarse
                    carpet make and emigrant junk of every old thing, all under the name of
                    "luggage".
            The motor power of these stages was four to six dapple gray horses, necks bowed
                    up like fish hooks, and the largest and the strongest that were obtainable. From
                    hard driving and fatigue horses had to be changed at intervals of about twelve
                    miles. There were three regular changes or relays of horses in 
                        Monroe county
                     in either direction travelled. South at Col. John McRea's
                    stable one mile south of Harrodsburg. In 
                        Bloomington
                     at "Temperance Inn" stables where every passing
                    team and stage from either direction put up over night. The north relay was at
                    widow Sara Corr's Hindoostan post office, Ed Corr's
                    grandmother.
            
            The time made by these stages was contingent on the condition of the dirt roads,
                    a day's run was about sixty miles and usually made in daylight. One of
                    Orchard's stages left 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
                and another left 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana every Monday morning, each making one round trip per week,
                    three days in each direction, loaded with mail and passengers. On this schedule 
                        Bloomington
                     had four through mails and conveyances for travel each week which
                    was the limit until the arrival of the 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     railroad.
            The stage drivers on the high seat on top were the whole thing: mail carriers,
                    baggage masters, engineer, conductor, collector and sometimes quite active
                    artilleryman, for this country was not a land of sucking doves. The man behind
                    the gun was in evidence or was at least prepared for hostile emergencies. All
                    readers of Dicken's stories know the standing of Ye Coachman, and all
                    American pioneers know of the skill and the daring of the stage drivers on the
                    western trails. Those drivers of the Orchard stage coaches in their rough
                    homespun suits, stuck around with crude firearms were ever looked up to as a
                    favored class—holding exalted positions. In the words of Fitzhue of 
                        Georgia
                    , doorkeeper of the 
                        United States
                     senate they were considered bigger men than old Grant and there was
                    nothing too good for them.
            My father was the respected and honored driver on one stage of this line. He was
                    in the bloom of manhood, just over from Axminster, 
                        England
                    , and having a marked accent, became familiarly known all along the
                    drive by the name of the Little Englishman. On the opposite run, the driver was
                    Robert McPheeters the father of our Dory and John McPheeters. McPheeters was
                    known all along the line as Windy Bob, because he was a spinner of some
                    wonderful stories. Bob was a story-faker chief, said to be the biggest that ever
                    struck the trail or the town, before the arrival of god old Dr. Oregon Smith the
                    prince of story romancers.
            The salary for this honored but responsible stage service to each driver was
                    sixteen and two-thirds dollars per month and found, meaning free lodging, board
                    and laundry. This pay was regarded as princely wages in the thirties, a period
                    of hard times and scarce money.
            Passengers were not sold tickets as railroads now do but  were way-billed more like live stock freight. The
                    drivers picked up or set down passengers at their homes in the larger towns, and
                    delivered at their resident destination in each of the terminal cities. The
                    drivers were collection agents for all unpaid fares and did this business on
                    honor and without bond. A passenger from 
                        Bloomington
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     was charged or way-billed for three dollars, and to 
                        Louisville
                     for six dollars. No second class fares or half rate fellows like
                    overgrown youths or circuit riding preachers were considered. The report that
                    these drivers stopped at the bottom of a steep hill when the stage was heavy
                    loaded and called down "All first class passengers get out and walk,
                    all second class passengers get out and push", was a story of Windy
                    Bob's own creation. The Orchards with their stage drivers were the
                    first near-railroad men of 
                        Monroe county
                    . They were minus the iron rails and iron horse and coach of which
                    they were the forerunners. Those two old time stagers were crowded off the scene
                    of action, had to come down from their high seats, their occupation gone, their
                    positions usurped by the new locomotive drivers, the brass buttoned, blue coated
                    conductors on the incoming railroad trains of the new area. They gracefully
                    accepted the situation, gave a double farewell to Ye lumbering old stage coach
                    and a hearty three times three welcome to Ye easie going passenger train of the
            NEW ALBANY AND SALEM RAILROAD
            
               
                        New Albany
                    , Indiana, was an ambitious little city on the north bank of the
                        Ohio river. 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana was a progressive little hamlet thirty-five miles inland.
                    This city and town had many social and commercial interests in common. They had
                    attained the age of majority and were friendly and chummy, and flirted and
                    courted until they absorbed the double-headed notion that they would like to be
                    joined together in the iron bands of railroad wedlock. They made an appeal to
                    the new and great state of Indiana—a license was granted and marriage
                    was consumated January 6, 1847. The road was completed January 18, 1850 and was
                    christened the 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     for which James Brooks stood as godfather and Phoebe Brooks as
                    godmother.
            This 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     youngster was born delicate 
                    and weakly. It was fairly perfect in form and feature and limbs and was ready
                    and anxious for traffic and business. Its plaything like track was laid of
                    common flat-bar iron, spiked through to sawed wooden stringers, braced apart and
                    bound together every six feet by wooden cross ties. It had two daisy little
                    light-weight engines bearing the names of James Brooks and Phoebe Brooks, in
                    honor of its worthy president and his wife. Its complement of toy-like coaches,
                    box cars and gondolas were ample enough for all the business in sight or to be
                    secured.
            The opening of this railroad put the little town of 
                        Salem
                     on the map in name and reality, and swelled it up with pride like a
                    peacock with a new spring suit of plumage. It encouraged newcomers and welcomed
                    visitors, the railroad affording a new outlet, and a new experience. Many people
                    in 
                        New Albany
                     and all about the Fall City, 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , got the fashion of making excursion trips to
                    the country town of 
                        Salem
                    . Travelers and pleasure seekers spoke the phrase "Going to 
                        Salem
                    ' that it came to be a by-word. So much so that a 
                        New Albany
                     newspaper made quite an amusing wood cut illustration of the
                    saying. It represented two boys walking along a road near a sign board of a hand
                    pointing and reading "To 
                        Salem
                    ". Each boy carried in his arms a nice sail rigged toy
                    boat. Underneath the picture was printed the boys' gleeful occupation
                    "Going to Sail ‘em". (I have this picture preserved
                    in an old scrapbook).
            It is told that in the first early shipments of freight by this road was an old
                    black negro mammy, tagged, addressed and way-billed by weight and by freight
                    just as a Durham cow is now handled and freighted. This old colored woman was
                    not shipped nor destined to stop or sojourn in 
                        Salem
                     for it is an unwritten law of that town that no off-color people be
                    allowed to reside in town or county. This is quite respected and honored in its
                    observance even unto this day.
            The 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     railroad was financed, built and equipped by gifts and loans of its
                    promoters and friends and by the sale of stock. It was as poor as the turkey
                    that scratched dirt in Job's back yard. Yet it industriously held its
                    own for many years. It had almost the ambition and aspiration of Jay Gould in
                    his determination to build a line of railroad to  the Pacific coast. It first discovered that there
                    was no reasonable excuse for chartering such a selfish, sawed-off, short stop
                    railroad. The whole state of Indiana was almost unoccupied territory. The
                    mistake was so apparent that the original charter was amended under the same
                    name and title "To extend to any point in the State of
                    Indiana."
            Under this amended charter of 1847 
                        Michigan city
                     on lake Michigan was named as its first
                    ultimate point for extension. This city was on the northern boundary of the
                    state and at a distance of 288 miles from the Ohio river.
                    Here was something worth while and there were far greater and more strenuous
                    things for it under amended charters.
            Before the railroad was opened for traffic to 
                        Salem
                     in 1850 engineers were at work surveying a route north to 
                        Michigan city
                    . The survey was quite tedious. The south and central part of
                    Indiana is broken and quite hilly ground. The lines were run around hills, along
                    streams and through valleys, following the lines of least resistance and least
                    expense for construction. Not as ziz-zag as lightning but as crooked as
                        White river and for this it was sometimes made the butt
                    of ridicule.
            A small calibre engineer sent over the line once in the interests of some
                    prospective buyers reported that he saw but one place where a curve could be
                    made and there was none and that a good self respecting civil engineer could not
                    look at a true map of the line in the face and keep from using cuss words.
                    Another one was even more sarcastic. He said that a gray hound chasing a jack
                    rabbit on the line around Horseshoe Bend and some other short loops would be in
                    danger of having curvature of the spine. Also that if a lake steamer were
                    hitched onto the 
                        Michigan city
                     end and were to pull the kinks and curves out of it to a straight
                    line, it would make a track across the south end of Lake
                    Michigan to 
                        Chicago
                    .
            On the other hand some very competent modern civil engineers have given the
                    opinion that the survey and the locations were a very creditable piece of skill
                    and workmanship. To sustain this view, there has been but one change made from
                    the original line, the Harrodsburg cut off—and that was done for the
                    betterment of the grade. Many other early railroads of the State have been
                    straightening curves and eliminating grades without number.
            
            In the fall of 1849 the 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     railroad line was surveyed through our home county of 
                        Monroe
                    . From a point on the south line near the town of Guthrie ranging
                    northerly, coming through and splitting 
                        Bloomington
                     almost in halves, thence out to the north line of the county near
                    town of Gosport, a long angling line, county cut bias our mothers would say.
                    This has proved a very fit route too, for it has never ravelled out or shriveled
                    up, giving the county a long mileage from which to draw annual taxes.
            The greatest bugaboo about adopting this survey was the big expense of
                    constructing the high bridge and fill at Jackson's Creek, and the deep
                    rock clay cut at the edge of town getting through the hog-back ridge, socalled
                    because once infested with razor-back hogs.
            This ridge was the highest point on the railroad survey, one of the high points
                    in the state. To the south water flows to the east fork of White
                    river and to the north flows to the west fork of White
                        river. For all this ridge has a deep cut, it still has a steep
                    grade for a railroad. Before any surveys or levels of this ridge divide were
                    taken ascertaining that it was one of the high spots, a dry old Scotchman
                    traveling through by stage coach on a night stop over measured up the altitude
                    by a different standard. He said to a friend: "
                        Bloomington
                     is the highest place in the state. I paid two dollars there for a
                    bottle of ale." That could not have been a slur at the
                    "Temperance Inn". The Orchards were teetotalers and were
                    jewels of consistency.
            So this pioneer railroad was projected through 
                        Monroe county
                     in 1849, the same year that numbers of our citizens hit the trail
                    bound for the gold mines of 
                        California
                    . With them with equal propriety it may be dubbed a forty-niner.
            LOCAL ASSISTANCE
            It has been mentioned that the 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     railroad was built equipped and in operation between its original
                    charter terminals. In that condition it was not quite in the predicament of a
                    companion railroad building in southern 
                        Illinois
                     and mentioned in the humorous writings of Irvin S. Cobb. The name
                    of that railroad was the Lake-Gulf, Continental and Pacific Slope. After the
                    promoters got twenty-seven  miles of it
                    built they ran out of money and stopped. The long name protruded out at each end
                    of the right-of-way, and one dark night, the engineer (it had only one engineer)
                    mistook the road name for the track and ran the train off the end of it,
                    painfully injuring Henry Clay Potts, a traveling salesman for a tobacco house at
                    Paducky, 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            The 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     railroad was short of ready money about as helpless as a busted
                    bank. However it had nerve and grit, and friends that were workers and pushers
                    for its charter extension. It was assisted by gifts and grants and by
                    subscriptions for railroad stock. The fashion of building railroads was raging
                    in Indiana, any county not having one was out of fashion and was out of the
                    world as well.
            
               
                        Monroe county
                     had no railroad so it began to pick up and take notice. Here was a
                    new railroad being projected lengthwise through the great state of Indiana. A
                    proposition to connect the navigable water of the Ohio
                    river with that of the Great Lake. Not a stingy "all wool
                    and a yard wide pattern", as our merchants say, but a for-sure standard
                    railroad, two hundred and eighty-eight miles long and thirty-three and one-third
                    yards wide, warranted a sure go, a big winner and an enormous revenue producer. 
                        Monroe county
                     could have thirty three miles of this road within its own
                    boundaries for the asking—substantially backed up of course with
                    sufficient assistance and encouragement.
            The Company only advocated a free right of way, some donations and a nominal
                    stock subscription. This stock was to be a dividend winner, and a valuable and
                    paying investment for ever and ever. In addition the town of 
                        Bloomington
                     was promised a railroad roundhouse, the machine shops and a freight
                    division terminal.
            Town meetings were called, the public's feelings worked up and all
                    citizens were enthusiastic for giving and getting the road at any and all
                    hazards. The argument was that, just as sure as civilization follows the flag,
                    so does commerce follow the cowcatcher, and the railroad would work for the
                    upbuilding, the betterment and great salvation of 
                        Monroe county
                    .
            Thomas Carter my grandfather was a hard pusher and untiring worker for the new
                    road, and was elected as chief stock solicitor. Afterwards he was appointed
                    stock collector and  local paymaster for the
                    railroad. His office was in the George Johnson little brick store on the corner
                    where the First National bank building is now being erected. I was a much
                    favored son of my grandfather. I had accommodated him by taking his name Thomas
                    Carter at my christening (about which I was not consulted, however) but for
                    reason of affection or official nepotism I was made his office boy and here it
                    was I first learned of actual railroad doings, because right up on the front
                    seat of the railroad band wagon so close to the head of the procession. Building
                    grounds and right of way were pledged to the railroad and a liberal stock
                    subscription procured. Fifty dollars was made the price of a share and there was
                    no limit to the game. It was thought to be the simonpure old Jacob Townsend
                    blown in the bottle goods and was as popular accordingly as Mrs.
                    Winslow's soothing syrup with teething children. Just as every sucker
                    in the state takes a bottle or two so every citizen must have a share or two.
                    People fairly fell over themselves in haste to subscribe. I remember often
                    looking over the stock book giving the names and numbers of shares of the many
                    subscribers. It looked like a duplicate 
                        Monroe county
                     tax list of that period and each and every one of them subscribed
                    like a bloated bond holder for from five to twenty shares. Mr. Carter in stock
                    soliciting did meet with one notable rebuff, out of the ordinary.
            He bumped up a time or two against Phillip Bunger, a fine old 
                        Virginia
                     gentleman (it would have been more fitting if he had been from 
                        Missouri
                    ) having lately settled in the county. He was the owner of a fine
                    farm, well to do, and able to help in any public enterprise, but downright close
                    and stingy and of the doubting Thomas order. Being urged earnestly to help along
                    by subscribing for a block of stock, he finally did open his heart and loosen up
                    his purse string by saying: "Well Mister Kahtah, sah, if that thar
                    stock sah, is as good as you say it is, sah, you may put me down for fifty cents
                    wuth, sah, and no moah, sah."
            Terms of payment for this railroad stock were very easy; most anything went in
                    payment—cord wood, cross ties, timber, lumber and bridge stone. My
                    father paid for his stock mostly in bridge timber and stone delivered at
                    Jackson's and Clear Creek bridges three miles south of the town. Some
                    subscribers  gave land, Alexander Leland of
                    Beanblossom township gave a full section, six hundred and forty acros in a body.
                    Several gave smaller acreages in other parts of the county. There was also quite
                    a body of land in 
                        Greene county
                     acquired by the railroad in the same manner.
            Of the four lots occupied by the depot and its surroundings, two were given by J.
                    O. and S. O. W. Orchard, and two by Ellis Stone in exchange for railroad stock.
            The first location survey of the route into town was east of the present line
                    along Walnut street and following Spanker's branch across the Maxwell,
                    Ben Adams and Graded School lots to the present site of the depot. Because the
                    owners of these lots would not give a right of way in exchange for stock the
                    route was changed to the 
                        Bedford
                     road and up Morton street. This line the railroad got free, just
                    appropriated the road and the street, without leave or license. In this the
                    railroad built better than it knew, even if it did have a costly cut to make it
                    had there a nice stretch of straight track the longest in the county.
            In making collections of all this railroad stock subscription there was but one
                    contention about payment, and that was due to breach of promise on the part of
                    the railroad. The first survey of the road in the south part of the county was
                    located near the Ketcham mills. On the strength of this survey Col. John Ketcham
                    owner of the mill and a large body of surrounding land subscribed for a block of
                    railroad stock. The route of the road was afterwards changed by the railroad
                    folks on the plea of getting more business out of the little town of Smithville
                    than from the mills. This change so exasperated Colonel Ketcham that he refused
                    payment of his stock subscription. Smith was brought in court to enforce payment
                    and the railroad lost, no ketch-‘em Ketcham stock. All told it is
                    believed that near one hundred thousand dollars worth in donation and in stock
                    was gathered from the willing and generous people of 
                        Monroe county
                    .
            The stock, as per railroad representation, was a sure permanent investment, at
                    least as far as the paper goes on which it was written. No doubt great bunches
                    of it today could be raked out of old socks and strong
                    boxes—worthless souvenirs of each owner's railroad
                    investments. The stingy old Virginian  who
                    acted so cleverly "I am from 
                        Missouri
                    , sah", proved a wise old owl, and had the laugh on his
                    more liberal neighbors who delivered the goods. The people got what they went
                    after and for what they bargained.
            Built in a happy go lucky fashion, in the crudest, easiest and least expensive
                    way, it was nevertheless, a railroad and filled the prescription and met the
                    requirements. The town got its promise too, in a four-stall engine roundhouse,
                    stocked with one little hot-air base-burner, hour-glass shaped, sand
                    sifter-drayer, a machine shop lean-to-employing one brawney blacksmith and his
                    helper, a one hoss (iron horse) turn-table, and the railroad's middle
                    division terminal. In addition to all that it got a great big unsightly brick
                    depot thrown in for good measure; given as a compliment to the town and the
                    people who had given their lots and lands, and chattels and good money so
                    spontaneously. This big depot went up in holy smoke one Sunday morning in May,
                    1868 by a Heaven-sent lightning-kindled fire, burning numerous lots of
                    merchandise and all the early records of the local station. It was shortened up
                    at both ends constructed in dimensions and rebuilt by Richard A. Fulk,
                    contractor. There was no kick coming and there was none rigistered from the good
                    citizens of 
                        Monroe county
                    . When the lord made all things and pronounced them good he had not
                    yet caused to be made the 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     railroad and its novel equipment.
            Some seventy miles of the main line track was built of flat bar iron in manner as
                    has been described. One advantage of this kind of railroad construction, it did
                    not furnish an attractive highway for the hobo cross tie pounder, with his
                    measured tread or lock step, habit. They gave it a wide berth in their weary
                    travels.
            The ordinary pounding of the engines on this flat-bar track often loosened the
                    flat-headed nails and the end of the bar springing up was called a snakehead.
                    This was as much of a danger signal as a red flag. A stop had to be made and the
                    end of the bar respiked down before proceeding or the train was derailed. The
                    constant loosening of these bars, and their springey nature was ever a source of
                    trouble and of danger. My father and mother, passengers on one of the early
                    trains, were almost "mortally scart" by one of these bars
                    coming  loose and poking up under the moving
                    train, and breaking through the floor near the seat they occupied, bending up
                    the bar in horse shoe like shape on the inside of the coach, to the injury of
                    some and to the imminent danger of many of the passengers.
            This flat bar, a poor apology at best, was used until worn to mere streaks of
                    rust. A green engineer making a first trip over this worn track shying around
                    the hills and scooting along the crooked streams trying to follow the weed
                    covered twin streaks of rust got lost or confused and mixed up in direction.
                    Stopping his engine near a wood chopper on a hillside he called "Helloa
                    thare, Say stranger, Is this the right road to 
                        New Albany
                    ?"
            The first little wheezy wood-burner, fire-tossing engines, with their balloon
                    shaped smoke stacks, and their canvas covered bow top cabs of wagon bed shape
                    were of small and light pattern.
            The first engines of the 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     railroad proper were named for the officers of the road, all
                    residents of 
                        New Albany
                    , two of duplicate make, one for James Brooks the other for Phoebe
                    Brooks his wife. Others for George F. Talman, George Lyman and B. F. Maston and
                    some other officers. There was one exception but a fit associate of these high
                    gentry, which had the name of "Sampson" the strong man of
                    biblical history. This was an extra strong engine, it had no record for violence
                    toward men but to bulls and cows trailing along its right of way was credited
                    with mangling a plenty.
            The other rolling stock of the road, those little short squatty sawed off
                    eight-ton box cars had roofs so low that a full grown man had to stoop or
                    telescope himself to enter and could not stand erect inside. Counterparts of
                    cars that Artemas Ward compared to a "string of second hand coffin
                    cases on roller coaster wheels, and passenger coaches in appearance a cross
                    between a hearse and an omnibus and when in motion so noisy that you could not
                    hear a coupling pin drop". One of these engines, a coach and a box car
                    or two would make a rattling good old time railroad exhibit for the nineteen and
                    seven Jamestown exposition.
            A dinkey little tram of this kind of equipment was the first one put in service.
                    It was called a "Wild Cat" a go-as-you-  please train for work and for freight. If a
                    passenger could get on and could stay on and take box car luck with the crew he
                    was accommodated. No agents were on the road yet, but this train would take on
                    or put off freight at any old place if the owner was in charge. So, would-be
                    passengers, farmers wanting to ride to town, woodchoppers, timber cutters going
                    to work at some point on or near the road, would offer a dinner pail, a chopping
                    tool or some trifling article as freight, pay twenty-five cents freight, get on
                    the train and ride as a passenger to get off and take charge of shipment at any
                    place demanded. Uncle Tobe Batterton on a fishing bout at Salt Creek one day
                    stopped this train and freighted two little goggleeye fish to the Walker meat
                    market, just to get on the train and have a ride into town and home.
            After the new road was placed in better condition this free and easy
                    "Wil Cat" train was superseded by two mixed trains of a few
                    freight cars and one coach for passengers. These trains were called
                    "Accommodation", and there was a train each way every day
                    between 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Bloomington
                     provided they made the trip. These trains had a printed schedule or
                    time card to run on, but it was of little more use than a last month's
                    calendar. They were "Accommodation" in name and in feature.
                    George Ade denominated such trains, "lovers accommodation",
                    because they "would wait at station for the last farewell and long
                    drawn out kiss of parting lovers, and would then move off slowly to make the
                    separation more gradual". These trains would stop for a passenger when
                    flagged at any public crossroads, and sometimes were stopped half innocently for
                    other purposes.
            Mother Clifford flagged a train one day; when she did not climb aboard the
                    conductor asked her what was wanted. She calmly asked him to change a five
                    dollar bill for her which he obligingly did. Another time a wag of a boy flagged
                    the train, when asked for what he stopped the train said "he thought it
                    might have a passenger that wanted to stop at the crossroads." These
                    and other like stops, put the trains off time. Then a flagman had to be sent out
                    who trotted ahead at a lively like gate like an early day letter postman, and
                    who gave warning to any approaching trains. These trains were never near card
                    schedule, often from twelve to twenty hours 
                    late. It was during this regime of trains that Lewis Bollman being in 
                        New Albany
                     got a letter that his wife was quite ill. Wishing to get home the
                    quickest way he could not wait for the wagon, "the uncertain moving
                    trains." He claimed and is credited with walking from 
                        New Albany
                     to 
                        Bloomington
                    , ninety-seven miles, in a day's time, beating the time of
                    some trains and saving the price.
            A disgruntled passenger writing about these trains said it took a long summer day
                    to get there for the engine was fed with wood and we now and then had to load
                    the tender with fuel corded on the right of way and water the locomotive
                    sometimes by bailing from near streams with buckets, (the brake-man called this
                    operation jerking water) and from this the road gets its name of jerkwater road.
                    It also had to stop to mend couplings, to cool off hot-boxes, drive cattle off
                    the track, and wait at meeting points for other trains in equally bad luck.
            About the worst slur of record on these slow trains, was made by a passenger, a
                    game 
                        Kentucky
                     woman who during a stop of the train put her head out of the coach
                    window and exclaimed, "Wy Why, there's that nigger on
                    horseback I saw ten miles back from here. Gee, I wouldn't have that
                    hoss—he is a back number, can't go faster than this
                    train."
            As the 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     railroad was slowly being pushed to completion for its full length
                    north and was to be opened for through traffic it found itself in need of more
                    and of new engines. So all the old official named engines of whatever name color
                    or previous condition of servitude were rushed through the back shop at 
                        New Albany
                    , repainted and regilded into new engines. Glittering all over with
                    bright brass mountings, and shining with new coat of paint as many colored as
                    Joseph's coat, these old engines came out spick and span as new and the
                    whole bunch was palmed off on the public as new engines. As a compliment to the
                    citizens they were ornamented with the names of the several best town. There was
                    engine 
                        Salem
                    , Orleans, 
                  Bedford,
                            Bloomington
                and so on
                    to 
                        Michigan City
                    .
            Engines seemed to be almost invariably given masculine names, yet it is the
                    uniform custom of roundhouse to speak of them in feminine gender as her or she.
            These little masculine named and feminine petted 
                        New Albany
                    
                     and 
                        Salem
                     wood-burner engines, with their big mouthed, balloon shaped, little
                    at bottom and big at top smoke stacks, were great spark tossers and fire
                    spreaders. In the country on heavy pulls they would scatter fire all over the
                    landscape. The section men all along the lines were trained fire fighters and
                    worked overtime on the job.
            Heavy trains from the very first, just as now, had to be started north from 
                        Bloomington
                    , up the steep grade and through the deep cut curves with two
                    engines, a puller and a pusher. The fiery furnace display these little belching
                    engines gave out on a dark night was a pretty pyrotechnic exhibition worthy the
                    observation of fireworks lovers. This was stopped in a manner after some years
                    by the introduction of spark arresters and completely done away with when
                    engines were converted into coal burners.
            OPENING
            The track of the 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     railroad was laid into Blomington in the fall of 1853 but it was
                    not finished through the county until the following summer. On the south
                    division work and accommodation trains had been running with some degree of
                    regularity, and occasional freight trains were in service on the north division.
                    At 
                        Bloomington
                    , July 4, 1854, the 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     railroad was declared finished and open for traffic throughout its
                    completed length. Excursion trains crowded with people came in to 
                        Bloomington
                     from both north and south. Men, women and children from 
                        Monroe
                     and from adjoining counties came in to see and to make merry. It
                    was a grand opening advertising like our merchants pull off and the 
                        New Albany
                     railroad was the goods. That Fourth of July celebration was not the
                    usual reading of the Declaration of Independence, handing a lemon to King George
                    the Third with canon-cracker firing and "bombs bursting in
                    air" accompaniments. The excursion trains from 
                        New Albany
                     brought in some of the officers of the railroad and there was a
                    free for all jollification, glorification, speeches from delighted railroad men,
                    and also from jubilant citizens, a feast of reason and a flow of soul, and a big
                    barcecue dinner served on the courthouse square. Bouquets galore were handed to
                    James Brooks and associates as well as to 
                        Monroe county
                    's heroic workers and stockholders.
            
            There was just one little discordant note from a disgruntled neighborhood
                    smart-fellow who had binocular vision into the future of premonition of probable
                    bankruptcy; and who vented his spleen on gigantic confidence games and stock
                    juggling exploitations in general but on none in particular.
            To this jollification Fourth of July meeting our honorable and worthy club member
                    Judge Duncan, a lusty country boy then from Lawrence county came up on the train
                    that day to see something doing. It was his first trip away from home alone he
                    told me and he was so afraid the western train would get away from him or he
                    would get lost in the great crowd that he hardly dared get out of sight of the
                    train; for he did not want to be left behind, and have his good mother crooning
                    "Where is my wandering boy tonight".
            That day the young people had a gala day, and sights never before witnessed. They
                    hung around the novelty, the "Kivered Kars" just like they do
                    around the elephant tent on show day. "All went merrie as a marriage
                    bell" except some up-country girls were scared almost into a conniption
                    fit by the trainmen shouting in their hearing their impertinent and as they
                    thought personal insult put away train orders, such as "shunt
                    her", "Run her up the main", "Switch her in
                    side", "Kick her overcrossing" "Cut her in
                    two", all mixed in with a goodly sprinkle of explosive profanity.
            Now began the running of passenger trains through town on time card schedule.
                    From their first inception almost the entire population of town turned out en
                    masse to meet the trains. The novelty and the attraction was irresistable. The
                    people got the habit, and have the credit of most industriously and
                    enthusiastically keeping it alive for many years. This train-going habit was
                    indulged in as a sort of afternoon recreation (the two passenger trains in
                    either direction passed the station in early afternoon) and it flourished like a
                    vaudeville show until given a knock-out jolt by the arrival of too many trains,
                    so many trains that it induced tiresomeness and led up to the lingering death of
                    the train-going habit about the year of the opening of the present century.
            Kin Hubbard makes Abe Martin his Philosopher of 
                        Brown county
                     in his 1907 Almanac, remark about those train-going lady habitues:
                    ‘Having once overcome their inborn desire to  hang around the depot when the trains come in,
                    these women took readily to housework and became ideal wives and
                    neighbors".
            The first year or two of the railroad's operation of trains it had no
                    telegraph or Morse Code or Marconi system or any quick work modern methods.
                    Later along and in conformity with other railroad work an apology of a telegraph
                    line was constructed. It was very like some of our country party telephone lines
                    of this date. One small strand of common wire loosely strung on low black jack
                    poles, about such as farmers use for training butter beans and hop vines. The
                    first message used were sight written, that is were first impressed on a long
                    narrow white paper ribbon, by feeding through a little roller dot and dash
                    perforating receiver, then cut out, deciphered and translated from the Morse
                    code into 
                        United States
                     and into train order formulas. This machine process was as slow as
                    a freight train on a wenty-five per cent grade and like machine madegoods and
                    machine made poetry, it was not as good stuff as the smoking hot voice turned
                    off by hand or by brain of our present day sound lightning jerkers.
            George Chase, a long time shoe merchant here, a young man then, was the first
                    operator or rather paper ribbon reader, and the wire, or the spark, or the
                    receiver had a very naughty habit of getting out of order, falling down or out
                    of adjustment at the most inconvenient and inopportune times imaginable. In
                    these tantrums the telegraph was no better all around day and night train
                    speeder and regulator than the stone sun dial on the University campus is a time
                    adjuster on a cloudy day.
            There was one train on the railroad that neither time nor tide nor telegraph
                    could hasten or regulate. That was the train to which the pay car was attached.
                    It was sometimes weeks late, that much behind monthly schedule. Its trips were
                    like angel's visits "few and far between". The
                    employees' pay was not princely and was as slow as the racing tortoise
                    to get there, and many vigorous kicks were frequently registered. Blackie
                    Chandler a short time employee as extra brakeman made complaint that it was a
                    damned site harder wurruck, and tuck longer time to git yous pay after yees had
                    yearned it, that it ded time to yearn it in first place. Owen Meredith  wrote in Lucille: "Civilized man
                    could not live without cooks". Railroad men are sort o'
                    civilized and could not live without dining. So to keep in touch with
                    eating-house-keepers employees got advance railroad scrip, a sort of grub stake
                    currency. In railroad lingo of the men it was denominated hog and hominy orders.
                    (Our quarry men call such scrip bean orders and they love to despise them like
                    sin.)
            Lee Willson, a wag of an engineer, running his engine without sand supply, to the
                    question why? gave as a reason that the railroad company had none and there was
                    not a sand bar or a sand bank on either fork of White
                    river, or any other bank on his run that would honor the
                    company's draft for two bushels of engine sand.
            From its very first inception the railroad was the butt of ridicule, and got the
                    gaff from employees and the public. It was dubbed and derided as the jerkwater,
                    the dogfennel, the double-track-twin-Rust-Streak, et cetera. Its trains were
                    named Wild Cat, Screach Owl, Ragtime (flag) and Ten-minute-a-Mile-Scooter. It
                    got there all the same going or coming, and it was not long putting the old 
                        Virginia
                     wagon and the Concord coach out of commission, and causing their
                    drivers to go way back and sit down.
            The first employees in train service were few in number and quite well known. In
                    a boy's youthful fancy, the men that made the "wheels go
                    round", engineers and conductors, were great big IT. The first
                    engineers came in from some older road, had served apprenticeships and were
                    skilled in their profession. They were quiet as Quakers and brown and rugged as
                    Comanche Indians. Their names could be mentioned as well as the names of the
                    engines they handled.
            Edward Gregory engineer with James Draysdale fireman on engine Blomington pulled
                    the first train "The Construction" into 
                        Monroe county
                     as well as the first passenger train into 
                        Bloomington
                    . These two men became residents of this city. Edward Gregory
                    married Miss May Sluss, and James Draysdale married a sister of the late D. O.
                    Spencer. Ed Gregory gave a limb and a life time to the railroad, as engineer,
                    master mechanic and passenger train conductor.
            James Draysdale was a long time trusted engineer, but he seemed to get under an
                    unlucky star and was caught in several 
                    wrecks. One disabled him for a long time, and he was taken care of by the lodge
                    of Odd Fellows of this city for a period of eighteen months or longer. Just a
                    limited amount of instruction and training soon made trainmen and conductors.
                    When wanted they sprang up in a night like Johah's gourd. Some of the
                    conductors names were Col. John McCrea, Wm. F. Browning, W. M. Tate and Calvin
                    Snodgrass. Later James Kelly, John Armstrong, Peter Copp and Isaac Dains. These
                    four resigned conductorships to accept Captain's commissions in the
                    volunteer army of the Civil War and all of them lost their lives in the service
                    of their country. Browning and Snodgrass are the only representatives now
                    living. Conductoring was in its infancy and its honesty. The toss up over the
                    bell cord settlement, all that sticks to the bell cord is railroads money and
                    all that comes down is conductors, was not then in practice. Nor was color
                    blindness—can't tell railroad's from personal money
                    an epidemic. These old time, old conductors got none of these old chestnut
                    roasts, nor tainted money stings, for like Caesar's friends they
                    "were all, all honorable men".
            Then came on a younger generation of railroad men, boys, young roosters about my
                    age and calibre. That like "Uncle Tom's Cabin Topsy, just
                    growed up and stepped into railroad work and positions. Their numbers are
                    legion, to write their names on these pages would make them look like the leaves
                    from the city directory.
            
               
                        Bloomington
                     was a terminal of two divisions, regular incubator and worked to
                    the limit of its capacity. Of the first "hatch out" there is
                    but two of the youngest now in railroad employ, all the others got a plenty,
                    stepped down and out, or on account of age limit were subject to Oslerization.
                    Conductor Jack Mitchell runs a passenger Flyer on the 
                        Missouri
                     Pacific, 
                        Kansas City
                     to 
                  Denver, Colorado
               . Engineer Ezra
                    Mathers is a Big Four veteran, pulls the 
                        New York
                     Knickerbocker, 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                  St. Louis,
                            Missouri
               , and
                    return. Here also is a coincidence, these two old stickers are brothers-in-law,
                    having married sisters, nieces of the late Col. John Harrell, ex-treasurer of 
                        Monroe county
                    .
            
               
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     employees were better educated and better trained than the ordinary
                    run of railroad men. Every mother's son of them spoke two
                    languages—English and profane.  A
                    good 
                        Quaker
                     woman said it sounded like stutter word languages—a sort
                    of railroad Esperanto.
            The conductors could read the hurriedly writter train orders without prompting
                    from telegraph operator and they could place their signature to the pay roll
                    with the handy steel pen or oftener with the illiterate sans X buck. When
                    cautioned about knocking down cash fares, they learnedly replied none but the
                    brave deserve the fair. When told by a cash fare passenger that they had
                    collected a half dollar more than the opposite run conductor did for the same
                    distance they kindly handed back fifty cents with wise remarks "We meet
                    all honorable competition. There is nothing small about us but our
                    salary."
            The 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     railroad was known and called the College Road for the reason it
                    had such a string of colleges all along the line. There was DePauw Seminary,
                    Borden Institute, Southern Baptist Normal, State University, Asbury College, 
                        Wabash
                     College, PerDue Agricultural, Northern Normal not mentioning a
                    state reformatory at the south and a state penitentiary at the north terminal.
            Not excepting any named the railroad had ex-pupils as employees from every one of
                    these schools of education. Smart, bright, clever employees but to their shame
                    some of them as crooked as ziz zag lightning, and these are the fellows that
                    helped hasten the railroad into the hands of a receiver.
            ABSORBED
            October 4, 1859 the 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     railroad recovered from the hands of a receiver and was placed
                    under a new management. 
                        Salem
                     lost its place and name in the railroad game. On this same date 
                        New Albany
                     also was given a mortal wrench and lined up as a way station, but
                    permitted to hold second place in the new title of 
                        Louisville
                    , 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Chicago
                     Railroad Company.
            "An onion tastes as sweet by any other name" says the fair
                    Juliette. It was a lemon that was handed the two original railroad terminals. 
                        Salem
                     squirmed and kicked as fiercely as the mule maud of the Hearst
                    sunday paper supplement. The only satisfaction she got was the noises and the
                    bruises on  her hoofs, from banging on the
                    doors of a new railroad heartless corporation.
            The set-back, shake up and jar to 
                        New Albany
                     placed her in about the same predicament as Pat Casey was given in
                    a train wreck. Casey was a passenger in a sleeping berth one night when the
                    coach was wrecked. In his scare and haste to make his toilet he donned his
                    trousers hindside before, and in his scramble to get out he rolled down a steep
                    embankment. While in this plight a friend came to his assistance. Brushing the
                    gravel out of his whiskers, and getting him straightened up, he asked Casey if
                    he was hurt? Casey surveying himself, an noticing his trousers on hind side
                    before said "No Oi'm not hoort, but Oi've got a devil
                    of a twist".
            
               
                        New Albany
                     was allowed to retain her grip on the general offices which she had
                    monopolized from the very beginning, but being forced to play second fiddle,
                    what a fall was there my countrymen. The name of the old pioneer, the loved and
                    respected 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     railroad is obliterated forever. With its crooked road, its rusty
                    rails, its wireless telegraphy, its dingy cars, its pigmy engines, and its slow
                    time card it proved out, it got there in good shape, it was worth the price.
            Goodbye and farewell.
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notes
            
               The Land of the Potawatomi. By ELMORE
                        BARCE, Fowler Indiana. Member of Indiana Historical
                    Society, pp. 115. 1919. Fowler.
            The readers of the Magazine are acquainted with the author, Mr. Barce. He has
                    been interested for years in the history and legends of the Potawatomi who
                    inhabited the prairies northwest of 
                        Lafayette
                    , and the early settlement of this section by the White pioneers.
                    The Indians themselves, their relation to the early British agents, their part
                    in the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign, their later banditti life, Topenebee, their trails, the 
                        Chicago
                     road, the old taverns, the 
                        Grand Prairie
                    , the prairie fires, groves and plains and the first cattlemen are
                    some of the topics the author has treated. While no footnotes are given the
                    author has appended a bibliography showing that he has searched far and wide for
                    all the evidence to be found relating to his subject. The author has a keen
                    sympathy for the pioneer times and things and a good easy style of writing.
                    These he combines to give us a gem in the little book under review. Besides
                    preserving the bits of history now fast disappearing and the legends it is a
                    literary treasure.
         
         
            
               Centennial History of 
                            Illinois
                        . The 
                        Illinois
                     Centennial Commission of fifteen members, authorized by act of
                    January 21, 1916 and appointed by Gov. Edward F. Dunne, besides other work of a
                    celebrational nature, planned a history of the state, to be complete in five
                    volumes. In commendable distinction from similar committees elsewhere this
                    committee recognized that serious history writing was the work of specialists
                    and assigned the actual work over to young men carefully trained in the best
                    history seminaries in the country. The general supervision and direction of the
                    work was placed in the hands of Professors Evarts B. Greene and Clarence W.
                    Alvord of 
                        Illinois
                     University. The commission has availed itself of the best
                    historians of the state and has apparently assisted in placing  at the disposal of the writers all the historical
                    materials to be had. Three volumes have now appeared and if the others maintain
                    their high excellence the people of 
                        Illinois
                     will not be disappointed. They are certainly the best work so far
                    done in the field of state history. The introductory volume is entitled:
            
               
                  
                            Illinois
                         in 1818. By SOLON JUSTUS BUCK, 
                        Springfield
                    , 1917. pp. 362.
            When the work was begun Dr. Buck was secretary of the 
                        Illinois
                     Historical Survey at the University of 
                        Illinois
                    . Since then he has become secretary of the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society. The purpose of this volume is to give a picture
                    of 
                        Illinois
                     at the time of its admission, a back ground or setting for the
                    later volumes. It takes some effort to get back to 1818 from 
                        Illinois
                     at the present. Indians hunted over far more than half the state.
                    The state was sandwiched across the American frontier. The first chapter
                    therefore deals with the Indians and the fur trade. Almost as dissimilar and
                    unreal were the ancient subjects of Louis le Grande living on the southwest
                    border of the state from 
                        Kaskaskia
                     to Cahokia. Into this wilderness the author must next bring the
                    surveyor and land speculators to prepare for the lank, backwoodsmen now
                    transforming themselves into prairie farmers. After sketching briefly the
                    location and amount of public lands open for settlement the reader may take his
                    position at 
                  Shawneetown,
                            Vincennes
                or 
                        Old Kaskaskia
                     and watch the weird procession come in to take possession of their
                    own after half a century of bloody conflict. 
                        Illinois
                     has had a full measure of distinction but nothing in its history
                    should be more inspiring to the citizens of today than to see in imagination
                    these lusty veterans, mens, women and children, march quietly in and take their
                    places on the firing line. Too often they are overlooked among the more gifted
                    men who came later to develop the country, frequently by crowding out the
                    original settlers.
            The scene changes. The conquerors pass off and the organizers come on, with their
                    work of social, political and economic development. Poetry gives way to prose,
                    romance to reality. The latter are not unlike ourselves, we can understand and
                    appreciate them, the former belong to a different world,  ethically and economically a different world. The
                    chief event in the process of organization was the formation of the state, so
                    the author devotes the last five chapters to this work. In this there is little
                    peculiar to 
                        Illinois
                    . The new constitution was almost a duplicate of those of Indiana
                    and 
                        Ohio
                    . The bogey of slavery was present in all but there was only a
                    remote probability that the institution would gain a foothold anywhere in the
                    movement.
            The author has observed all the rules of good historical composition. The purpose
                    evidently was to set forth a fair picture, truthful and lasting. Many a good
                    pioneer story has evidently been passed up; many a dramatic situation has had to
                    be neglected. Those who desire a thrilling story of course will be disappointed.
                    Likewise the author has disappointed those readers who look in history for the
                    delineation of great social forces—a modern name for the discarded
                    philosophy of history. No one except a novice in the field of history or a
                    charlatan indulges in these sweeping generalizations. A good bibliography and
                    index add to the general excellence of the volume.
         
         
            
               The Frontier State 1818–1848 The
                        centennial history of 
                            Illinois
                        
                By THEODORE CALVIN
                        PEASE, University of 
                        Illinois
                    . 
                        Chicago
                    : A. C. McClurg & Company. 1919. 745 p. $2.00.
            This volume is one of a series written and published by the Centennial Historical
                    commission to place in the hands of the citizenship of 
                        Illinois
                     a reliable account of the transformation of a wilderness land into
                    the present state of 
                        Illinois
                    . It illustrates the advantages and disadvantages of cooperative
                    authorship. The disadvantages of cross-sectioning are about equaled by the
                    advantages of more careful investigation. Dr. Pease has rightly relied, entirely
                    it seems, on primary sources—newspapers, state records and
                    manuscripts. Any one who has not tried can never realize how difficult it is to
                    wring a connected consequential story out of such materials. The writer who
                    produces alleged history from reports of commissions, public speeches and
                    magazine articles may even die in the belief that he has been a historian. The
                    public has very little appreciation of the vast gulf between the two kinds of
                         history. It is unfortunate that the
                    same name has to be given to the products of both. There is the same fundamental
                    difference between the work of Dr. Pease and that of the commercial or hack
                    historian as between the artist and the photographer.
            The period covered by the volume is the thirty years from 1818 to 1848. The
                    problems were primarily political. The author has devoted twelve of the
                    twenty-two chapters to political development. During this time the state was
                    organized and political parties developed. During the first period political
                    activity centered around the leaders and the whole is correctly named the period
                    of personal politics. Even what is known in American history as Jacksonian
                    Democracy is only a national case of personal politics. Similarly the tremendous
                    following of Harrison was primarily personal. During the thirty years the
                    questions of slavery, both national and state, finance, including the bank
                    struggle, internal improvements and the public lands were threshed out on the 
                        Illinois
                     hustings. These questions are the more difficult because no party
                    stood for them but rather on each there was a new alignment. Individuals change
                    fronts in bewildering perplexity. Each issue and each individual were influenced
                    to a greater or less extent by still more local issues. The location of the
                    state capital, the location and management of the banks and above all the
                    location of the internal improvements. How considerable these cross-currents
                    operated is shown by a comparison of the conclusions of Dr. Pease with those of
                    the standard historians of the United tates. Those who yearn for another period
                    of so-called independent voting should study the history of the northwestern
                    states during the period of personal politics.
            Besides the essentially political issues the next in importance were banks and
                    internal improvements. Here Dr. Pease found a trace of party regularity, the
                    Democrats usually opposing both, though neither party was able to make either a
                    test of party regularity. 
                        Illinois
                     like its neighbors, tried to meet a real economic need with its
                    state bank but failed and had nothing to show for its effort but regretful
                    experience. How far this failure was due to poor management, the situation or
                    party politics the author does not say, perhaps it is impossible to tell.
                    Practically the same general experience  was
                    had with the internal improvements. Here the experience of 
                        Illinois
                     was similar to that of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana and 
                        Michigan
                    , so similar that a change of proper names and figures would make
                    the story apply to either state.
            The stories of the Mormon war and the Black Hawk war are peculiar to 
                        Illinois
                     and are well told. The general attitude of the people toward the
                    Mormons and the Indians was the same in all the western states.
            Little can be said in adverse criticism. One is tempted to say that too much
                    space is given to politics. One would like to read of the every-day life of the
                    folks, for the big work after all was that of transforming the woods and
                    prairies into farms. The chapters on 
                        Illinois
                     in ferment and social advance are devoted to this subject and for
                    that reason will probably appeal most to the mass of readers. For the
                    corresponding period in Indiana history I was able to find little in either
                    home, church or school that would yield material for the historian. The home
                    life was dull, hard and monotonous, the schools were mostly themes for
                    discussion and neighborhood quarrel. Everything was personal and individual. So
                    in the case of 
                        Illinois
                     one might in criticising the author for lack of more attention to
                    these subjects only betray the critic's ignorance.
            The style of the volume is not as light and easy as it should be for popular use.
                    Many of the sentences are involved so that one frequently has to go back and
                    re-read them before he grasps the meaning. This may be due in part to the large
                    amount of detail contained. The reader at times when expecting a clear cut
                    conclusion is also disappointed in the caution of the author. Especially is this
                    true where blame is in question as in the bank or internal improvements
                    management.
            The state is to be congratulated on the excellence of the work of Dr. Pease. The
                    thanks of the people of the whole northwest are due the author for the long,
                    tedious, dishwashing work necessary in the preparation of such a volume.
         
         
            
               The Era of the Civil War, 1848–1870. By ARTHUR CHARLES COLE,
                    University of 
                  Illinois,
                            Illinois
                Centennial
                    Commission, 1919. pp. 499.
            The author of this volume took up the story where Dr. Pease left off. His first
                    task was to divest his state of its  pioneer
                    garments, a change which took place about the middle of the century. The volume
                    naturally falls into two parts, the passing of the frontier, characterized by
                    the building of cities, organization of social institutions such as schools,
                    churches and banks and the second part, the origin, conduct and resulting
                    problems of the Civil war. During the first period the author travels along in
                    easy coordination with the sister states. 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana passed from the pioneer stage about the same time; each
                    had its internal improvement period, and each tried to organize its banks,
                    schools and other institutions on a better basis. 
                        Illinois
                     profited to some extent by the mistakes of 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana on canals but was not so fortunate as Indiana in its
                    banking system. The same influences operated in politics and the experience of 
                        Illinois
                     was cumulative until 1860. With the approach of the election of
                    1860 the plot widens and the history of 
                        Illinois
                     becomes inseparable from that of the nation. The debates between
                    Douglas and Lincoln are national and from then till the assassination of 
                        Lincoln
                        Illinois
                     history becomes national. One can hardly say that the Republicans
                    of 
                        Illinois
                     were more interested than the Republicans of Indiana in the
                    nomination and election of Lincoln. Henry S. Lane, candidate for governor of
                    Indiana, and leader of the Republican delegation from Indiana to the convention
                    of 
                        Chicago
                     in 1860, did everything in his power for Lincoln. The Indiana
                    Republicans were as much elated over Lincoln's success as were those of 
                        Illinois
                    . The reverse of course is not true. Indiana history for this period
                    has not the national significance. This fact made the task of the historian of 
                        Illinois
                     for this period difficult. A most significant chapter is the one on
                    the industrial revolution of 1860–70. Comparatively little attention
                    has been paid to this tremendous result of the war. In the reconstruction period
                    the history becomes more easily limited to state boundaries.
            The author is not hampered in this volume for lack of source materials. The
                    problem is no longer one of finding but one of choosing and harmonizing. The
                    volume is written almost entirely from the sources, manuscript and newspaper.
                    These were amply supported by state and federal documents, biographies and
                    reminiscent material.
            The writer is best in his political history though such chapters  as the passing of the pioneers and the population
                    in wartime are excellent. The chapters on industrial topics such as the coming
                    of the railroads, industrial revolution, and agriculture and the war are rather
                    heavily laden with detail for easy reading. The style in general is easy only
                    occasionally dropping below the usual demands of elegance. The author sustains
                    the high level set by the preceding volumes and insures the state a history
                    worthy of its greatness.
         
         
            
               Indiana Historical Collections. The Indiana Centennial 1916.
                        A record of the celebration of One Hundredth Anniversary of
                        Indiana's Admission to Statehood. Edited by HARLOW LINDLEY, Secretary of Indiana Historical
                    Commission. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1919. pp. 441.
            The volume is made up primarily of addresses by various members of the
                    commission, accounts of the county celebrations and the larger pageants. There
                    are a number of full page illustration, principally of the various members of
                    the commission together with the various state houses and the Constitutional
                    Elm. The volume is a decided improvement over the preceding volumes in matters
                    of arrangement, typography and paper. The contents are so various that a
                    detailed review is hardly profitable, if possible.
         
         
            A copy of the History of the Heatwole Family was presented to
                    the Survey by Frank L. Crone. The volume was written by Cornelius J. Heatwole in
                    1907 and traces the family from near Steeg on the Hundstrück in the
                    fourteenth century down to the present. The American ancestor landed at 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1748.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Iowa
                         Biographical Series. James Baird Weaver. By FRED EMORY HAYNES. Published by
                    the State Historical Society of 
                        Iowa
                    . pp. 494. 1919.
            The career of General Weaver illustrates in a concrete way the course of western
                    politics since the war. He was born of Scotch, English and German parents in 
                        Ohio
                    , educated in the east, and a lawyer by profession. His ancestors
                    fought in the Revolution and he fought in the Civil war. The great interest in
                    his life, however is in his political career which carried him from the
                    Republican party to the Greenbackers, from there to the Populist, from there to
                    Democratic, at all times being a 
                    Prohibitionist on the liquor question. It is not proper in this review to
                    examine the reasons for this career further than to say that this is the
                    principal theme in the biography. He was a radical, as that term is popularly
                    understood and on all political issues was a generation ahead of the voters. No
                    student of present day politics in the 
                        United States
                     but will enjoy this study of the life of General Weaver. In many
                    ways he was the forerunner of Bryan and Wilson.
         
         
            
               Legal and Political Status of Women in 
                            Iowa
                        . An Historical Account of the Rights of Women in 
                            Iowa
                         from 1838 to 1918. By RUTH A. GALLAHER. State Historical Society of 
                        Iowa
                    , 
                        Iowa City
                    , pp. 300. 1918.
            The volume is divided into two parts. In part I the gradual enlargement of the
                    civil rights of women is traced while in part II the growth of political right
                    has been discussed. In this evolution 
                        Iowa
                     stands somewhere near midway, not so radical as the states farther
                    west and not so conservative as those farther east. It may be regarded therefore
                    as following closely the public opinion of the nation as a whole. Beginning with
                    the status of women in the common law the author has followed through the
                    legislation of the state on her personal rights, in education, in the
                    professions, in the criminal and divorce laws, property rights and rights in
                    industry. The political rights sought by women are those of voting and holding
                    office, or the broad right of suffrage. This history of the contest in a typical
                    state, coming now when the fight is almost won in the nation is timely and
                    interesting. As in most of the states women are still without the power of the
                    ballot principally because of the difficulty in amending the constitutions. For
                    the same reason 
                        Iowa
                     like most of the states will default its duty and thus again the
                    nation will have to supplement the weakening powers of the state.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Switzerland
                         County Days and Ways, by the class of 1920 of 
                        Vevay
                     high school is a pamphlet of eight pages, containing a dozen short
                    local sketches and traditions.
         
         
            
               Indiana Historical Society Publications Volume VII, No. 3 and 4.
            No. 4, The National Road in Indiana. By LEE
                        BURNS, a 28 page pamphlet is a well written account. The
                    writer has  had access to the laws relating
                    to the road, the field notes of the surveyors, the reports of its
                    superintendents and has read the literature of the subject. A list of the
                    taverns along the road is given.
            Number 3 is Reminiscences of the Early 
                            Marion County
                         Bar. By WILLIAM WATSON WOOLEN. The pamphlet consists of 24 pages of
                    personal observations and recollections concerning the leading lawyers of 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 1825 to 1850. No lengthly biographies are given but the
                    characterizations are excellent.
         
         
            THE FORTIETH ANNUAL SESSION of the Department of Indiana Grand Army of the
                    Republic was held May 6, 7, 8, 1919 at 
                        Elkhart
                    , Indiana. One hundred seventeen posts were represented. The total
                    membership of the state was 6620 as compared with 7250 one year previous. The
                    total number of posts was 252. The Roll of Honor (deaths during the year)
                    contained 592 names. The Proceedings, a pamphlet of 105 pages,
                    gives the statistics of the order and the speeches and reports made at the
                    meeting.
            BULLETIN No. 10, Indiana Historical Commission is a prospectus
                    for county war histories. The work of collecting the records of the war is in
                    charge of John W. Oliver and Lucy M. Elliott.
            The Annual Report of the 
                        Louisiana
                     State Museum for 1918 shows a commendable activity on the part of
                    the curators and other officers. The museum was established in the Place
                    D'Armes to preserve historical documents, relics, books, works of art
                    and specimens of minerals, plants and animals. Its ambition is to preserve a
                    material history of the state. It employs a field collector in history and an
                    historical assistant. Among the full page illustrations in the report are a full
                    length portrait of John M. Slidell; a Choctaw Village, 1850; and the Battle of 
                        New Orleans
                     from a sketch made in 1815.
            The Fifth and Sixth Annual Reports of the State Fire Marshal,
                    H. H. Friedley, for 1917 and 1918 are issued in a separate pamphlet. The total
                    fires listed for 1917 numbered 5764 entailing a property loss of
                    $6,179,436. In 1918 the number of fires was 4,967 with a loss of
                    $7,055,090. The city of Clinton sustained the highest per capita
                    loss, $41.40. Most of these 
                    fires are shown to be preventable and the marshal is carrying on a
                    fire-prevention propaganda.
         
         
            
                    Papers of the Bibliographical Society of America. Vol. XIII.
                    Part I, 1919. Daniel Webster's Speeches. By CLIFFORD CLAPP. University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press. 1919 pp. 85. price $1.10.
            The writer has made no effort to write a biography of Webster but merely to list
                    with care the published speeches, separate and in collections, as they have been
                    issued. For any one interested in making a collection of Webster material or a
                    study of the great orator this booklet will be a valuable aid. Brief comment
                    concerning the character and occasion of each speech is made.
         
         
            
               The 
                            Tennessee
                         Magazine of History for April contains an article by
                    Samuel C. Williams on the Henderson Land Company's activity in 
                        Tennessee
                     and an article by J. Tyree Fain on Some Confusing Statements in
                    Ramsay's Annals. The latter article is especially
                    interesting in discussing the confusion of names among the Tipton family from
                    which John Tipton of Indiana is descended. Dr. W. A. Provine succeeds St. George
                    L. Sioussat as editor.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Michigan
                         History Magazine for July 1919 is taken up largely with
                    the state activities in collecting war materials. Besides this is an article by
                    Judge John L. Stone on the Upper Peninsula.
            THE
                    Catholic Historical Review for July—October
                    contains the biographies of three eminent Catholics, Firmin, Francisco de Lasnen
                    of early 
                        California
                    , Cuthbert Fenwick a pioneer of 
                        Maryland
                     and Paul de Saint Pierre the first German-American priest of the
                    west. The latter was at Cahokia 1785–1789, at St. Genevieve
                    1789–1797 and at Iberville 1804–1826. Before coming to
                    Cahokia he had been a chaplain in the French army in America under Rochambeau.
            
               Miscellanies of the Wyoming Historical Society 1919 contains
                    articles on the Early Newspapers of Wyoming, the Wheat-land Colony, Story of the
                    Lost Cabin Mines and the 
                        Texas
                     Trail.
            
               William and Mary's College Quarterly edited by Lyon G.
                         Tyler was discontinued with the April
                    number 1919. In its place July 1919 appeared Tyler's Quarterly Historical and Genealogical Magazine by the same editor.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Western Pennsylvania
                         Historical Magazine for July is largely taken up with an
                    account of the celebration of the 125 anniversary of the incorporation of
                    Pittsburg. Besides this is an article on Pittsburg authors by H. J. Webster.
            
               Smith College Studies, April 1919, contains a study of the life
                    of Hadrian by William Dodge Gray. The July Studies contains
                    the Hayes-Conkling Controversy 1877–1879 by Venila Lovina Shores.
            MRS. E. H. HARRINGTON, a music teacher of 
                        South Bend
                     has recently publish ed the National Music Chart.
                    This consists of four octaves, the range of the human voice, of the piano
                    keyboard beginning on the second line below the bass staff and reading to the
                    second line above the treble staff. The chart contains all the rudiments
                    necessary to teach music to beginners in schools. Mrs. Harrington has also
                    prepared the National Music Reader.
            
            THE
                    Twentieth Biennial Report of the 
                            Minnesota
                         Historical Society shows a membership in the society of
                    509. The library now numbers 131,046 volumes. It occupies a new building, all
                    its own, costing near a million dollars. The 
                        Minnesota
                     historical society receives $25,000 per year from the
                    state and accounts itself poor. 
                        Wisconsin
                     gives $61,000, 
                        Illinois
                     $60,000, 
                        Iowa
                     $55,580. Up until last year Indiana gave $300
                    but that was refused in 1919.
            The February 1919 
                  
                            Minnesota
                         History Bulletin is taken up entirely by Dr. Guy Stanton
                    Fords' address on America's fight for public opinion. The May
                    number has three historical articles. William Gates le Due, by Gideon S. Ives;
                    The Birth Notices of a State, by Herbert C. Varney; and The Bond Papers.
            THE JANUARY
                    National Genealogical Society Quarterly continues the record
                    of marriage licenses in the 
                        District of Columbia
                     1801–1820; also there is a list of births and death
                    notices from 
                        Quaker
                     records of 
                        Montgomery county
                    , Md. The April-July number is devoted to records from 
                        Maryland
                     tombstones, principally from 
                        Hagerstown
                     and Frederick. The  large
                    proportion of German names here is significant of the importance and extent of
                    this early migration.
            THE
                    Ohio Valley Historical Association met October
                    16–18 at 
                  Berea,
                            Kentucky
               , guests of 
                        Berea
                     college. The members in attendance were few but the local
                    attendance was good. The speakers were all present or sent in their papers.
                    Indiana was represented by two speakers, Harlow Lindley of Earlham, who spoke on
                    Henry Clay's Place in History; and Logan Esarey of Indiana University
                    who spoke on the Myth of the Poor White Trash. J. R. Robertson of 
                        Berea
                     is the retiring president, W. H. Siebert of 
                        Ohio
                     State, is the new president and Elizabeth Crowther of
                            
                  Oxford, Ohio
               , is secretary. The next
                    meeting will be at 
                  Columbus,
                            Ohio
               .
         
         
            
               Year Book of the State of Indiana for the year 1918. By CHARLES KETTLEBOROUGH. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1919. pp. 1054.
            This is the second year book of the state as provided for by act of 1917. The
                    purpose of the book is to standardize the reports of the various offices,
                    boards, commission, bureaus and departments which use public funds. Somewhat
                    over one half of the volume 736 pages is used for that purpose. The remainder,
                    318 pages is devoted to statistics and information usually contained in the
                    statistical report.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
