
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 48, Issue 4, pages 331-447. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:48+issue:4+year:1952&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Hoosiers and the "Eternal Agitation," 1848–1850
            
                    Roger H. Van Bolt*
               
                
            Early in January, 1848, the Indiana politicians met in 
                        Indianapolis
                     to consider the coming presidential campaign. Neither at the state convention of the
                    Whigs nor of the Democrats was any effort made to diagnose the general state of political
                    health—both adopted a "wait and see" attitude.
            The Whigs felt they had reason to be optimistic, for the Polk administration had aroused a
                    respectable number of citizens of the state to cry out against the political crimes committed
                    against the Northwest. The Whig position resolved itself into the task of finding a suitable
                    candidate, which was no easy job for a political party feeling the stress of sectional attitudes. A
                    few of the party members expressed a willingness to lay aside local prejudices so the party could
                    unite upon some distinguished individual,1 but this offer in each case was
                    hastily withdrawn when a candidate was suggested who possessed sectional attitudes that were not
                    common to the Indiana Whigs.
            The party had enjoyed great success in 1840 with a military man, so it was rather natural that
                    Schuyler Colfax sought out the opinions of his friends as to the availability of Zachary Taylor. As
                    early as May, 1847, the 
                        South Bend
                     editor received a reply from Godlove Orth of 
                        Lafayette
                     on the qualifications of the General. Orth was unwilling to concede much vote 
                  
                     * Roger H. Van Bolt is Historical Research Specialist Edison
                            Institute, 
                                Dearborn
                            , 
                                Michigan
                            . This article is a chapter of his Ph.D. dissertation at the University of 
                                Chicago
                            , 1960, Written under the direction of Avery O. Craven.
                  
                     1 Godlove S. Orth to Schyler Colfax, 
                                Lafayette
                            , February 11 1847, in J. Herman Schauinger, "The Letters of Godlove S.
                            Orth, Hoosier Whig," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), XXXIX (1943), 385.
               
                     getting power to militarism, declaring: "The true
                    history of the campaign of 1840 is not yet written, but it was more than Harrison's
                    military fame that elected him. The corruptions of Van Buren's administration, the
                    feeling of frontier life and frontier settlement, represented as it was in that campaign by the
                    National Emblem of the Log Cabin (for all our people East West North & South were once Log
                    Cabin men) did much to elect Harrison. Besides he was somewhat of a statesman and a finished
                    scholar. Do you now know that we are triumphantly pointed to his Bolivar letter as we did to the
                    campaign of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    ."2
            
            The same politician, Orth, after a trip through the East in the fall of 1847, had found further
                    reasons for not favoring the Hero of 
                        Buena Vista
                    , for he again wrote to Colfax: "I am confirmed by my visit through 
                        New York
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                     & Penna—in reference to my opinion of Genl Taylor—the
                    feeling against slavery & its further extension is too deeply rooted among the masses for
                    Politicians to run with success any ultra slavite."3
            
            Not all the Whigs shared Orth's opinions, however, for a few days before the state
                    convention was to be held, the Whigs of 
                        Wayne
                     County, a stronghold of the party, endorsed Taylor after condemning the Mexican War and
                    the 
                        Texas
                     annexations.4
            
            When the convention met, the Whig politicians proved reluctant to endorse any candidate. After they
                    had halted the incipient Taylor movement, the delegates decided to allow the national convention to
                    pass upon the merits of the various candidates, preferring to bide their time with a compromise
                    ticket that sought to satisfy the desires of all the elements of the party. The 
                        Michigan
                     City News ridiculed the electoral ticket as a Whig salamagundi of
                    "fish, flesh and foul."5
            
            As the time for the national convention drew near, the Hoosier Whigs were still undecided as to a
                    presidential candidate. Winfield Scott, John McLean, Henry Clay, and Zachary Taylor were all being
                    considered. Each had availability and each had disabilities, as far as the Hoosiers were concerned.
                        
                  
                     2 Orth to Colfax, 
                                Lafayette
                            , May 9, 1847, ibid; 388.
                  
                     3 Orth to Colfax, 
                                Gettysburg
                            , 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , September 9, 1847, ibid, 389.
                  
                     4
                            Indiana State Journal, January 10, 1848, cited in Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (2d ed.; 2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1918), I, 48
                  
                     5 Quoted in the 
                                
                                    La Ports County Whig
                                
                            , February 19, 1848.
               
                     Scott, who was relatively untarnished by antislavery views,
                    appealed to the more conservative wing of the party, and he had the added advantage of being outside
                    the party intrigues, yet giving every appearance of being a substantial Whig. McLean was supported
                    by John Defrees, editor of the Indiana State Journal, the central Whig organ, but
                    there were others who felt that McLean was too far removed from the
                    "B'hoys." 
                        Clay
                     had the support of the old Whig elements, but he also had the handicap of a long line
                    of political defeats. As one Whig wrote: "Is it reasonable to suppose that men who have
                    voted against 
                        Clay
                     for twenty years will now vote for him? Opposition to 
                        Clay
                     is a part of their nature—and however much they dislike the measures of the
                    administration, their hostility to 
                        Clay
                     is still greater. Men whose first votes were against 
                        Clay
                     and who have always voted against will not change…. We enter the contest
                    with certain defeat awaiting us here—and can we under these circumstances make the
                    necessary efforts to maintain even our present position in our state politics."6
            
            The dilemma of the Whig party in Indiana, as one politician saw it, offered an interesting example of
                    the complexities of the political scene in the federal union. The question became one of choice
                    between national success or local advantage for the Whig party, for it seem inevitable that one
                    level of the political hierarchy would have to be sacrificed to benefit another. Within the state,
                    if party success was achieved by 
                        Clay
                    , for example, the factions outside the circle of; his supporters would lose their
                    relative position of influence among the Hoosier Whigs. Orth deliberated over the problem and wrote:
                    "The Legislature of next winter has many important offices to fill, US
                    Senator—Prest. of State Bank—secretary of State &c &c. We can
                    secure the Legislature if we have the right man as our candidate for Prest. but even then it will
                    require the utmost exertions. With 
                        Clay
                     I am sorry to confess it, we would be in a hopeless minority. Shall we then risk our
                    state elections & ascendency for the slight hope of carrying N.Y. … Again, the
                    younger portion of the Whigs regard the peculiar friends of 
                        Clay
                     as old Hunkers, who are to share all the 'spoils of
                    office'—and thus they are deprived of one great incentive to
                    action—and their action, young, vigorous, & enthusiastic, gives to a campaign
                    much of its spirit & eclat."7
            
            
               
                  6 Orth to Colfax, Lafyette, April 29, 1848, in Schauinger "The
                        Letters of Godlove S. Orth," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIX, 391.
               
                  7
                        Ibid., 891–92.
            
            
            The Indiana State Journal was more blunt in recognizing the growing antislavery
                    element in the state when it listed the specifications for a potential Whig victor in the state:
                    "A large number of our voters are Abolitionists, conscientiously opposed to voting for a
                    slave holder. …They held the balance of power in Indiana. They are Whig and will not
                    support the Whig ticket unless free from that objection."8
            
            When the national convention met in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , the Indiana delegates on the first ballot gave nine of their twelve votes to Scott; on
                    the last, they gave Taylor seven votes, 
                        Clay
                     one, and Scott four. The nomination of Taylor was not to the liking of the Indiana
                    Whigs, but out of party loyalty many decided to back the military hero. Wincing under the
                    possibility of having to face charges of supporting a slaveholder for the presidency, young Whigs
                    like Colfax and Orth expressed the view that the party choice was unfortunate,9
                    but both elected to back the Hero of 
                        Buena Vista
                    .
            The Democrats had also held their state convention in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in January, with only twenty-one counties of the state reportedly represented to back
                    Cass as the favorite candidate. The main problem of the Democrats was that of party
                    spirit—apathy seemed to prevail everywhere, and it was up to the Democrats to arouse the
                    electorate to show a little enthusiasm. The accomplishments of the Twenty-ninth Congress had had
                    little effect on the people: it had stirred up some old problems and brought out some new ones, but
                    even the question of slavery (which was distasteful to Indiana Democrats), rivers and harbors (which
                    was still unsolved), tariff (a party victory), expansion (which certainly had not been a complete
                    failure from the Democratic point of view), patronage (which both locally and nationally was in the
                    hands of the party)—not one of these had evoked much reaction. The approval of Cam for
                    the Democratic nomination was in the best tradition of party loyalty by a state organization that
                    had not found much to get excited about.
            There were a few, however, who disapproved of Cass. One of these was John Law, who wrote to Martin
                    Van Buren that neither the Whig nor Democratic nomination was satisfactory; 
                  
                     8
                     Indiana State Journal, April 26, 1848.
                  
                     9 Orth to Colfax, 
                                Lafayette
                             July 11, 1848, in Shauinger, "The Letters of Godlove S.
                            Orth," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIX, 393, Willard H. Smith,
                            "Schuyler Colfax, Whig Editor, 1845–1855," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XXXIV (1938), 272.
               
                     in his opinion, the state was doubtful for the Democracy. There
                    were a few party defections in northern Indiana, following the nomination of Cass, but even the
                    Whigs doubted if the discontented members would remain outside the party fold for long.10
            
            For those Whigs and Democrats who felt they could no longer occupy their old political homes, the
                    Free Soil Convention, held in 
                        Baltimore
                     in July, offered them refuge. The Free Soil movement in Indiana, born out of the old
                    Liberty party, failed to progress to any great extent beyond this nucleus of its membership, for
                    contrary to their hopes, there was no wholesale defection among either the Whigs or Democrats, and
                    it proved difficult to develop new leadership among the few who did bolt from the major parties. The
                    greatest proponents of Free Soilism were men who had long been associated with the antislavery
                    movement. The state convention, which met July 26, 1848, drew up resolutions supporting Van Buren
                    and the platform of the Free Soil 
                        Buffalo
                     Convention, and set up a test for their future state candidates.
            An examination of the Free Soil leaders of the state reveals the character of the party organization
                    and the source of its support. There was, for example, John B. Semans, one of the few Whigs who
                    refused to accept a non-northern candidate. Semans screamed in an editorial in the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Journal: "The nomination of Gen. Taylor is a disgrace to the Convention
                    and an insult to the intelligence and virtue of the American people. The Whig party is basely
                    betrayed—aye, sold to the Southern slaveholder. For ourselves we are against the
                    nomination might and main, heart and soul."11 According to the 
                  
                            La Porte
                         County Whig, which had searched its soul as to the nomination and had finally
                    accepted Taylor, the Journal was the only Whig organ that would not make its peace
                    with the party. Semans had opposed the party before, so that this bolt was not a new experience to
                    him. In order to obtain the post of state printer in 1847, he had refused to go into party caucus.
                    Schuyler Colfax had considered purchasing the Journal at that time in order to rid
                    the Whigs of Semans and 
                  
                     10 John Law to Martin Van Buren 
                                Vincennes
                            , July 10, 1848, Martin Van Buren Papers. Microfilm copy of these papers is at
                            the University of 
                                Chicago
                            . Schuyler Colfax to D. D. Pratt, 
                                South Bend
                            , June 15, 1848, in the Pratt Collection, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     11 Quoted in the American Freeman July 18, 1848, as
                            cited by Theodore C. Smith, The Liberty and Free Soil Parties in the
                            Northwest (
                                New York
                            , 1897), 128.
               
                     the embarrassment of having to be associated with a man accused
                    of Fourierism and allied Greeleyisms. The 
                        Lafayette
                     editor was in no new position by being at odds with the Whigs when he became an ardent
                    Free Soiler in 1848.12
            
            Another leader of the new party was the former Liberty man, Stephen S. Harding, of 
                        Ripley
                     County. After leaving the Whig party in 1840, he had twice been a candidate for the
                    office of lieutenant governor on the Liberty ticket. Although not a Garrisonian abolitionist,
                    Harding had been an ardent antislavery leader in the state for many years and at one time had
                    predicted that in twenty years slavery would be wiped out of existence in the 
                        United States
                    . The Indiana State Journal reported on Harding and the second Free
                    Soil Convention, held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in August, 1848, thus: "We attended the Convention and heard some of the
                    speeches made. On Tuesday night, Mr. Harding, one of the leading Abolitionists in the State,
                    entertained his audience with a speech of considerable length. In the course of his remarks, for the
                    purpose of making Van Buren palatable to the Abolitionists, he took the ground that all his former
                    opposition to him and all his political inequity should be buried with the past—and that
                    all should now rally around him, because he was now right. He acknowledged that it was with some
                    difficulty he got his own consent to go for him—but he finally concluded to do
                        it."13
            
            Still another leader was Stephen C. Stevens of 
                        Madison
                    , the Liberty party candidate for governor in 1845, who in his campaign had advocated
                    the abolition of slavery "over the dead bodies of both the old political parties"
                    and "through the doors of twenty thousand churches."14
            
            Young Lew Wallace became a spokesman for the Free Soilers, but for other reasons. He cared little for
                    either Van Buren or the Free Soil doctrine, as indicated when he later wrote: "Now, my war
                    upon candidate Taylor was limited to Indiana. He could hope nothing from Democrats. Good strategy,
                    on the one hand, pointed to weakening the Whigs, for 
                  
                     12 The letters of Godlove s. Orth to schuyler colfax contain numerous
                            references to Semans' battlerc with the local Whig factions in 
                                Tipecanoe County
                             and 
                                Lafayette
                            . See Schauinger, "The Letters of Godlove S. Orth," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIX, 365–400.
                  
                     13
                            Indiana State Journal, August 30, September 1, 1848 in Etta R. French,
                            "Stephen S. Harding: A Hoosier Abolitionist," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XXVII (1931), 223.
                  
                     14 William W. Woollen, Biographical and Historical
                                Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883), 355.
               
                     whom, as a rule, abolition had the fewest terrors. Taylor would
                    be a slave-holder's president. His election would mean the extension of slavery. That, as
                    anybody could see, was the string to pull with Whigs. I cared nothing for Lewis Cass or for Martin
                    Van Buren. My only thought was to keep Indiana out of Taylor's column of states. Dignity,
                    honor, self-respect demanded that much of the state."15
                    Wallace's hatred of Taylor dated from the Mexican War, when the Hero of 
                        Buena Vista
                     had condemned the volunteers of the Second Indiana Regiment and inferred cowardice on
                    their part, with the result that the state suffered the stigma of military ineptness for many years
                        after.16 The politicians were quick to attack Taylor on this score, and
                    cries of honor were raised in behalf of the Indiana Volunteers in the Mexican War.
            Three 
                        Indianapolis
                     gentlemen of means supported the Free Soil Banner which Wallace
                    edited during the campaign. One of these financial supporters was Ovid 
                        Butler
                    , a leading lawyer of the state and a Democrat. 
                        Butler
                     was the law partner of Calvin Fletcher, president of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     State Bank. Both of these men were active reformers and leaders, supporting many
                        causes.17 These were the leaders in the forefront of the Free Soil crusade
                    in Indiana. Whether they could disrupt the major parties remained to be seen.
            Election day in Indiana in 1848 revealed no great up heaval in the fortunes of the Democracy. The
                    Free Soilers, however, proved to be thorns in the side of the Democrats and managed to put Jesse
                    Bright in a bad humor all day. He had left 
                        Washington
                     to supervise personally the 
                        Jefferson County
                     election in his native town of 
                        Madison
                    . As he watched the polls, he roared at the Free Soilers: "G-d damn
                    you—I wish you and they were in Hell…. If I had the power I'd send
                    you there." Bright stood at the ballot boxes all day challenging votes. One of the more
                    sophisticated citizens of 
                        Madison
                     appraised such actions and wrote: "No doubt the day will
                    come, when Indiana will spurn their Hectoring vagabond, and blush for the time when he was her
                    Senator," and some day the state 
                  
                     15 Lew Wallace, Lew Wallaee: An Autobiography (2
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1906), I, 204.
                  
                     16 R. Carlyle Buley, "Indiana in the Mexican War,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, XVI (1920), 47–68.
                  
                     17 Jacob P. Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     . (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1910), II, 1165; Berry R. Sulgrove, History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion
                                 County, Indiana (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1884), 169, 176.
               
                     will "vindicate the degeneracy of public &
                    political morals that the regime of Polk has brought about."18 His
                    prophecy did not come true, for with Cam receiving a plurality of 4,538 votes, and Van Buren 8,100
                    votes throughout the state, the Whigs remained the party out of power.
            It is difficult to break down the source of Free Soil strength. The indications are that the party
                    had mustered its strongest vote in the 
                        Quaker
                     strongholds of the state, gathering fifty-two per cent of its vote in nineteen counties
                    of the state.19 Nevertheless, the Whigs still carried these traditional citadels
                    of party strength. The vote did not have any particular significance other than the fact that it was
                    a sizeable balance to be fought over by the parties in the next elections. Apparently a platform
                    like that formulated at 
                        Buffalo
                     was less abhorrent to the citizens of the state than it had been feared.
            That the slavery question had potential merits as a tool to prod the electorate became even more
                    apparent after the election, for the political excitement of the year was not yet over. There still
                    remained the task of naming a new senator. The candidates were asked the following questions by the
                    members of the legislature: 1) Do you believe that Congress possesses the power under the
                    Constitution, to prohibit slavery in the newly acquired territories of New 
                        Mexico
                     and 
                        California
                    ? 2) Will you, if elected to the 
                        United States
                     Senate, use your influence and vote for the passage of an act prohibiting slavery in
                    New 
                        Mexico
                     and 
                        California
                    ?
            Although the Democrats had a clear majority in the legislature, Whigs and Free Soilers were fishing
                    about for a moderate Democrat whom they could support. The strategy was summed up by one 
                        Henry County
                     member of the legislature when he wrote: "For the Senate, the candidates as
                    far as I have been able to learn, are Hannegan, the present incumbent; Gov. Whitcomb; E. M.
                    Chamberlain and John Law; and among them, I fancy it will be difficult for Whigs and Free Soil men,
                    who are really so, to make a choice. Law undoubtedly approximates nearest to correct principles, but
                    if the Whigs should combine with his friends and elect him, it is probable that in his efforts to
                    restore himself to a good standing with his party, 
                  
                     18 John Lyle King, November 8, 1848, Diaries, Indiana Historical
                            Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     19
                            Whig Almanac and 
                                    United States
                                 Register for 1847 (
                                New York
                            , 1847), 48.
               
                     which he should lose to some extent, he would prove treacherous
                    to the men who elect him."20
            
            Thus when the candidates replied to the queries, almost all of them except Robert Dale Owen met the
                    requirements of supporting the Wilmot Proviso, which prompted the 
                  
                            La Porte
                         County Whig to editorialize on the "Political Summersets of the
                    Indiana Democracy." Owen remained consistent to his vote of 1846 and would concede only to
                    a joint resolution declaring the existent free status of the territories. He would not support the
                        proviso.21
            
            Governor James Whitcomb and Edward A. Hannegan both agreed that Congress possessed the power to
                    prohibit slavery in the territories. Whitcomb further agreed to use his influence and vote for the
                    passage of an act to prohibit slavery in New 
                        Mexico
                    . Hannegan, however, replied: "Upon all questions of this character, I have
                    ever held my final action open and liable to the control of circumstances. In making the pledges you
                    require I should be completely hampered, and in such a way as might leave me the subject of an
                    awkward dilemma. It might bring me directly in conflict with the duty of the Representative to obey
                    the Instructions of his constituency; a duty which I have ever held as a cardinal point of political
                    faith. These instructions, to be binding, must be given a majority. Upon the subject involved, in
                    all its bearings, should I be elected Senator for the ensuing term, I shall be governed by the
                    instructions of the Legislature of Indiana, whose will it will be my highest pleasure to carry out
                    in earnestness and good faith."22 The Indiana Senator, however much he
                    paid homage to democratic principles, had not answered the question of support.
            The Democrats finally nominated in caucus James Whitcomb and elected him. The Governor, now the
                    senatorial incumbent, had expressed his views earlier in an address at the opening session of the
                    legislature, declaring that: "Decided as the opinion of the people of Indiana is, against
                    the institution of human slavery, yet, they have ever manifested a determination 
                  
                     20 Martin L. Bundy to the 
                                New Castle
                            
                            Courier, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , November 6, 1848, in Clarence H. Smith (ed.), "Letters of Martin L.
                            Bundy, 1848–49," Indiana Magazine of History, XXII
                            (1926), 86.
                  
                     21
                            
                        
                                    La Porte
                                 County Whig, December 23, 1848; Richard W. Leopold, Robert Dale Owen (
                                Cambridge
                            , 
                                Massachusetts
                            , 1940), 249.
                  
                     22 Frankie I. Jones, "Edward A. Hannegan"
                            (Master's thesis, Department of History, The University of 
                                Chicago
                            , 1940), 71.
               
                     not to interfere with the constitutional rights of any of our
                    sister States on this subject. …But the present question does not regard slavery in the
                    States or in any State. It refers solely to the propriety of its existence hereafter, in a territory
                    now free. This territory has come to us free—it is now free, and in my opinion should
                    remain free, and that every constitutional and legal means should be adopted to continue it
                        free."23
            
            It was over the manner in which the territories were to be kept free that conflict arose among the
                    parties. Little concern was exhibited in Indiana over the question of whether to allow slavery to go
                    into the territories; Hoosiers put the emphasis on the method of prohibition. There was, for
                    example, the problem of interpreting the phrase "every constitutional and legal
                    means" which Whitcomb had used in his pledge. Martin L. Bundy, speaking for the Whigs,
                    questioned the meaning of this: "Well, the Governor has fought hard for the station, and
                    endured 'the winter of his discontent' with commendable fortitude, as well as
                    the 'wear and tear' of conscience and political consistency, to which he had
                    been subjected by the Free Soilers; and now we shall see what 'legal and constitutional
                    means' do mean, when the object is to exclude slavery from New 
                        Mexico
                     and 
                        California
                    ; whether it be the declaratory humbug proposed by some wise gentleman of the present
                    legislature simply saying, and no more, that 'the territory is now free
                    and ought to remain so'; or whether it be that bold and intelligible expression of the
                    illustrious Jefferson, in his memorable Ordinance that 'slavery shall never &t
                        there.'"24
            
            This split in the legislature between the Whigs and Democrats over the question of slavery extension
                    brought the controversy into the sphere of state politics. The day after the legislature convened,
                    Jacob B. Julian of 
                        Wayne
                     County introduced a joint resolution on the subject which instructed the senators and
                    representatives in Congress to pass a "Wilmot Proviso." The Democrats, hoping to
                    gain time to amend the resolution, refused to have it read a second time. This was accomplished by a
                    strict party vote. On Saturday of the same week, the Whigs again brought the resolution to the floor
                    of the legislature; again the Democrats prevented the Whigs 
                  
                     23
                            Indiana House Journal, 1848, pp. 18–19.
                  
                     24 Martin L. Bundy to 
                                New Castle
                             Courier, December 17, 1848, in Smith, "Letters of
                            Martin L. Bundy, 1848–49," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XXII, 88.
               
                     from instructing the committee to which the resolution had been
                    referred. Until the senatorial election was safely over, the Democrats thought it too dangerous to
                    bring the slavery extension issue onto the floor of the legislature.25
            
            Immediately following the election of Whitcomb, the committee reported on several joint resolutions
                    dealing with slavery, all variations on the same theme—the territories acquired by 
                        Mexico
                     were now free and ought to remain free, The committee, which was packed with Democrats,
                    argued that it was more expedient for Congress to pass a declaratory resolution than a prohibitory
                    law: either would serve the same practical purpose of deterring slaveholders from carrying slaves
                    into the territories, but a resolution would be much less offensive to the South than a Wilmot
                    Proviso. The committee took the position that: "while a prohibitory law is the appropriate
                    form, in the we of slave territory, as for example, the North Western Territory, a declaratory
                    resolution is the proper one in the case of free territory, like New 
                        Mexico
                     and 
                        California
                    , in the first case, slavery has to be excluded, in the second, it has no existence, and
                    if any action be necessary, it can be only a public declaration of that fact, from an authorized
                        source."26
            
            After voting down a motion to recommit with a proviso, the joint resolution passed the House by a
                    vote of 80 to 16. The minority was represented by those who could not compromise their views on the
                    question. Twelve of those dissenters had previously voted for the proviso resolution.17
            
            After a joint resolution had passed the Senate with amendments, it was laid on the table in the House
                    where it seems to have remained until the legislature adjourned, for there is no record of further
                    action concerning the resolution in the legislative records.
            The legislature's actions show the effects of the reshuffling of the political cards after
                    the election of 1848. The Free Soil flurry of the past summer, although of small proportions,
                    continued to blow, ruffling the electorate, and party politicians had to be extremely careful, lest
                    it get out of hand and create havoc in the party organization. If it could be kept under control,
                    there was the possibility of political capital in the Free Soil issue for the vote-getting
                    politicians of the state. There 
                  
                     25
                            Indiana House Journal, 1848, pp. 11, 12, 56–57.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., 88.
                  
                     27
                     Ibid., 142–43.
               
                     seemed also to be a spontaneity in the antislavery attitudes of
                    the Hoosier which made caution expedient.
            The Democracy in Indiana, in its new position as the Party out of power nationally, was rather quick
                    to utilize the antislavery feeling in the state. Early in 1849, the party began testing a new
                    formula. The 
                        Goshen
                    
                    Democrat, as quoted in the Indiana State Sentinel, claimed that
                    the election of Taylor had made the extension of slavery possible, and hinted that the Whigs and
                    slaveholders had formed an alliance. The logical move, the observation continued, would be for the
                    Indiana Democrats and Free Soilers to wash their hands of such interests and combinations.28 The Democracy, for political purposes at least, was ready to cast off from
                    its national partners and become a sectional party representing more local interests, and the Free
                    Soilers were invited to join it. The result was that at the Democratic state convention in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , this plank was inserted in its platform: "New 
                        Mexico
                     and 
                        California
                     are in fact and in law free Territories, it is the duty of Congress to prevent the
                    introduction of slavery within their limits."29 The convention
                    nominated for governor Joseph A. Wright, a onetime bitter opponent of the proviso, who was now a
                    moderate on the issue. Wright, the church leader and temperance advocate as well as
                    colonization-society leader, varied his tune to meet the situation.
            The Indiana, and Northwest, Democrats, feeling that the selection of Cass solved the territorial
                    question, turned their attention to the problem of winning back the party deserters of 1848. With
                    this in mind, John L. Robinson, in Congress, attacked his southern colleagues and became a supporter
                    of the Wilmot Proviso. The Jesse Bright lieutenant boasted that he had voted to strike out the
                    slavery proviso in the 
                        Oregon
                     Bill and that he would have done the same in the case of New 
                        Mexico
                     and 
                        California
                    ; now that he was compelled to act, there was only one way open—to favor the
                    exclusion of slavery. Since this solution was unacceptable to the Northwest: "Hereafter he
                    should give no such vote. He would at any time vote for organizing these Territories with the Wilmot
                    Proviso 
                  
                     28
                            Indiana State Sentinel, January 2, 1849, quoted in William O. Lynch,
                            "Anti-Slavery Tendencies of the Democratic Party of the Northwest,
                            1848–1850," 
                                Mississippi
                            
                            Valley of the Historical Review (Cedar Rapids, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1914-), XI, (1924–1925), 328.
                  
                     29
                            National Era, January 25, 1849, quoted in Smith, The Liberty
                                and Free soil Parties in the Northwest, 188.
               
                     extended over them. He had opposed legislating on the subject;
                    but his objections were defeated and cancelled; the South themselves had brought the question here;
                    they must now abide its settlement by Congress."30
            
            Another congressman, William W. Wick, observed the changing political tide and decided not to seek
                    re-election to the House. He informed his constituency: "Letters from many of you
                    … admonish me that your representative in Congress must no longer vote as I have
                    heretofore voted—some insisting that it is evident that the people of the South are not
                    so earnest in their opposition to the Wilmot Proviso, or other equivalent measure as their
                    politicians have asserted, and more declaring in favor of the propriety and justice of passing the
                    same through Congress, by way of forcing General Taylor into a candor which you think he disregarded
                    when a candidate, and by way of imposing on him, as President, the responsibility which, as a
                    candidate, he dodged."31
            
            Graham N. Fitch of 
                        Logansport
                    , another Democratic congressman, saw fit to attack his southern brethren: "We
                    of the North were willing to make a partial sacrifice of feeling to preserve our ranks unbroken, and
                    thus continue the supremacy in our national councils of these great principles for which we have
                    contended. But how with the South? Professed Democrats there deserted us by the thousands,
                    permitting us to be defeated in States upon which we surely relied and giving us others by such
                    meager majorities that the moral effect was that of a defeat. And why this desertion? Not because of
                    the political principles of the opposing candidate, General Taylor were more consonant with their
                    views, but because he was one of themselves a slaveholder; and they knew that under his
                    administration their 'peculiar institution' would be fostered and extended.
                    They sacrificed principles to slavery. And shall we now reward them for their … desertion
                    of us, our Candidate and our principles? Never! Again the representatives of the South in Congress
                    encouraged by the late Presidential election, aided by a Southern President—elect, and by
                    Northern 'dough-face' Whigs have during the past session evinced a
                    determination to permit the passage of no Territorial bill which did not extend slavery….
                    We can meet them in no 
                  
                     30
                            Congressional Globe, 30 Cong., 2 sess., 54–65.
                  
                     31
                            Indiana State Sentinel, March 17, 1849.
               
                     other way than by firm determination to prohibit its
                        introduction."22
            
            While the Indiana Democrats were accusing their southern colleagues of party disloyalty for the sake
                    of their peculiar institutions, they hoped to lure those of Free Soil tendencies back into the
                    party. It is doubtful if the Democratic leaders believed that they could capture the abolitionist
                    core of the Free Soil party—they were interested in the fringe group of ex-Whigs and
                    ex-Democrats. Compounded of party discontent as well as political expediency, this move of the
                    Democrats to proselyte the Free Soilers became more and more vigorous, and soon was so filled with
                    antislavery sentiment that the Whigs denounced their opponents for this rather strange turn in the
                    political scene. Said the State Journal of its Democratic rival: "The Sentinel now begins to talk of 'freedom' and
                    'southern dictation' as glibly as though to such language it had long been
                    accustomed. It does not sound beautifully from the lips of those who bowed so submissively to
                    'Southern dictation' and supported Mr. Polk for the Presidency—and
                    who bowed still lower to the same dictation when they supported General Cass, who sold himself to
                    the South! Then how harmoniously it sounds from those who aided in annexing 
                        Texas
                     to the Union, with territory out of which to make four more Slave States! They talk of
                    'Southern dictation' who have been its most abject worshippers, and now ask to
                    be thought sincere."33
            
            The following day, the Democratic organ explained its stand: "No matter how derelict the
                    Democratic party may have been in the past—even if all the Journal alleges were
                    true—now it has taken ground for freedom … why should it be assailed?
                    … Why can not it expand its grasp sufficiently wide upon this question to take in all the people of the West, who begin to feel upon their own limbs, the galling
                    shackles of Southern slavery?"34
            
            The appeals of both parties to the wanderers of 1848, even in such strong Free Soil sections as 
                        Lafayette
                    , were bringing the strays back into the fold. As a result, the Free Soilers made no
                    party nominations in 1849, "inasmuch as both the Democratic and Whig candidates in answer
                    to letters of 
                  
                     32
                     Ibid., June 2, 1849.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., July 11, 1849.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., July 12, 1849.
               
                     inquiry declared themselves in favor of the Wilmot Proviso,
                    prohibition of the slave trade in the District of Columbia, and the removal of the seat of the
                    Federal Government to a Free State."35
            
            The Whigs were determined to bring in their share of the vote. As the party in power nationally, they
                    found themselves being attacked as the party of the slaveholder. In an attempt to remove the stigma
                    of their peculiar political position, the Whigs began to ridicule the Democracy's Free
                    Soil sentiment. Schuyler Colfax, during the congressional campaign of 1849, warned his readers that
                    northern Democratic Free Soilism was a mere dragnet for Locofocoism, and the State
                        Journal raised the question of gain in voting Free Soil: "By doing so you may
                    prevent the election of men who agree with you on every single political question, including the
                    question you place above all others. Is it the part of wisdom thus to act?"36 The problem resolved itself again into the matter of trying to hold divergent forces
                    together. The Hoosier Whigs were now feeling the sectional pull in the national party.
            An interesting situation developed as a result of party discontent. Caleb B. Smith and his
                    brother-in-law, Samuel W. Parker, both ardent supporters of Taylor in 1848, had long been the Whig
                    rulers in the Whitewater Valley, a 
                        Quaker
                     stronghold. Smith, in 1849, hoped for an appointment in the new Whig administration,
                    and although he was one of those frequently mentioned for a cabinet position, he was passed by.
                    Whether it was a result of this disappointment, or whether railroad building offered him a brighter
                    future is not known, but at any rate, he withdrew from politics. As a result, Smith's
                    brother-in-law, Parker, became the Whig candidate in the district for Congress.
            Parker's opponent was George W. Julian, who represented a coalition of Independent Whigs,
                    Free Soilers, and Democrats. Julian, a former Whig, had been socially as well as politically
                    ostracized by his erstwhile friends after his Free Soil venture the previous year. He was deserted
                    by even his brother, who dissolved their law partnership during the hot campaign summer and joined
                    those who hurled charges of abolitionism at Julian.
            
               
                  35
                        
                            Cincinnati
                        
                        Globe, July 26, 1849, quoted in Smith, The Liberty and Free Soil
                            Parties in the Northwest, 190.
               
                  36 Quoted in Smith, The Liberty and Free Soil. Parties in the
                            Northwest, 189; see also Smith, "Schuyler Colfax," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIV, 272.
            
            
            Thus the campaign was carried on by Democrats, who could not hope to win by themselves, joined with
                    Free Soilers and independent Whigs. The canvass revived all the campaign oratory of 1848. Parker,
                    the Whig opponent, attempted to outdistance Julian by declaring that he was no
                    "yearling"; he was an abolitionist of twenty-years standing. When the ballots were
                    counted, the fusion candidate, Julian, had won by 153 votes.37
            
            The significance of this campaign lay in its illustration of how the efforts of the politically
                    discontented were able to overturn a political stronghold. The Taylor Whigs alone were left in the
                    party fold, while those unwilling to follow its leadership took refuge in a coalition that was more
                    acceptable to the Hoosier political climate. The national party thus did not satisfy local
                    requirements. Whether either the Whig remnant or the coalition would be as strong and as durable as
                    the original remained to be tested. At any rate, the split had made it possible for the Whitewater
                    Democrats, who in the past had had little vote-getting success, to get into power. The antislavery
                    issue had weakened the opposition.
            In southern Indiana, a situation developed at 
                        Cannelton
                     which also illustrated the local as well as the national dilemma of the Whigs. In 1849
                    a cotton mill was founded in this river town which was expected to link the West and the South
                    together: the factory would utilize southern raw materials and western resources. Among the
                    investors were planters from 
                        Louisiana
                    , and capitalists from the East and 
                        Louisville
                    . The incorporators were Salmon P. Chase of 
                        Ohio
                     and Senator Charles T. James of 
                        Rhode Island
                    , and the stockholders included the Right Reverend Leonidas Polk of 
                        Louisiana
                     and Maunsel White, a partner of J. B. DeBow in his Review. Optimists
                    of the day predicted that the seat of cotton manufacture would move from New 
                        England
                     to southern Indiana where coal was plentiful and food cheap. The 
                        Cannelton
                    
                    Economist was also founded in 1849, with the express purpose of forwarding the
                    cause of the new industrialism. Its prospectus described it as a "weekly journal devoted to
                    the establishment of manufactures in the South and West, to agriculture and the cause of
                        labour."38 In a day and age when such a 
                  
                     37 Grace Julian Clarke George W. Julian. (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1923), 79–86; George W. Julian, Political
                                Recollections (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 72; Smith, The Liberty and Free Soil Parties in the
                                Northwest, 190–91, 105.
                  
                     38 Thomas J. de la Hunt, P Country: A History
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 130–35; American Cannel Coal Company, 
                        
                                    Cannelton
                                    Perry County
                                , Indiana (
                                Louisville
                            , 1850), passim.
               
                     position was the exception rather than the rule, the Economist claimed political neutrality. Political parties, it declared, had the
                    same principles but used different means in order to achieve their ends, thus creating
                    "illiberality." Furthermore, "the great interests of the South and West
                    should not be held in bondage for the mere sake of party
                        gratification."39
            
            The political neutrality of the Economist was not maintained for long. By July,
                    Elisha 
                        Huntington
                    , a stockholder in the mill and an ardent Whig, was writing to the newspaper expressing
                    his political views, with which James 
                        Mason
                    , the editor of the Economist, agreed. He declared that Free Soil-ism
                    was abolitionism, and although he deprecated the extension of slavery, he saw no reason why the
                    southern states should be dragooned into the same opinion! On the other hand, he stated:
                    "If the South desires by any measures to extend slavery beyond its present limits, she is
                    not only unwise, but is destined to a bitter disappointment—the West will resist it with
                    the same energy that she would any interferences by the North with Southern institutions, and
                    Southern interests."40
            
            This journal demanded that Indiana's representatives be practical men, concerned with more
                    than just intrigues for the making of presidents, or discussions of abstract principles. After the
                    congressional election of 1849, the Economist stated its unwillingness to bring
                    the sectional aspects of slavery into the political controversies of the day: "nothing but
                    evil can come out of the agitation of that matter, but we have the fullest confidence, that be it
                    settled as it may, the tranquillity of the country will not be disturbed. In our view, it is at most
                    a wicked abstraction, out of which no good can ever come."41
            
            Businessmen who were hopeful of attracting manufacturing to Indiana, dependent on capital from other
                    sections, were not particularly interested in political gains, and the agitation over slavery was to
                    them a hindrance, so they chose to dismiss it as a political abstraction. These men were members of
                    a branch of the national Whigs of Indiana. In addition to them, there were others, including some
                    Democrats, scattered about the state who were also unwilling to become involved in political
                    sectionalism.
            The Whitewater Valley and 
                        Cannelton
                     situations illustrate the opposing reactions to the antislavery movement that resulted
                        
                  
                     39
                            
                                Cannelton
                            , Indiana, Economist, May 6, 1849.
                  
                     40
                     Ibid, July 28, 1849.
                  
                     41
                     Ibid, November 10, 1849.
               
                     when a national issue was considered in a local situation.
                    Instead of knitting the party together, the national questions pulled the party apart, sapping its
                    inner strength.
            To a varying degree, all the parties had taken an excursion into antislavery, with varying degrees of
                    success. The Free Soil party, which in 1848 in a national election had garnered 8,100 votes, found
                    itself out-promised and out—bargained by the Whigs and the Democrats in 1849. The
                    Democrats had managed to win the governorship with a candidate who had previously attacked the
                    Wilmot Proviso, and it had also gathered in nine of the ten congressional seats. The Whigs were
                    reduced to one congressman, Edward W. McGaughey, an old-time campaigner, who was able to defeat
                    Grafton M. Cookerly, a Democrat of 
                        Terre Haute
                    .42
            
            By the time the campaigns, and the year, ended, the Slavery question had been discussed widely both
                    on the stump and in the press. Some Whigs still wanted to avoid the "abstraction"
                    which they felt could only lead to trouble; others felt that the party had not gone far enough in
                    taking a stand to remedy the evil of slavery. As for the Democrats, they had used their promises to
                    make rubble of the state Free Soil party. They, however, had not shed any light on the matter of
                    interpreting the phrase, "every legal and constitutional means," and Martin L.
                    Bundy, who late the year before had expressed concern over these words, probably was still wondering
                    what the Democrats meant by them. Just as the political year had begun with the
                    governor's message, so it ended with these words: "The question is now presented
                    to the American people, whether this territory shall remain free. It cannot be doubted that the
                    response of the people of Indiana to this momentous question, will be in favor of freedom. Whilst we
                    are in favor of freedom, let us exercise that forbearance towards our political brethren of the
                    slave States of this Union, which characterizes the conduct of the patriot and statesman.
                    Nevertheless, it is our imperative duty to assert our rights as members of the same great family,
                    and manfully resist, by all legal and constitutional means, the further advancement of slavery into
                    territory belonging to the General Government. That Congress possesses this power does not admit of
                    a doubt, and the only remaining question to be determined is, whether it is expedient to exercise
                    that right. To decide this question affirmatively, the reflecting mind need only glance over the
                        
                  
                     42
                            Whig Almanac and 
                                    United States
                                 Register for 1850 (
                                New York
                            , 1850), 48.
               
                     history of our beloved country—the rise and progress
                    in the arts and sciences—in manufactures, mechanics, internal improvements, and every
                    other great element of social and political happiness in the States of this Union, but too plainly
                    admonish us that bounds should be prescribed to the baleful influence of human slavery."43 Governor Paris A. Dunning's feelings for the "great
                    family" were being buffeted about by the twin dilemmas of "expediency"
                    and the "reflecting mind" on the one hand, and "forbearance towards his
                    political brethren" and "the imperative duty to assert our rights" on the
                    other, posing a difficult problem for a federal state as well as for Dunning.44
            
            The disturbing influence of the territorial question invaded the halls of the new Congress early in
                    1850, and the Hoosiers, along with their political brethren north and south, anxiously awaited the
                    outcome. A speakership and clerk fight in the House held up the organization of Congress, serving as
                    a dire warning to all parties that confusion existed throughout the nation. The southern members of
                    Congress were under surveillance by the Northwest as to their future actions. To their
                    embarrassment, the Democrats who had been denounced by the Whigs as supporters of the old
                    "dough face," Cass, now saw Taylor take the noninterference position as to slavery
                    in the territories. The Free Soilers for their part were quick to claim that the Wilmot Proviso was
                    "ignominiously surrendered to the slave power by its professed champions and
                        friends."45
            
            Early in 1850, the New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Democrat expressed surprise at the position taken by the 
                        Washington
                    
                    Union in its declaration that 
                        California
                     did not have the right to proceed with the formation of a state government without the
                    sanction of Congress. The Democrat used these words to denounce the South:
                    "The entire Democracy of the North who supported Gen. Cass for the Presidency, will
                    certainly be astonished by the Union on this subject. If it reflects the
                    sentiments, or foreshadows the course, of the Southern democratic members of Congress, they will
                    have just ground to complain of the breach of faith which it involves. During the Presidential
                    contest of 1848, and since, the Democrats of the North have contended, in opposition to Whigs,
                    free-soilers, and abolitionists, that the question of slavery was one which should be left 
                  
                     43
                            Indiana Documentary Journal, 1849–1860, pp. 88–89.
                  
                     44 Paris A. Dunnin a Democrat, was the interim governor following the
                            election of James Witcomb to the 
                                United States
                             Senate. Joseph A. Wright then assumed office late in 1849 following the October
                            elections.
                  
                     45
                     Indiana True Democrat, January 23, 1850.
               
                     to the people of the territories themselves; and in this their
                    brethren of the South apparently acquiesced. It is true that victory failed to perch on our
                    standard, but this in no degree lessened the obligations by which the democracy of one section of
                    the Union was bound to that of the other…. We ask in all sincerity if this is the
                    treatment which the democracy of the North deserve from their brethren of the South, by whom they
                    have stood and for whom they have fought so long? When the question of the annexation of 
                        Texas
                     was agitated, did they use a subterfuge and pettifogging to keep her out of the Union.
                    … The terms on which the democratic party of the nation sustained the 
                        Baltimore
                     nominee and the 
                        Baltimore
                     platform have been religiously complied with by the Democracy of the North. If others
                    see proper to violate the compact, let the wrong rest on the proper shoulders."46
            
            At the same time, the Sentinel, after airing the doubts that existed among the
                    Democrats over the impending 
                        California
                     question, proceeded to vent its wrath on the Whigs in the state and the nation:
                    "The two extremes of the state are only an illustration of the principles
                    of the Federal Whig party. They have faces for all latitudes. Slavery men here, abolitionists there.
                    No common bond of union but love of power, the hankering after the loaves and fishes. When in, the
                    very elements composing it, clash—nor will they, nor can they, mix, more than oil and
                    water. Rotten in every sense, as the leaders are, it is impossible that it should be
                        otherwise."47
            
            The Hoosier Democrats admitted their concern over the "oil and water" in their own
                    party as the territorial issue came to the political foreground. In view of the Democratic drive in
                    the Northwest in 1849 to bring the antislavery element back into the party fold, it was a case of
                    the kettle calling the pot black. The most important development, however, was that during the
                    course of the political controversy, the Hoosiers revived and played up their distrust of their
                    southern colleagues, bringing up again the 
                        Texas
                     question of 1844 and reminding the southern wing of the party that it was not yet
                    forgiven for its failure to support Cass in 1848, to which the South countered by threatening to
                    abandon the principles of squatter sovereignty as it might apply to 
                        California
                    , thus giving warning that the western interests were again to be rebuked.
            
               
                  46 New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Democrat, January 16, 1860, quoted in Indiana State
                        Sentinel, January 31, 1850.
               
                  47
                  Indiana State Sentinel, January 31, 1850.
            
            
            Late in January, 1850, 
                        Clay
                     announced his compromise program. From 
                        South Bend
                    , Schuyler Colfax, a young Whig who represented the element opposed to the "old
                    Hunkers" of the party, expressed the typical Whig reluctance to accept 
                        Clay
                    's solution. He wrote that although he had generally agreed with the
                    "Noble Harry" in the past, he could not espouse 
                        Clay
                    's compromise resolutions. The difficulty of compromise in this quarter was
                    revealed in Colfax's statements: "Whether this glorious Union is, or is not, at
                    last to be wrecked upon the rocks around us—with men of principle, Honor must be
                    preserved. And in our poor judgment, these resolutions are the olive branch to the South but the
                    hyssop to the North."48
            
            In southern Indiana, Richard W. Thompson, who represented the old Whig element, was also fearful of
                    the 
                        Clay
                     measures. In a series of letters to the National Intelligencer signed
                    "Americus," Thompson declared that the measures were not as practicable as he
                    would like them to be. He, too, deplored the position taken by the South on 
                        California
                    . Thompson felt that the South had been right when it accepted the proposition that it
                    be allowed to do as it pleased as to slavery, but now, the South was wrong.49
            
            Both Colfax and Thompson favored President Taylor's course of action regarding the
                    compromise, a proposal which had aroused the southern congressmen to accuse the North of aggression.
            Politically, the Indiana Whigs and Democrats were not far apart on the subject of 
                        California
                    . Both agreed that 
                        California
                     should be admitted with her constitution as submitted by the people of the territory.
                    In Congress, Graham N. Fitch attacked the "super sensitiveness" of the South on
                    the issue and deplored its action in resisting the asked-for admission of 
                        California
                     whose constitution had been formed under the application of that doctrine and all
                    because her constitution prohibited slavery.50
            
            These were the initial reactions to the compromise proposals. The Indiana politicians had much to do
                    before "finality" could become an accepted fact back home in their constituencies.
                    The 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier spoke of "Southern Compromises" when it editorialized:
                    "Demand all, yield nothing, are the motives which govern our southern brethren, and 
                  
                     48
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                's Valley Register, February 7, 1850 quoted in Smith,
                            "Schuyler Colfax," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIV,
                            272.
                  
                     49
                            National Intelligencer, February 19, 1850.
                  
                     50
                            Congressional Globe, 31 Cong., 1 Sess, Appendix, 138–41.
               
                     they appear to be satisfied with nothing but an entire
                    concession to all they require." The Courier also charged the South with
                    abandoning J. W. Forney, the Democrat, in the congressional clerk election, ending with a warning
                    that southern behavior would force the North to a just consideration of its rights—at
                    least it should be entitled to an equal participation in the rights and benefits of the federal
                    government. "Possessing the strength it needs only an united action to make her power
                        felt."51
            
            Another expression of the growing feeling of strength in the North was made by the State
                        Sentinel, which declared it was willing to forgive the failure of the South to sustain the
                    northwestern Democracy in the 
                        Oregon
                     claims: "But on the new question, growing out of the
                    acquisition of vast free territories, acquired by war, between the Democracy of the free States and
                    their Southern allies, there lies a mighty question of public policy and human rights, involving
                    both an abandonment of conscientious scruples and of the cardinal principles of our own Declaration
                    of Independence. It is easy, therefore, to see that the true Democracy, both North
                    and South, will never yield to the unreasonable demand of less than 400,000 slaveholders of the
                    Union, against the convictions of right of more than sixteen millions of free white
                    citizens—and against the moral sentiment of the civilized world…. But they
                    will steadily and sternly resist all unjust claims to settle the free common inheritance with slave
                    laborers, to come into ruinous competition with their own labor…. They will resist to the
                    end—and resist at all hazards and successfully. It may be considered
                        singular by some, but we do cherish an idea, that the free
                    States,—the North and the West,—possess some rights under
                    the Constitution, as well as 
                        South Carolina
                    . If this be untrue or fanatical,—or if it be abolitionism, why then we have
                    got some new lessons in politics to learn…. We have never yet believed,
                    and do not yet begin to believe, that the entire origin, end and aim of the Federal Government was
                    Niggerism, either pro or con. The South has got its negroes: let the South keep them as long as she
                    desires to do so, but deliver us from them, either as freemen or slaves. The true question between
                    the North and the South does not wholly rest in this black point, however. The
                    'balance of political power in the Union' has quite as much to do with it,
                    though this may be chiefly desirable as a means of protection to the nigger 
                  
                     51
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Courier, quoted in the Indiana State Sentinel, February
                            14, 1850.
               
                     interest. The South always heretofore has held the reins of
                    actual power in the general government, and it is not surprising that she now beholds, the
                    'sceptre of power departing from Judah,' with painful emotion. Such however is
                    'manifest destiny,' and it cannot be averted, even by the desperate
                    alternative which some of her leaders propose, of a dissolution of the Union." The article
                    concluded by raising the question of whether the Democracy of Indiana and the Northwest would
                    foolishly resign its power into the hands of fanatics North and South.52
            
            With the recognition of its growing importance as a conciliatory force, the Northwest became more
                    conscious of its power. It no longer suffered under an attitude of neglect, nor cried for sympathy
                    and understanding as it had in the forties when such legislative matters as river and harbor bills
                    had been vetoed. Now the maturing Northwest was demanding its rights and felt that it had the
                    strength to carry out its will. As Jacob P. Chapman, the editor of the Sentinel,
                    expressed it, the Northwest would resist unjust claims made by any other section "and
                    resist at all hazards and Successfully."
            
            The Whig press also expressed this feeling that the West in the role of peacemaker stood apart from
                    the warring sections. Thompson cried that the West knew only union: "The West is willing to
                    trust both the North and South. Will not the North and South trust her? She will not suffer the
                    rights of either to be invaded."53
            
            The Economist, a newspaper that claimed political neutrality, but on occasion
                    leaned to the Whig point of view, also concerned itself with the politicians' quarrel
                    which it felt the people should know about: "Are the people prepared for a dissolution of
                    these States? Is the great West ready to be sold —her independence sacrificed and the
                    tree of her prosperity uprooted by men of extreme views either Northern or Southern? If the Union is
                    dissolved, whither is Indiana to go? And where shall we find 
                        Kentucky
                    ? Who is to have the 'Father of Waters'? and who the beautiful 
                        Ohio
                     whose placid surface never yet was stained with fraternal blood?
            "It is time that the West do something for the Union. She has everything at stake. The North
                    and the South are mad and apparently irreconcilable, but the West loves them both."54
            
            
               
                  52
                  Indiana State Sentinel, February 14, 1850.
               
                  53
                        National Intelligencer, February 28, 1850.
               
                  54
                        
                            Cannelton
                        , Indiana, Economist, March 2, 1850.
            
            
            After Congress had settled down to bargaining, and to listening to the pleas of those who felt a
                    solution could be reached, the Free Soil press, representing those who had been promised so much by
                    the politicians, raised its voice hopelessly. "Compromise, Compromise, is
                    the incessant cry. And is it any wonder that slavery should triumph when freedom has so many
                    betrayers. Never before in the history of this government has so much political faithlessness been
                        exhibited."55
            
            In Congress, the Indiana representatives felt their way cautiously about the territorial question.
                    Early in the session Fitch had attacked the southern members. Then Willis A. Gorman spoke against
                    the Wilmot Proviso and claimed that it was based upon the wrong assumptions—it was up to
                    the people to decide what was best for their own welfare. He claimed that his constituents wanted
                    the admission of 
                        California
                    , the settlement of the 
                        Texas
                     boundary, the organization of the territories with all their rights of self-government
                    left to the people, and the abolition of the slave trade in the District of Columbia.56
            
            The sole Whig member of the delegation, Edward W. McGaughey, seemed to feel that his presence would
                    not help stop the threatened dissolution of the Union, for he wrote to an old Hoosier
                    Jacksonian-turned-Whig, Samuel Judah, of 
                        Knox
                     County: "We are still engaged on the Slavery question—The truth is,
                    Congress will do nothing this session and yet it will be one of the longest that has ever sat since
                    the foundation of the Govt I intend to return home about the 10th of next month—I will
                    pare [sic] off with some Southern Loco."67
            
            By early May, the Hoosier Senators had taken their position for compromise. Although senior Senator
                    Bright, a member of the committee of thirteen, did not choose to take the floor to express his views
                    at great length, he did claim that he was "willing to take a great middle conservative
                    course." This was a fairly typical reaction for many members of his party in the state and
                    also for many of the Whigs.
            After Jesse D. Bright's report of the committee, Michael C. Garber of the Courier in his native 
                        Madison
                     eulogized Bright's action thus: "he rises above party and sectional
                    influences…. We are for compromise. If that be lost, then we 
                  
                     55
                            Indiana True Democrat, March 20, 1850.
                  
                     56
                            Congressional Globe, 31 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix, 318–21.
                  
                     57 Edward W. McGaughey to Samuel Judah, 
                                Washington
                            , April 18, 1860, in Judah Papers, Indiana University Library, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     are for the admission of 
                        California
                     with her present boundaries and constitution, and for Territorial Government, for 
                        Utah
                     and New 
                        Mexico
                    
                    with the Proviso. If the South is not willing to let the question remain as it is
                    now fixed in the constitution; but must seek to amend it, it is the duty of the North to make the
                    amendments on the side of liberty and equality; if there must be a new compact between slavery and
                    freedom, the former must be told that no more slave territory, under any circumstances can be
                    admitted; that not a foot of territory now free shall ever be polluted by the touch of slavery. The
                    compact as it is: but if it must be changed, make it safer for freedom."58
            
            Later in the same month, the Courier again stated its position. It did not view the
                    compromise effort as a mere party measure: "We wish to say that we are bound to no party,
                    sect, or man. We advocated non-intervention in 1848, because it was right. If right then, it is
                    certainly right now; and we are not inclined to abandon a principle adopted in 1848, particularly
                    when that principle is now fortified by the support of such statesmen as 
                        Clay
                     and Webster, in addition to that of the Illustrious Democratic statesmen of the
                    age." Yet it was not ready to adopt the southern position regarding the Proviso. If the
                    constitution were to be changed, "we wish it to be so changed that there will be no doubt
                    of the power of Congress to prevent the spread of a 'great social evil'
                    deplored by all good men. If this be Whiggery, then we are a Whig, and a supporter of a Whig
                        measure."59
            
            Opposition was expressed, however, by the Free Soil contingent who claimed that Bright and Whitcomb
                    had gone over to the enemy: "The South holds slavery as the ne plus ultra
                    of qualification of their Representatives, Why should the West, the child of freedom, not demand
                    similar pledges on the cause of human rights? Why should the Davis, Bells, Clays, Butlers of the
                    South assume dictatorship … and the North and West sit cowardly and still under the
                    Slaveholders lash? One reason is, because the South feels the interest of the purse in the
                    protection of Slavery—The Pistol and Bowie knife are sent with them to the halls of
                        Congress."60
            
            
               
                  58
                        
                            Madison
                        
                        Courier, May 16, 1850.
               
                  59
                        Ibid., May 24, 1850. The Economist also supported the
                        committee of thirteen. "Nothing could be presented on which Mr. Hale, Mr. Chase, or
                        Seward would vote…. But we confess we were not prepared to see such men as Berrien
                        and 
                            Mason
                         in opposition to what seems to us all that any Southern man can desire." 
                            Cannelton
                        , Indiana, Economist, May 18, 1850.
               
                  60
                        Indiana True Democrat, May 8, 1850.
            
            
            A few days later George W. Julian of the Whitewater Valley attacked the southern aggressors who were
                    stretching the compromises of the constitution over a vast area in order to protect slavery.
                    Parties, he declared, in order to maintain their national organizations intact clung to the old
                    issues of the bank and the tariff, but when the question of slavery was made the issue there was but
                    one bond of union that would hold together on the northern and southern sections of each party and
                    that was subserviency on the part of the North to the slave interests.61
            
            Back home in the Whitewater district, Julian's constituents were becoming aroused on the
                    subject of the compromise. The 
                        Wayne
                     County Democrats met and passed resolutions opposing the extension of slavery into
                    territory then free, and favoring admission of 
                        California
                     "unconnected with any other subject."62
            
            A week later the Free Soil men of "Old 
                        Wayne
                    " met and they too resolved that 
                        California
                     should be free; they went on record as being opposed to the principle of
                    nonintervention and in favor of the Ordinance of 1787.65
            
            All over the state, political opinions and ideas were being aired which were indicative of the rising
                    tide of public sentiment. For example, in 
                        Madison
                     at a dinner held in honor of Governor John J. Crittenden of 
                        Kentucky
                    , the guest of the evening made a speech which the local press reported thus:
                    "He said the Union was safe as long as Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                     would shut out the political surveyors, who wish to run the line that is to separate
                    this great, this glorious Union."64
            
            The Sentinel played an interesting role at this particular time in reporting the
                    reactions in Indiana to the compromise. In the midst of the controversy, the Chapmans, who had so
                    vigorously advanced the cause of the New Democracy in Indiana, sold the paper to William J. Brown
                    and his son Austin. Congressman "Done Brown," a great political friend of Bright,
                    had played both ends against the middle in making promises to southern and northern Democrats alike
                    during the speakership fight in 1849, only to be caught in his political game.65
                    The Senator was the financial backer of the transaction, 
                  
                     61
                            Congressional Globe, 31 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix, 579.
                  
                     62
                            Indiana True Democrat, June 5, 1850.
                  
                     63
                            Ibid, June 12, 1850.
                  
                     64
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, May 28, 1850.
                  
                     65 The Chapmans had agreed to sell the Sentinel to
                            E. W. H. Ellis and John Spann, both faithful members of the Wright wing. Jacob Page Chapman,
                            himself, occasionally sided with Wright, which put him on the 
               
                     according to the correspondence of father and son, and he sent
                    his instructions from 
                        Washington
                     to Austin in 
                        Indianapolis
                     who edited the paper. It was the father who determined the policy of the Sentinel. For example, he wrote, "I shall send you occasionally an editorial
                    article without any explanation which you will know how to insert without further
                    instructions." The elder Brown also sent copy to the printer, Nathaniel Bolton, husband of
                    the Hoosier poetess, for insertion. Directed from 
                        Washington
                    , and certainly according to the wishes of Bright, the Sentinel
                    followed the dictates of the Democracy.66 The reshuffling of ownership resulted
                    in a stronger policy. Within a short time the Sentinel declared that:
                    "Now let no democratic free soiler go off in a tangent. With them we intend to have no
                    quarrel, so long as they vote the democratic ticket, support Democratic men and Democratic measures,
                    stand by the old time honored Democratic platform without attempting to tear up the planks and
                    narrow the dimensions, so that a northern sectional party can only stand on it. The Democratic party
                    is a national party, and we shall quarrel with the man who attempts to make it sectional.
            "We are opposed to extending Slavery into any territory now free, and although we may differ
                    with many democrats, good and true upon the mode by which this is to be done—with such we
                    shall reason and not quarrel." Any man who believed in a "higher law" or
                    opposed a fugitive slave act was an abolitionist, not a Democrat. "Take your seats in the
                    Omnibus with the Southern Disunionists," cried the Sentinel.67
            
            The hope for a solution to the compromise problem on a political level continued to be expressed by
                    the politicians and the press. One of the first politicians to speak was Cyrus Dunham, Democratic
                    representative from southeastern Indiana, who early in June claimed that while Congress had the
                    power to limit slavery, it might not be expedient for it to do so; he also claimed that he was as
                    conciliatory as a Hoosier dared to be.68 Nathaniel Albertson, Democratic
                    congressman 
                  opposite side of the political fence from Jesse D. Bright. Shortly after Senator Brown
                            's son Austin had discussed the proposed sale of the paper with local politicians
                            and lawyers, the Browns were announced as the new owners. There is some evidence that the
                            intended transaction was blocked to prevent the Sentinel from falling into
                            the hands of the Wright faction. William J. Brown to Austin H. Brown, 
                                Washington
                            , May 22, 1850, Austin H. Brown Papers, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     66
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            , Indiana Register, December 22, 1849. William J. Brown to
                            Austin H. Brown, 
                                Washington
                            , May 28, 31, and June 8, 1850, Austin H. Brown Papers.
                  
                     67 Quoted in the Indiana True Democrat, June 19,
                            1850.
                  
                     68
                            Congressional Globe, 31 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix,
                        836–43.
               
                     from New 
                        Albany
                     on the 
                        Ohio
                     River, in a letter to his constituents, informed them that he too was ready to accept
                    the compromise. He declared that he went for the principles of 1848. If his constituents, he
                    concluded, desired a "one-idea" representative, they had selected the wrong
                        man.69 In the Senate, Whitcomb, ever cautious, tacked to the political
                    breezes as he sensed their direction. He wrote the editor of the Sentinel, Austin
                    Brown: "Not long since I spoke to the extent of a column or two on the question raised
                    incidentally—whether Southern Senators would not have voted for the admission of 
                        California
                     if her constitution had permission. I prefer that you should not republish these
                    remarks for the present."70 And Bright, in one of his rather few
                    remarks on the floor of the Senate, declared: "Sir, I am not mistaken when I declare that
                    the sound-thinking, practical men of the great and growing West of all parties, are tired of this
                    eternal agitation."71
            
            As for the Whigs, Thompson addressed a letter on June 5 to Indiana's senators approving
                    their support of 
                        Clay
                    's compromise measures. He told them that he still preferred
                    Taylor's plan but felt it his duty to support any proposition that would bring peace and
                    tranquillity to the nation. As a clincher for his argument, he defended the Fugitive Slave Law at
                    great length.72 Even Samuel W. Parker, who in the canvass against Julian had
                    claimed that he had been an original Garrisonian, was now reluctant to take a definite stand by
                    expressing his antislavery views. To the charge that he had once espoused emancipation of the slaves
                    in his political past, Parker threatened, "If you make the allegation again I will cut your
                    God damned throat."73
            
            The 
                        Cannelton
                    
                    Economist suggested that the full measure be taken against the
                    extremists—exile. It declared that disunionists "cannot, when known and
                    understood, live in Indiana 
                  
                     69
                            Indiana State Sentinel, July 11, 1850.
                  
                     70 James Whitcomb to Austin H. Brown, 
                                Washington
                            , August 29, 1850, Austin H. Brown Papers.
                  
                     71
                            Congressional Globe, 31 Cong., 1 Sess., 1201–2. There seems to
                            have been an element of truth in the words of the Senator, for others during the summer
                            expressed a desire to follow a conservative course. Each individual, however, had his own
                            definition of "conservative," which depended on his own interpretation of
                            an "extremist." For example, the 
                                Nashville
                             convention held in June was termed by some to have had principles as black as
                            those of the fanatics of the North. 
                                Cannelton
                            , Indiana, Economist, June 15, 1850.
                  
                     72 Charles Roll Colonel Dick Thompson: The Persistent
                                Whig (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1948), 141.
                  
                     73
                            Indiana True Democrat, July 10, 1850.
               
                     and they ought not be permitted to live within the limits of
                    the Republic."74
            
            During the long summer of 1850, while these politicians and the press were laboring over the more
                    practical aspects of a legal solution to the questions that threatened the federal union, there was
                    a broadening impulse felt by Hoosiers who contemplated the wider implications of the dilemma. It
                    would seem that some Hoosier leaders, political and otherwise, tried to place the situation in a
                    broader context.
            Governor Wright, for example, was always politically conscious, but his speech at the inauguration of
                    the Reverend Lucien Berry as President of Indiana Asbury University was at least novel in approach.
                    He urged the faculty of the University to quell the disconcerting course that sectionalism was
                    taking: "I trust you will inculcate in the minds of the young men who shall come hither for
                    instruction, a burning love for the union of these States. It is too common an Occurrence to see our
                    young men in the North and South on examination days, and at school exhibitions, engaged in
                    rehearsing the beauties of this, or the evils of that section of the country, fostering in the
                    youthful mind a bigoted love for this or that section of the country, at the expense of the other. I
                    have no patience to sit down and hear men talk about this or that section of the Union, or of the
                    peculiar framework of society in this or that State, in opposition to those of other States. This
                    continually speaking of Northern interest, Southern interest, Northern population, and Southern
                    population, is an evil that demands a remedy. This Union is not composed of a few cities in the
                    North and South; the people of this Union consist of something else than iron mills and wooden
                    clocks in the North or of rice and cotton bales in the South. We of the West have something to say
                    as to who and what compose this union…. The time has now arrived when the influence of
                    the West, in her conservative spirit, should be felt in the settlement of all our national
                    questions…. Differing as we do in soil, climate, and productions—in habits,
                    manners, and social relations—in local and sectional interest—we can only be
                    one people upon the principles of concession and conciliation…. May you renounce all
                    sectional parties—sternly rebuke any and every effort to form a northern
                        party!"75 After diagnoaing the ills of the union in a broad
                    context, the governor offered 
                  
                     74
                            
                                Cannelton
                            , Indiana, Economist, August 10, 1850.
                  
                     75 Joseph A. Wright, An Address Delivered at the
                                Installation of Rev. L. W. Berry, D.D, as President of the Indiana Asbury University,
                                July 16,1850 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1850), 14–16.
               
                     a political remedy that was a mere palliative for the spreading
                    infection of sectionalism.
            In a similar fashion, the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier, fast pulling away from the Bright Democrats and their party solution to
                    the sectional problem, expressed deep fears over the safety of the union, sensing that more than
                    national political organizations were being endangered when it declared that: "Those who
                    look upon the slavery question now at issue between the North and the South as a mere temporary
                    struggle for political quality or political ascendancy, and Abolition as a hobbyhorse, on which to
                    ride into power, and afterwards thrown aside as a piece of lumber, no longer serviceable or useful
                    take but a superficial view of a subject that involves the most momentous consequence, to present
                    and future generations. Not only is the Union staked on its issue, but other results, if possible
                    still more vital to the peace and happiness of the 
                        United States
                     and of the world at large. It involves a war of extermination between two great races
                    of mankind; it involves dissentions [sic] in the Christian Church, highly
                    injurious to its salutary influence, if not fatal it [sic] its existence." The Courier went on to sound this warning to the Hoosier citizenry: "The
                    consideration of the influence of slavery is much more extended than politicians generally view it,
                    and should command serious attention from the Free Laborers of the North."75
            
            A correspondent of George W. Julian also expressed concern over the general state of tension created
                    by the politicians. Although this gentleman had left Indiana to move West, his attitude is worthy of
                    notice: "Politics engross but little of my attention. To me this spectacle has often been a
                    melancholy one to see communities agitated almost to moral insanity by party spirit, when perhaps
                    the questions at issue were not calculated, in the event of their being carried either way to
                    materially affect the interests of a single individual. At the present day I see, or think I see a
                    strange spirit of infatuation dementing thousands in both North and South. I conceive the cause of
                    the whole commotion to be puritanical cant in the north and gross ignorance in the south. The silly
                    cry of 'Northern Aggression' is, as you have clearly shown, so unfounded and
                    foolish that none but a man totally ignorant of p& history, would be fool enough to believe
                    that ever the north has encroached in the least on southern rights. Many of the southern members
                    have a constituency on whom the light 
                  
                     76
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, August 2, and June 18, 1850.
               
                     of education and intelligence has rarely begun to dawn. In the
                    midst of these local Egypts the cry of northern aggressions may have its effect. The white slave of the south, whose fund of intelligence ranges little above the
                    'nigger' he drives is a fit subject to be led by the designing politician into
                    the belief of greatest absurdity … why contend for the Wilmot proviso when we all know 
                        California
                     can never be a slave country. Why keep up a useless ferment, a raging commotion about a
                    mere abstraction not connected with any practical result.… The mind of man is so
                    constituted that excitement, even from the most trivial cause prevents the judgment from exercising
                    its proper control."77 The unusual state of the body politic growing
                    out of the agitation aroused further comment: "Within the last five years, and more
                    particularly within the last year, unusual excitement and agitation have pervaded the minds of the
                    people—the whole body politic has been convulsed by the conflict of opinions, the
                    declaration and denial of rights. Men have acted as if mad, or laboring under the influence of some
                    strange delusion. Especially has this been the case with many persons living in the southern
                    portions of our Union, where the climate predisposes man to the enjoyment of leisure and the
                    quietness of repose."78
            
            These examples of the prevailing state of restlessness during the summer of 1850 indicated the
                    Hoosier politicians' need for a broader understanding of the growing disturbance. The
                    questions that were being raised in some men's minds were charged with what historians a
                    hundred years later would label "hyper-emotionalism." It is interesting to observe
                    that after the irritant which the politicians provided had induced the rash of disquieting opinions,
                    they were prepared to offer another application of the same remedy—by playing more
                    politics they hoped to allay the uncomfortableness felt by these observers who were afraid of the
                    future.
            Back in 
                        Washington
                    , when the provisions of the Compromise of 1850 finally came to a vote in Congress, five
                    of the members of the House accepted all of the provisions, four Hoosier representatives opposed the
                    Fugitive Slave Act, and McGaughey, the lone Hoosier Whig in Congress, supported all the provisions
                    of the bill except the 
                        Texas
                     boundary settlement. On the compromise as a whole, Julian still remained the sole
                    Hoosier radical in the House. Over in the Senate, Whitcomb 
                  
                     77 George Pattison to George W. Julian, Hardin, 
                                Calhoun County
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            , June 23, 1850, George W. Julian Papers, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     78
                            
                                Cannelton
                            , Indiana, Economist, August 24, 1850.
               
                     approved the bill completely, but Bright failed to vote on the
                    fugitive slave provisions, a fact which the Senator was called upon to explain in the ensuing
                    canvass. The voting revealed that it was the Fugitive Slave Law that proved the real stumbling block
                    for Indiana's congressmen.
            To a great degree, the popular press reaction to the compromise in the state followed the pattern
                    established by its representatives in Congress. The popular opposition to the entire compromise held
                    a minority position. The greatest protest that arose over the political settlement of the slavery
                    issue came from those who could not condone the Fugitive Slave Law. In this reaction, the Hoosiers
                    were not alone—they were merely voicing the general feeling of many in the Northwest. In
                    order to express their dissatisfaction more vociferously, meetings were held throughout the state
                    during which, for the moment at least, Whigs and Democrats saw eye to eye on the repugnant features
                    of the Fugitive Slave Law. At one such meeting in 
                        Greencastle
                    , as reported by the Indiana State Sentinel, it was resolved:
                    "That it was with pain we witnessed the fearful agitations through which we have just
                    passed. For ten months the national legislature was almost suspended, the wheels of government
                    became nearly motionless. … In these agitations we have taken part with neither the
                    abolitionists of the north or the disunionists of the south, but steadily regarding the perpetuation
                    of our unparalleled system of government … and as patriots we hail with just pride and
                    rejoicing the system of compromise measures passed at the last session of congress….
                    Further the resolutions declared that the meeting would not countenance abduction of slaves from
                    slave states and would not permit 'negro stealing any sooner than horse
                        stealing.'"79
            
            Such sentiments as these sounded political warnings for the Indiana congressmen who had approved the
                    compromise measures. Some of them were quick to break into print explaining their legislative
                    actions.
            William J. Brown made a strong plea in favor of the "peace bill," as he termed it.
                    He condoned the Fugitive Slave Law as a practical measure with which to prove that the people of the
                    North were willing "to sacrifice all upon the altar of constitutional
                        obligation."80
            
            Congressman Joseph E. McDonald reported in the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier that although for him the Fugitive Slave Law was 
                  
                     79
                     Indiana State Sentinel, October 12, 1850.
                  
                     80
                            Ibid., October 8, 1850.
               
                     not wholly free from objections, still he had voted for it,
                    explaining: "I have no more sympathy with the institution of slavery than any other man,
                    but while we exist under the same Constitution with slave States, I am decidedly in favor of
                    discharging our constitutional obligations towards them, however much I detest the institution which
                    they have made the basis of their socisl [sic] system."81
            
            Some of the editors of the Hoosier press also lent their support to the compromise. They too sought
                    to explain the fugitive slave provisions, trying to make them more acceptable. A 
                        Terre Haute
                     editor declared that: "Something must be conceded to the necessities of the
                    times. It was thought by many better to have peace and save the union. It is possible that some of
                    the provisions of the fugitive slave law may seem very stringent. But something had to be yielded,
                    as well as something sustained."82
            
            Equally conciliatory was the Indiana State Journal, central organ of the Whig
                    party. While it did not take a positive position as to the merits of the Fugitive Slave Law, it made
                    a plea for a fair trial without continued agitation against it: "that the law should be
                    given a fair trial,—and if it only secures the object of the Constitution, without unjust
                    requirements at the hands of the people of the free States, then let it remain as it
                        is."83
            
            It is safe to say that these opinions were typical of the majority of the press. While it could speak
                    in a positive tone about the compromise generally, it had to make reservations concerning the
                    troublesome Fugitive Slave Law.
            Protests were also heard in every part of the state, but these initial outbursts were tempered or
                    withdrawn, after giving the problem sober second thought. The course of the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Palladium offers an example of this line of action. After crying that the
                    compromise was a mockery of justice, common sense, and law, and asking, "Why not issue a
                    license to kidnappers," this newspaper gradually spoke with a calmer voice; within a short
                    time it was merely challenging the constitutionality of the law.84
            
            
               
                  81
                        
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Courier, October 18, 1850, quoted in 
                            Madison
                        
                        Courier, November 2, 1850.
               
                  82
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana, 
                     
                                Wabash
                             Courier, November 16, 1850, quoted in Charles H. Money "The
                        Fugitive Slave Law of 1850 in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of history,
                        XVII (1921), 171.
               
                  83
                        Indiana State Journal, May 10, 1851.
               
                  84
                        
                            Richmond
                        
                        Palladium September 11, November 20, December 3, 1850, quoted in Money,
                        "The Fugitive Slave Law of 1850 in Indians," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XVII, 173.
            
            
            The vital opposition minority which continued agitating against the law was composed of members of
                    both parties, for the party lines were being broken by those who opposed as well as by those who
                    approved the compromise. Whether the appeals to rise above party loyalty and join hands were made by
                    the proponents or opponents of any issue, they spelled danger to party structure.
            One of the immediate results of the controversial Fugitive Slave Law was the hierarchical quarrel
                    that developed between Bright and the editor of the Courier, Michael C. Garber.
                    The Indiana senator had assumed that the newspaper was his personal mouthpiece; consequently, when
                    Garber denounced the law in the columns of the Courier in October, Bright rose up
                    indignantly and proceeded to read Garber out of the Democratic party. In addition to his attack on
                    the Fugitive Slave Law, the editor had reported favorably the action of Governor Wright in state
                    affairs. Both acts were cardinal sins in the eyes of Bright, and he retaliated by creating a new
                    political organ for 
                        Madison
                    , The Madisonian, under the editorship of two of his old political
                    henchmen in the river town.85
            
            Yet the Courier was not occupying an extreme position, as witnessed by its
                    treatment a few days later of the Presbyterian church assemblies for their attacks on the Fugitive
                    Slave Law and for preaching the doctrine of a "higher law." Garber wrote:
                    "We have expressed our view of the fugitive law. We don't like it, and we will
                    use our little influence to get it modified, or repealed. But we cannot sanction even by silence,
                    the treasonable language of the assemblies … no matter how thickly the 'cloud
                    of facts' in connection with the subject of 'fugitives' from
                    religious oppression may thicken around us." And again: "the law must be so
                    modified and framed that white people may not be liable to seizure and
                    extradition, upon proof made in another state."86
            
            The confusion over the Fugitive Slave Law also affected the successful alliances that had been
                    patched together in 1849. Julian, a thorough-going Free Soil radical, owed his seat in Congress to
                    such an alliance. Although the Democrats of the Whitewater Valley did not love the Negro, they had
                    been perfectly willing to support Julian, if by so doing they could overthrow the firmly entrenched
                    Whig organization led by Caleb B. Smith. The existence of this particular coalition was endangered
                    by the reactions to the law.
            
               
                  85 William.S. Garber, "Jesse D. Bright and Michael C.
                        Garber," Indiana Magazine of History, XXVIII (1932),
                        31–88.
               
                  86
                        
                            Madison
                        
                        Courier, November 4, December 7, 1850.
            
            
            Julian realized his political life was in danger, for he wrote to his wife: "There is danger
                    d so many and such serious divisions among the Whigs as to encourage the Democrats to set up a man
                    of their own. It may be that the Hunkers of both the old parties will unite
                    against me in favor of some Fugitive Slave Law man, in which event the honest men of all parties
                    will rally to me against that law."87
            
            Not all of the reactions to the Fugitive Slave Law were in a negative direction. On the positive side
                    there was the minor, though important, fact that the schedule of the underground railroad was
                    speeded up.88
            
            It is difficult to evaluate the role played by the church assemblies in the controversy. Some of them
                    took a vehement stand against the Fugitive Slave Law; others refused to take any stand, saying this
                    matter was outside the province of the church. Both reactions, in the end, resulted in keeping the
                    question constantly in the minds of the people, irritating many but influencing few to change their
                    minds on the matter, although occasionally an individual who felt he was being pushed into making a
                    decision, either for or against the law, reacted by withdrawing from the scene. The effects of the
                    efforts of the church assemblies to resolve the problem were neither negative nor positive.
            Those individuals and groups who favored the compromise appealed to patriotism, good faith,
                    constitutionalism, and observance of law. When the Fugitive Slave Law was being tested in the
                    courts, Elisha 
                        Huntington
                    , federal judge, in his charge to the grand jury, expressed the fears of many who were
                    determined that sectional agitation should cease. He declared: "Whatever may be the
                    feelings of the great body of the people in regard to the institution of domestic slavery, they will
                    never be found making war on the rights of others. In the midst of a sectional controversy which has
                    shaken the government to its centre, it has been our boast that Indiana has been faithful to the
                    constitution—her tribunals of justice have ever been unawed and uninfluenced, and it is
                    my firm belief that she will be found faithful to the last.
            
               
                  87 George W. Julian to wife 
                            Washington
                        , December 9, 1850, in "Home Letters of George W. Julian, 
                            Washington
                        , 1860–1851," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        XXIX (1933), 151–52. Julian was aware of his political support, but on occasion
                        personal feeling prompted him to Ignore it. Immediately after the passage of the Compromise,
                        Julian wrote to his wife after making a speech in Congress against Compromise: "It d no
                        doubt make trouble between me and the Democrats, but after the passage of the Fugitive Slave
                        Bill I was determined to my what I thought." Julian to wife, September 26, 1850, ibid., 148.
               
                  88 William M. Cockrum, History of the Underground
                        Railroad (
                            Oakland City
                        , Indiana, [c] 1915), 24 et passim.
            
            
            "Gentlemen, there are too may [sic] indications of a coming storm, and
                    although the spec [sic] in the horizon may now be no larger than a
                    man's hand, it portends a crisis in public affairs which will test the stability of our
                    public institutions. Threatened resistance to the law of Congress and inflammatory appeals to the
                    misguided passions of a portion of the people of the North have placed weapons in the hands of those
                    in the South who seek to overturn the government. Where this is to end God only knows; but our path
                    of duty is plain. We must stand by the rights of others as we stand by our own. —We must
                    observe the laws and we must enforce our observance where they are resisted—we must keep
                    our faith not only with each other, but with the citizens of other States."89 The Judge spoke for a group of influential and highly respected citizens of the state
                    representing both parties. Some of these men were past their political prime and had become leaders
                    in business and banking; among them were Oliver H. Smith, Charles Test, James Raridan, and Charles
                    Dewey.
            Many similar statements were heard in Indiana during the winter of 1850–1851, but the
                    Judge had struck squarely upon the troublesome dilemma: Slavery was an institution to the Hoosier
                    about which he had "feelings"; those who were materially interested in the
                    institution had "rights." Typical of those who supported the compromise, the Judge
                    was not willing to allow "feeling" to enter the courtroom.
            It had proved impossible, however, to keep "feeling" out of the state
                    constitutional convention. Indiana's delegates had met on October 4, 1850, to begin their
                    long sessions in revising the fundamental laws of the state. Although the Compromise of 1850 was of
                    no immediate concern to this convention, James Raridan, a 
                        Wayne
                     County Whig, suggested that resolutions favoring the compromise be passed, and thus
                    touched off a heated debate. Some of the members of the body refused to become involved, claiming
                    that they had not had time to gauge the opinions of those they represented, but from November 30 to
                    December 4, the convention argued over the resolutions. John U. Pettit of 
                        Lafayette
                     cried out that Raridan's action was an "allopathic dose of
                    political medicine," and although he personally favored the Compromise, Pettit claimed the
                    resolutions were politically inspired and therefore had no business on the floor of the convention.
                    Raridan answered that the resolutions 
                  
                     89
                            
                                Cannelton
                            , Indiana, Economist, December 14, 1850.
               
                     related to no political parties except the Union and the
                    anti-Union party.90
            
            The debates revolved about several issues: Was it within the province of the convention to discuss
                    the resolutions? Were they political or not? Was the union in danger? Was the Compromise of 1850
                    really what it claimed to be—a compromise? By placing the issue on the basis of Union vs. anti-Union, it behooved the delegates to express their views carefully, lest
                    they be misinterpreted, and lead to accusations of disunionist sentiment. Consequently, those who
                    opposed the resolutions (and by implication, a portion of the compromise, frequently the Fugitive
                    Slave Law) chose to attack the convention's right to pass any such measures when the
                    purpose of their meeting was to form a new state constitution. Raridan's strategy was
                    difficult to circumvent—he had attempted to make a Union meeting of the constitutional
                    convention.
            The resolutions finally passed the convention by a vote of 90 to 25. The minority represented
                    primarily the southeastern counties of the state: the Whitewater Valley. Although there were five
                    abstainees in the balloting, it might safely be assumed that the majority favored the provisions. It
                    was a plebiscite in a sense, testing the slogan that "Indiana knows no North, that she
                    knows no South, that she knows nothing but the Union."
            On the last day of the eventful year of 1850, the governor of the state, Joseph A. Wright, in his
                    message to the legislature, made one final plea to the citizens of Indiana when he declared:
                    "Complete unanimity is rarely the incident of human councils. In a confederacy like ours,
                    differing as its members do, in soil, climate, and productions; in habits, manners and social
                    relations; in local and sectional interests, it could not be expected now, any more than at the
                    birth of our Federal Constitution, that any compromise, based upon mutual concessions, should be
                    satisfactory to all.
            "It is not a practical question whether those measures of peace, recently framed by great
                    and good men, in the same spirit which actuated our fathers in days gone by, are, in every respect,
                    such as meet our unqualified approval. It has been well said, that the lives of the best of us are
                    spent in choosing between evils; and it is often a bounden duty to endure a temporary and incidental
                    evil for a permanent and inherent good….
            
               
                  90
                        Report of the Debates and Proceedings of the Convention for the Revision of the
                            Constitution of the State of Indiana, 1850 (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1860), I, 865–67.
            
            
            "As Representatives, as citizens of Indiana, as citizens of the 
                        United States
                    , we have difficult, delicate, important duties to perform. Foremost among these is the
                    obligation to oppose, by every lawful means, that spirit of factious fanaticism alike suicidal
                    wherever it has birth, which insidiously assumes the garb, in one section of philanthrophy, in
                    another, or State rights. By speech, by action, by concession, by forebearance, by compromise, by
                    the influence of moral suasion and strong power of kindness, by each and all of these means, let us
                    seek to allay the spirit of lawless misrule, that spirit which instals each man's opinion
                    the arbiter of constitutional rights, or which coolly estimates the value of this Union, and looks
                    with steady eye on a separation of these States, the certain herald of bloodshed and a thousand
                    horrors, a separation to be surely and speedily followed by war, in its most odious form, servile,
                    perhaps, as well as civil,—war among those of the same race, the same name, the same
                    blood….
            "Indiana takes her stand in the ranks, not of Southern destiny, nor yet of
                        NORTHERN
                    DESTINY. She plants herself on the basis of the Constitution! and takes her stand
                    in the ranks of AMERICAN DESTINY."91
            
            Since 1848, the Hoosiers had endured two years of political strife that had stemmed out of the
                    territorial questions of the rapidly expanding nation. The end of the year 1850 found many people
                    accepting the Compromise, people like the Governor who felt it their duty to tolerate a temporary
                    and incidental evil for a permanent and inherent good. To them Slavery, as a legal question, had
                    been settled by a series of statutes. Indiana's politicians, still in the middle of the
                    conflict, to be sure, preferred to consider themselves out of it, picturing themselves as a great
                    force representing the Union, and scorning those of the North and South who had given way to
                    "misguided passions."
            Although the majority of the Indiana politicians played their role to the hilt as representatives of
                    a "central state" maintaining a "high, conservative position,"
                    they knew that, after all, they were on the same stage as the other players. If the Union stage
                    collapsed, all the members of the cast would tumble together.
            
               
                  91
                        Indiana Documentary Journal, 1850, pp. 115, 117.
            
         
         
         
            New 
                        Albany
                     as a Commercial and Shipping Point
            
                    Victor M. Bogle*
               
                
            Details of New 
                        Albany
                    's early history as a river port are meager and elusive—a
                    fragmentary municipal record, an occasional note in a stray newspaper, a brief reference in a
                    contemporary river guide, or a line or two from some traveler's account.
            Yet, a piecing together of these bits of miscellaneous data gives a fair picture of We evolution of
                    the town as a commercial and shipping point. Even before the Scribners came there was a ferry
                    running back and forth to the 
                        Kentucky
                     shore, and the increase in ferry traffic during the first two decades of the settlement
                    indicates that there was a growing freight and passenger intercourse between New 
                        Albany
                     and 
                        Louisville
                    . The record of the launching at New 
                        Albany
                     of some of the first steamboats on the 
                        Ohio
                     signified a growing demand for river conveyances in the area, while the establishment
                    of forgeries and foundries dong the river front testified that steamboat repairing was engaged in by
                    the local "mechanics." Advertisements of town merchants, with listings of wares
                    shipped in by passing steamboats, showed that some of the regular packets paused at New 
                        Albany
                     at least long enough to drop off freight. Regulations reserving the river front as a
                    wharf area imply that from the beginning there was a consciousness of river commercial activities.
                    And the design of the first 
                        Floyd County
                     seal, an engraved steamboat, speaks eloquently enough for the fact that early New
                    Albanyians closely allied themselves with the river and the craft which plied its waters.1
            
            The Falls barrier made necessary two separate lines of steamboats on the 
                        Ohio
                     River. Above they ran between 
                  Pittsburgh, Cincinnati
               , and 
                        Louisville
                    ; below, from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                    .2 It was, as observed by the Scribners, the transshipment of river
                    cargo at this point that gave the towns in the region their real commercial importance. The 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , or up-river boats, had to be unloaded, the cargo transferred to 
                  
                     * Victor M. Bogle is a resident of 
                                Washington
                            , D.C. This article is a revised chapter of his Ph.D. dissertation at 
                                Boston
                             University, 1951, written under the direction of Warren S. Tyron.
                  
                     1 Minutes of the Commissioners of 
                                Floyd County
                            , Indiana, August 13, 1821, p. 134: "Ordered that the County Treasurer
                            pay to John Nuttman five dollars for cutting a Steam Boat as a device to the County Seal of 
                                Floyd County
                             & inserting the word Indiana to the same."
                  
                     2 There came to be many local runs between these points, but those
                            mentioned above were the chief divisions.
               
                     wagons or smaller water conveyances, and then reloaded on the
                    down-river boats.
            There are no statistics to show what percentage of the transshipment business passed through New 
                        Albany
                     during the early period, but it was sufficient to instill hope among New 
                        Albany
                     mercantile people that their town would sometime surpass 
                        Louisville
                     in this respect. The towns of Shippingport and 
                        Portland
                     on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side served as 
                        Louisville
                    's lower shipping stations,3 but the problem of
                    connecting these settlements to 
                        Louisville
                     proper was not entirely solved until the latter half of the century. In the meantime,
                    New 
                        Albany
                     tradesmen publicized their town as the real head of navigation on the 
                        Ohio
                    - 
                        Mississippi
                     system. They sought to divert the lower traffic to their wharf, pass the contents by
                    road to 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , and on across by ferry to 
                        Louisville
                    . This scheme on the part of New 
                        Albany
                     traders was desultory, and, to say the least, not organized. But it began to unfold at
                    an early date and grew in prominence as the century proceeded. Had specific enough action been taken
                    in the 1820's, particularly in the improvement of the crude road between New 
                        Albany
                     and 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , the future of these Indiana towns might have been different. It must be added,
                    however, that topographical conditions on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side of the river did give 
                        Louisville
                     a distinct advantage in attaching her western suburbs to her and combining the whole
                    into an adequate port for both up river and down-river shipping.
            The first newspaper printed in New 
                        Albany
                     ran a regular column on arrivals and departures at the local wharf, setting a precedent
                    that was to be followed in the New 
                        Albany
                     papers till almost 1880. The following notice appeared on May 6, 1821:
            
                    STEAMBOAT NEWS
                    Arrived on Thursday, Steam Boat Vulcan, A. Butler,
                    master, eighteen days from 
                            New Orleans
                        , with full
                    freight and 35 cabin & 168 deck pamengem.
                    The Comet and Hero came up the Falls on Tuesday
                    last, bound to 
                            Cincinnati
                        .
                    Wednesday the Maysville in attempting to ascend the
                    Falls, fell back, & lodged on the rocks.4
               
                
            By 1827 there was no mention made of 
                        Cincinnati
                     in the New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Recorder and Advertiser, thus hinting that the traffic at the Falls had already
                    divided between the upper and the lower commerce.
            
               
                  3
                        
                            Portland
                         was almost directly opposite New 
                            Albany
                         and came to be in a corresponding position on the 
                            Kentucky
                         side. The earlier town of Shippingport was by-passed by the canal in 1831.
               
                  4 New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Chronicle, May 5, 1821.
            
            
            
                    RIVER LIST
                    February 27—Passed up S. B. Belvidere
                    Beckwith master, (from 
                            New Orleans
                        )
                    28—Cleopatra, Hill (from 
                            St. Louis
                        )
                    March 1—Benj. 
                            Franklin
                        , Shrader (from 
                            New Orleans
                        )
                    Passed down
                    February 27—S. B. Florida (N. Orleans)
                    
                  
                            New York
                         (
                            New York
                        )
                    28—Grampus, Voohrees (N Orleans)5
               
                
            Cumings' Western Pilot supplied the following information on the 
                        Ohio
                    's channel along New 
                        Albany
                     for the use of 1825 rivermen: "At low water you must pass to the left of Sandy
                    island, below Shippingport. Keep close to the head of the island, and when near its foot, incline a
                    little to the left.—
                        Portland
                     is about a mile below Shippingport; keep near the left shore at the lower part of New 
                        Albany
                    , and avoid Falling run, then steer short across, to one third from the left shore, to
                    avoid an ugly rocky bar below the mouth of the latter…. Five miles below Falling run
                    commences a bar on the left: keep towards the right shore."6
            
            The date of New 
                        Albany
                    's settlement almost coincides with that of the extension of the steamboat to
                    the waters of the 
                        Ohio
                    . But the steamboat did not suddenly take over all the western transport business. For
                    many years after its introduction, barges, rafts, and flatboats still were common, particularly in
                    the down-river run. The Austrian traveler and fugitive monk, Karl Postl, recorded in 1828 that New 
                        Albany
                     was "the resort of sailors, boatmen, and travellers, who go down the river in
                    their own boats."7 What this type of transient population did for the
                    social life of the town can only be imagined, but it is suggestive of the cosmopolitan atmosphere,
                    the hustle and bustle that is known to have marked the town during the later years of its attachment
                    to the river.
            New 
                        Albany
                     had ferries to connect it with life on the river before it had roads to join it with
                    the scattered settlements in the interior. The ferry that was running when the Scribners came was a
                    scow propelled by oars. It is not likely that this ferry made scheduled runs, but it was available
                    for 
                  
                     5 New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana Recorder and Advertiser, March 3, 1827. The
                            reference to 
                                New York
                             as the home port of the boat bearing this name, is probably an error. Since the
                            other boats mentioned were 
                                New Orleans
                             boats, it is likely it also belongd to this group.
                  
                     6 Samuel Cumings, The Western Pilot (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1825), 21–22.
                  
                     7 Charles Sealsfield, The Americans As They Are (
                                London
                            , 1828) 41. When Karl Postl came to America, he wrote under the name of Charles
                            Sealafield.
               
                     an occasional through-traveler or one of the farmers in the
                    area who wanted to get his produce over to 
                        Kentucky
                    . The Scribners operated a horse-propelled ferry, composed of two flatboats and a tramp
                    wheel in the center on which the horses paced to furnish the propulsion.8 A
                    number of boats were licensed by the county officers to run back and forth across the river, and the
                    frequent exchange of proprietorship suggests that the business was not always too stable. Ferries
                    operating from the town proper were taxed higher than the ones operating from the outskirts. In 1823
                    the tax rates were: "Conner $15.00, Fitch $15.00, Newman $5.00, Oatman $5.00, Jones $5.00,
                    Snider $5.00, Silver Creek ferry $5.00."9
            
            There was some rivalry among the ferryboat operators, especially after roads were sufficiently
                    improved to connect the settlement to the back country.10 The county
                    commissioners endeavored to keep the rivalry regulated by setting forth a toll list applicable to
                    all the operators:
            
               
                  4 wheel waggon or carriage
                  $.50
               
               
                  Every horse of said wagon
                  .20
               
               
                  Every 2 wheel carriage or cart
                  .37 1/2
               
               
                  Every single Horse, Mule or Ase
                  .12 1
               
               
                  Every person exmpt the driver with team
                  .12 1/2
               
               
                  Every head of meat cattle
                  .12 1/2
               
               
                  Every horse of mid [?] carriage
                  .25
               
               
                  For every sheep Hog or Goat
                  .06 1/4
               
               
                  For every barrel of Flour or Liquids when taken over without the carriage or wagon
                  .12 1/2
               
               
                  All other articles in the same proportion.11
                  
               
            
            Serviceable roads to connect New 
                        Albany
                     to the interior developed slowly during the first two decades. The early roads were
                    little more than old trails which the settlers from time to time tried to rescue from the forest.
                    That the problem of roads was a vital one from the beginning is clear from the space devoted to it
                    in the early records. The numerous county roads were laid out by committees appointed by the
                    commissioners after the residents in a specified area had agreed that 
                  
                     8 Henry A. and Kate Ford, History of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Falls Cities and Their counties (vols., 
                                Cleveland
                            , 1882), II, 146.
                  
                     9 Minutes of the Commissioners of 
                                Floyd County
                            , May 13, 1828, p. 219.
                  
                     10 Jamb Oatman used the pages of the New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Chronicle to keep the advantages of his ferry before the public:
                            "Jacob Oatman wishes to inform those who travel from 
                                Louisville
                             to 
                                Vincennes
                             & Corydon, & to all other places leading on those routes, that
                            his ferry is the nearest & best way, especially in the wet season of the year it
                            being much the dryest road, his ferry is two miles below the New 
                                Albany
                             ferry. N. B. His boats are as good as any on the river." New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Chronicle, November 18, 1820.
                  
                     11 Minutes of the Commissioners of 
                                Floyd County
                            , 1819, pp. 28–39.
               
                     the roads should be built. Labor for building and maintaining
                    them came from those who would be directly benefited.12 Sometimes the officials
                    concluded that everybody in the town benefited; for a road built in 1819 they ordered "all
                    the hands living in Township within the bounds of the Grant Line, 
                        Ohio
                     River and Falling run to assist … in opening the same."13
            
            Since the town was almost totally surrounded on its land side by the "knobs," the
                    task of building good wagon routes over the two to three hundred foot elevations was too formidable
                    to be tackled on an elaborate scale. And, too, there were not many places in the far back country
                    that attracted the New 
                        Albany
                     settlers. The town of Corydon held some interest, for the state capital was there till
                    1825, and as early as 1820 the state government authorized an improvement of the trail to this
                    place. After a few years of prompting, work was finally begun, and a macadamized toll road,
                    considered adequate for the contemporary needs, was completed. Fording was the customary procedure
                    in crossing small streams, but in 1828 money was appropriated to build a stone-arch bridge on this
                    road over Falling Run Creek at the lower edge of town. For many years this engineering achievement
                    was regarded as "most excellent and substantial."14
            
            
               
                        Vincennes
                    , which had been the old Indiana territorial capital, was one of the few strategic
                    settlements in the interior of southern Indiana, and it had long been the western terminus of a road
                    running to the northwest from 
                        Louisville
                    . The eastern end of the Indiana stretch had originally been at Clarksville, three miles
                    up the river; but as New 
                        Albany
                     rose to a higher place of commercial dignity, a branch of this road swung down into the
                    town and then rejoined the original trail westward.15 The 
                        Vincennes
                     Road along with that to Corydon became important not only for the increased immigrant
                    travel on them, but also for the service they rendered in enabling farmers to get their produce to
                    New 
                        Albany
                    . In the following decades serious efforts were made to develop the roads and trails
                    into real tentacles of commerce, and it was primarily the area touched by these two roads that
                    served as the best source of produce for New 
                        Albany
                     merchants.
            As mentioned, the failure to maintain a suitable road to 
                        Jeffersonville
                     on the upper end of the Falls was partly responsible 
                  
                     12 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Chronicle, March 31, 1821; 
                        
                                    Floyd County
                                 Gazetteer (
                                Chicago
                            , 1868), 8.
                  
                     13 Minutes of the Commissioners of 
                                Floyd County
                            , August 9, 1819.
                  
                     14 Ford, History of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Falls Cities, II, 153.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 152–53.
               
                     for the Indiana towns losing out in the natural transshipment
                    business taking place around the Falls. In the early years the merchants of these towns were not
                    sufficiently advanced in their thinking to see roads as anything more than rambling channels into
                    the interior for draining farm produce into local markets. Throughout the century New 
                        Albany
                     and 
                        Jeffersonville
                     were to remain separate economic entities, each evolving in its own independent manner.
            New 
                        Albany
                    's rivalry with other towns in the area became an important feature in the
                    history of the next few decades, but even as early as 1820 there was evidence that the citizens of
                    the town were aware of the economic threat of their neighbors. The most immediate rival of New 
                        Albany
                     in the early period was the town of 
                        Providence
                    , located one mile up the river beyond the eastern limits of the Scribner tract. This
                    was almost exclusively the project of one man, Epapharas Jones, the Clark veteran who had refused to
                    sell out to the Scribners.
            Jones maintained that his town had the same right to exist that New 
                        Albany
                     had, and that, if anything, it had a more advantageous site because it was nearer the
                    Falls and nearer to 
                        Louisville
                    . There is a popular anecdote that he came down to New 
                        Albany
                     every morning to see what progress his rivals had made during the preceding night.16 The only officially recorded evidence of the rivalry, however, must be
                    gleaned from the old County Minutes.
            New 
                        Albany
                     being the seat of the county government, the men from this town obviously controlled
                    the governing machinery for the entire county. They did not see fit to act against their own self
                    interest by letting the town of 
                        Providence
                     prove a real threat to their own town. When Jones applied for the right to run a ferry
                    across the 
                        Ohio
                     River, the board "upon mature deliberation and consideration, are of opinion
                    that the said ferry ought not to be established, therefore the motion of the said applicant is
                    overruled." When he applied for a road right-of-way, the reviewers reported: "The
                    said Road if opened would be useless and bothersome." Jones was persistent with his
                    applications, and finally did succeed in obtaining the privileges he desired; but he had to be
                    exclusively responsible for maintaing the road and post a five hundred dollar guarantee that he
                    would do so.17 Presumably Jones's object was to tie his road in with
                    the trail to 
                        Vincennes
                    , drain 
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 154.
                  
                     17 Minutes of the Commissioners of 
                                Floyd County
                             May 22, 1821, p. 121; November 14, 1820, pp. 99–100; March 13, 1821,
                            p. 137; August 14, 1821, p. 144; August 13, 1821, p. 143.
               
                     the traffic down through his town, and thus cut off New 
                        Albany
                     from the normal stream of interior traffic. Whether he was too late in getting his
                    plans into action, or whether New 
                        Albany
                    's advantages simply outweighed those of 
                        Providence
                    , the contest was relatively short. Within the next few decades New 
                        Albany
                     had moved up the river and swallowed up Jones's settlement.18
            
            Closely allied to the river and the Falls there is another theme running through the history of the
                    Falls towns which played a part in the development of these towns that eludes measurement. This was
                    the question of the canal—the canal around the Falls that would allow river craft to
                    by-pass the hazardous rapids and proceed up and down the river unmolested by the three mile
                        obstruction.19 Could it be built? Should it be built? By whom? On which side
                    of the river? These questions had been asked by rivermen as soon as the 
                        Ohio
                     River showed promise of becoming a major thoroughfare to the West. Whatever the
                    answers, they would have a vital effect on the towns in the area which owed their raison d' être to the obstruction which the canal was proposing to
                    erase.
            The question which first confronted the infant towns on both banks of the river was whether a canal
                    would benefit or hinder their individual progress. There were considerations to be weighed on both
                    sides of the issue: If the canal became a reality, the 
                  Pittsburgh, Cincinnati
               , and 
                        New Orleans
                     traffic, now forced to halt in this locality, would pass by the Falls towns and thus
                    remove them from their envious role as shipping terminals. If the canal were built, the traffic on
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     would increase at an unprecedented rate, and these towns, 
                  
                     18 That Jones was not too far wrong in his ambitions
                            for his town can be seen by a glimpse at modem 
                                Vincennes
                             Street, which was the main street of the old 
                                Providence
                            . As New 
                                Albany
                             expanded eastward to its present limits, 
                                Vincennes
                             Street developed into an uptown business section. The building of the bridge to 
                                Louisville
                             in the last quarter of the century on the line with 
                                Vincennes
                             Street gave this section of New 
                                Albany
                             an importance that would have prompted an "I told you so"
                            from Epapharas Jones.
                  
                     19 This description of the Falle from Ford, History of
                                the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Falls Cities, I, 42: "Scarcely a break or ripple occurs m the
                            tranquil flow of the great river, until 
                                Louisville
                             is reached. Here an outcrop of limestone from the hidden depths-the same
                            foundation which underlies the Falls cities and the surrounding country on both sides of the
                            river—throws itself boldly across the entire stream, producing, not so much a
                            fall as a rapid, descending for about three miles in the central line of the river, before
                            resuming the usual moderate pace and smoothness of the current. careful observations have
                            been made of the difference in the stand or height of water at the head and that at the foot
                            of the Falls, at different stages of the river…. It is … seen that the
                            greatest fall, as reckoned between the extreme head and extreme foot of the Falls, is
                            twenty-five feet and three inches, and that the fall steadily diminishes as the river
                            rises."
               
                     as well as others up and down the river, would benefit on a
                    scale heretofore unconceived.
            By the second decade of the nineteenth century it was obvious that some kind of canal would be built,
                    and to hold the first view was no longer in keeping with reality. Cities above the Falls, most
                    notably 
                        Cincinnati
                    , were determined that they would no longer suffer the inconvenience to their shipping
                    and to their pocketbooks. The only time the Falls, "whose terrors have paralized the arm of
                        enterprize,"20 could be gotten over with any degree of safety was
                    during the brief semiannual periods of high water. The wrecks strewn in the area were fair warning
                    to those who had the idea of "shooting" the rapids when the river was at its
                    normal stage. Surveys of the area had been made as early as 1793,21 and
                    corporations for building the canal had been formed in the legislatures of both Indiana Territory
                    and 
                        Kentucky
                     as far back as 1804 and 1805.22 Henry Clay had laid the matter
                    before Congress in 1807, and Albert Gallatin had made recommendations to the federal government in
                        1808.23 But it was not until several years later that the increased traffic
                    on the river, the pressure from the up-river towns, and the rivalry between the 
                        Kentucky
                     and Indiana interests combined to make the building inevitable.
            When it became clear that the canal would be built, the important question came to be on which side
                    of the river would the artificial channel run. If on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side, 
                        Louisville
                    , already having a head start on the Indiana towns, would draw whatever additional
                    benefits accrued from the building. This would guarantee its future superiority over 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and New 
                        Albany
                    . If built on the Indiana side, the normal flow of traffic would have to cling more
                    closely to the Indiana shore and give the Indiana towns the advantage. Indiana's Benjamin
                    Hovey had written a pamphlet back in 1805 which had done much to establish the belief that the canal
                    would best be dug on the Indiana side. Henry M'Murtrie ridiculed this attempt 
                  
                     20 Henry M'Murtrie, Sketches of 
                                    Louisville
                                 and Its Environs (
                                Louisville
                            , 1819), 177.
                  
                     21 Gilbert Imlay, Topographical Description of the
                                Western Territory of North America (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1793), I, 63–65.
                  
                     22 Francis S. Philbrick, The Laws of Indiana
                            Territory (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1931), 154–63.; Laws of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 1802–1807, pp. 221–34, 259–72,
                            373–74 The best outline of the early efforts in both states is in the Report of the Indiana Canal Company on the Improvement of the Falls of the 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1856). A record of the canal issue as it appeared from time to time in the 
                                Kentucky
                             Legislature can be found in Ethel C. Leahy, Who's Who
                                on the 
                                    Ohio
                                 River (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1931).
                  
                     23
                            Report of the Indiana Canal Company, 4–5.
               
                     to publicize the rival shore, poking fun at Hovey's
                    mistake in referring to the Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                     sides of the river as the "east" and "west"
                        banks.24
            
            There was no popular plan at this date to bring the canal as far down as New 
                        Albany
                    , for this town was really located a considerable distance below the worst of the
                    rapids. But the Indiana visionaries saw the entire area between 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and New 
                        Albany
                     as one great river metropolis. At this time industry in the area was, meager, but there
                    were those who dreamed of a day when the power of the Falls would be harnessed for industrial
                    purposes. Either side of the river was eligible for these developments whenever they should come,
                    and the future prosperity of the towns would in part depend on whether it were to be an Indiana or a 
                        Kentucky
                     canal.25
            
            In 1818, after the proposals had lain dormant for years, a sense of immediacy seized the interested
                    parties on both sides of the river and a race ensued to see which could get a canal dug first. The
                    Indiana group, given at least moral support by 
                        Cincinnati
                     commercial people, was the first to take active steps.26 The 
                        Jeffersonville
                    
                    
                        Ohio
                     Canal Company was incorporated by the Indiana state legislature with a capital of one
                    million dollars. In addition to this money, the new corporation received permission to raise one
                    hundred thousand dollars more by a lottery. Still further state assistance came in the form of a
                    supply of labor from the newly established state prison at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    .27
            
            Early in 1819 surveyors laid out the route and contractors went to work on what was then a gigantic
                    excavation project. The canal was to begin a short distance east of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , go through the back edges of that town, and come out at the eddy at the foot of the
                    rapids at Clarksville.28 It was to be two and a half miles long and one hundred
                    feet wide. The twenty-five foot fall through the two and a half mile course was to furnish power to
                    drive the future "manufactories."
            
               
                  24 M'Murtrie, Sketches of 
                                Louisville
                            
                  , 179–80.
               
                  25
                        Ibid., 171–92. M'Murtrie's writings leave no
                        doubt that at least he was concerned with this phase of the issue. A large section of his book
                        could be called propaganda to swing the canal project to the 
                            Kentucky
                         side of the river.
               
                  26
                        Indiana House Journal, 1817, p. 8. 
                            Cincinnati
                        's fear of 
                            Louisville
                        's prosperity prompted merchants of the 
                            Ohio
                         top to support the Indiana project. See Benjamin Casseday, History of 
                                Louisville
                            
                   (
                            Louisville
                        , 1852), for details of this rivalry.
               
                  27
                  Laws of Indiana, 1816–1817, p.
                        219–28; Laws of Indiana, Special, 1817–1818, pp.
                        57–67; New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Chronicle, January 13, 1821.
               
                  28 Ford, History of the 
                                Ohio
                             Falls Cities, I, 47.
            
            
            But the hard limestone turned out to be more than the contractors bargained for. It was necessary to
                    blast out ten or twelve feet of stone over most of the projected course, and the task simply proved
                    too much for the energies and facilities at hand. The project was abandoned and 
                        Kentucky
                     was given an opportunity to go ahead with its plans without fear of further
                    competition. What proved to be too big a job for the Indiana people did not deter those of 
                        Kentucky
                    . In 1825 they received a new charter from their legislature and supported by capital
                    from 
                        Philadelphia
                    , as well as a $290,200.00 purchase of their stock by the federal government, they
                    eventually carried their canal to completion in 1831.29 This canal was far from
                    perfect, and its dimensional limitations were to cause much trouble in years to come. But it
                    confronted the Indiana towns with a condition that was bound to affect their future development.
            New 
                        Albany
                     and 
                        Jeffersonville
                     passed up their opportunity to build their own canal when such a project would have had
                    a most determining effect on their relative status around the Falls. 
                        Louisville
                     did not suddenly bloom forth after its canal was built—and the Indiana towns
                    shrivel away. And had the canal been placed on the Indiana side there is no guarantee that New 
                        Albany
                     and 
                        Jeffersonville
                     would have surpassed the 
                        Kentucky
                     city. On the other hand, some of the greatest cities of the West were in their infancy
                    or not even thought of yet. Some of the leading towns of that day were destined to remain just
                    towns, while inconspicuous villages were to become great cities.30 It was the
                    building of the canal on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side of the river which more than any other single factor determined that 
                        Louisville
                    , not New 
                        Albany
                    , was to be the great city of the Falls area.
            
               
                  29 Logan Esarey, "Internal Improvements in Early
                        Indiana," Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                            Indianapolis
                        . 1895-), V (1915). 65–69. An Indiana historian, Logan Esarey, in.
                        summarizing the causes of the failure said: "In their zeal the projectors overlooked
                        two very important considerations—neither the labor nor the capital could be had in
                        the vicinity at the time and the amount of commerce was not sufficient to attract outside
                        capital." History of Indiana, (2d ed.; 2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1918), I, 267–69.
               
                  30 The population figures from the Census of 1820 show
                        what an open race there was among the future great cities of the West. 
                            Chicago
                         and other modern leaders were not yet listed. 
                            New Orleans
                         27, 176; 
                            St. Louis
                         10,049; 
                            Cincinnati
                         9,642; 
                            Pittsburgh
                         7,248; 
                            Louisville
                         4,012; 
                            Detroit
                         1,422; 
                            Cleveland
                         606.
            
         
         
         
            A Prophet and a Science Are Born
            
                    Hugh M. Ayer*
               
                
            Upon this scene of conflict and confusion there appeared in 1842 a man whose ideas and teachings in
                    the field of medicine and philosophy were strange and provocative of suspicion even in that period.
                    His contribution to the confusion was to combine elements of phrenology, mesmerism, homeopathy, and
                    eclecticism, and a host of his own ideas, and emerge with a system of moral philosophy and medical
                    science which anticipated parts of modern psychology, psychiatry, and spiritualism, and which
                    contained many points now conceded by medical scientists. The man was Joseph Rodes Buchanan, son of
                    an early 
                        Kentucky
                     doctor, and himself a graduate of the 
                        Louisville
                     Medical Institute.
            Of Scots-Irish descent, Joseph Rodes Buchanan WELS born at 
                        Frankfort
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , December 11, 1814, the only surviving child of Joseph and Nancy Rodes Garth
                        Buchanan.1 Although Joseph Buchanan died when his son was only fifteen years
                    old, there are numerous indications that the influence of the father was a major factor in shaping
                    the later life of his son. For that reason it seems advisable to give a brief resume of the life and
                    ideas of Joseph Buchanan.
            Samuel Buchanan, the first of the family to come to America, arrived early in the eighteenth century.
                    Andrew Buchanan, one of Samuel's five sons, married Joanna Hay, and after serving as a
                    captain in the French and Indian War moved his family to 
                        Virginia
                    , where Joseph Buchanan, the father of Joseph Rodes Buchanan, was born on August 24,
                        1785.2
            
            In 1795, Joseph Buchanan moved from 
                        Virginia
                     to 
                        Tennessee
                    .3 His first fourteen months of formal education were 
                  
                     * Huhg M. Ayer is a member of the history faculty at Culver Military
                            Academy, Culver Indiana This article is a chapter of his master's thesis at
                            Indiana University, 1950, written under the direction of R. Carlyle Buley.
                  
                     1 Mrs. Henry B. Howry to the author, 
                                Louisville
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            , March 14, 1949. Tradition has it that the Buchanan name originall was Anselan
                            and that the family descended from the "Laird of Anselan," upon whom the
                            name of Buchanan was a conferred title.
                  
                     2 Joanna Hay was a daughter of Patrick Hay and is said to have been a
                            direct descendant of the Earl of Lindsay. Mrs. Henry B. Howry to the author, 
                                Louisville
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                             March 14, 1949. Lewis Collins, History of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                      (2 vols., Louisviile, 1924), II, 218; The Biographical
                                Encyclopedia of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                      (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1878), 88.
                  
                     3 Collins, History of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , II, 218. Whether his parents accompanied him is not revealed.
               
                     obtained in a small school near 
                        Nashville
                    , where he is said to have mastered the Latin language in nine months and to have
                    distinguished himself by original composition. " 'He was so fond of originality
                    in all his essays, that he would not even condescend to write on any subject on which he had ever
                    read anything.'"4
            
            In 1804, at the age of nineteen, Joseph Buchanan migrated to 
                        Lexington
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , and entered Transylvania University. At that time he was delicate and diffident
                    "and is said to have passed for a simpleton."5 But this
                    illusion was quickly dispelled when he detected and demonstrated an error in his mathematics
                    textbook. The result of this episode was a controversy with one of his professors, followed by the
                    publication of a brief mathematical work in which Buchanan demonstrated the sufficiency of gravity
                    and pointed out "some defects in the speculations of Sir Isaac 
                        Newton
                    ."
            Terminating his studies at the university in 1805, he began the study of medicine under Dr. Samuel
                    Brown in 
                        Lexington
                    , and by 1807 was practicing in Fort Gibson, 
                        Mississippi
                    . While there he wrote a volume on fevers and took the manuscript to 
                        Philadelphia
                     for publication; but, although Dr. Benjamin Rush is said to have spoken highly of the
                    work, Buchanan failed to find a publisher who was willing to bear the expense.6
            
            Finding himself without funds, Buchanan occupied himself for twenty-seven days by walking from 
                        Philadelphia
                     to 
                        Lexington
                    , where he resumed his medical studies. And in 1809, having acquired the A.B. degree, he
                    was appointed to the chair of the Institutes of Medicine in the Transylvania Medical Department. The
                    department was poorly organized, however, and apparently no classes were offered that year. The
                    following year Buchanan resigned.7
            
            Buchanan's one year on the Transylvania faculty was not 
                  
                     4 Lewis Collins, Historical Sketches of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                      (Maysville, 
                                Kentucky
                            , 1847), 559, quoting from an unrevealed source.
                  
                     5 Emmet F. Horine, "Early Medicine in 
                                Kentucky
                             and the 
                                Mississippi
                             Valley: A: Tribute to Daniel Drake, M.D.," Journal of the
                                History of Medicine (
                                New York
                            , 1946-), III (1948), 266; The Biographical Encyclopedia of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 88.
                  
                     6 Merle E. Curti, "Joseph Buchanan," Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1943), III, 215.
                  
                     7 Horine, "Early Medicine in 
                                Kentucky
                             and the 
                                Mississippi
                             Valley" Journal of the History of Medicine, III,
                            266; Collins, Historical Sketches of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 559; Robert. Peter, The History of the Medical
                                Department of Transylvania University (Filson Club Publication No. 20, 
                                Louisville
                            , 1905), 13–14.
               
                     wasted, however, for the lectures which he had prepared during
                    this period were published, in 1812, as The Philosophy of Human Nature. This was
                    his most important work and was "one of the earliest systematic and consistent
                    presentations of materialism to be published in America." Based mainly on the writings of
                    Charles Darwin, David Hue, and David Hartley —whose teachings Buchanan first encountered
                    while working with Dr. Samuel Brown —the book falls in two general divisions. The first
                    chapter was devoted to refuting the idea that the mind existed as an independent entity, and in the
                    remaining chapters he presented experimental evidence to describe the operations and laws of human
                    nature. Although he ultimately accepted the agnostic position, Buchanan attempted "to show
                    that a materialistic explanation of mind is more in accord with reason and fact than a spiritual
                    explanation." This emphasis on matter rather than on mind, plus his attempt to construct a
                    materialistic monism, has caused some to refer to Buchanan as "the earliest native
                    physiological psychologist."8
            
            Joseph Buchanan refused to believe that there was in man a spiritual mind "possessed of an
                    original activity, able to feed and think within itself or to commence thought, sentiment, and
                    motion." He accepted the theory that "matter alone is capable of displaying all
                    the phenomena of animal life" and concluded that "the human system is thus a
                    machine entirely material, composed of a great variety of elementary particles." To
                    Buchanan the mind was simply an organic state of matter, "a peculiar combination of
                    material elements, capable of displaying the attributes of intellect," and in no manner
                    dependent upon any immaterial or spiritual element.9
            
            These arguments were in direct opposition to the later teachings of his son, who placed much stress
                    upon the importance of spiritual influence. But father and son were in agreement that "the
                    brain or sensory organ is the seat of intellectual life and is intimately related and dependent upon
                    the whole vital system."10
            
            Joseph Buchanan again preceded his son in forming his 
                  
                     8 Niels H. Sonne, Liberal 
                                    Kentucky
                                , 1780–1828 (
                                Columbia
                             University Studies in American Culture, No. 3, 
                                New York
                            , 1939) 84–88; Curti, "Joseph Buchanan," Dictionary of American Biography, III, 215.
                  
                     9 Joseph Buchanan The Philosophy of Human Nature (
                                Richmond
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            , 1812), 8–9,18–13, 34, 37. The writer is indebted to Dr.
                            Emmet F. Horine of 
                                Louisville
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            , for the use of this rare and valuable book.
                  
                     10
                     Ibid., 89.
               
                     philosophy of the interrelations between men and between man
                    and his environment. As early as 1812 he had formulated the theory, which was to be the fundamental
                    basis of the teachings of his son in later years, that "physical agents cannot possibly
                    co-exist … without exerting their energies on each other." Thus, every substance
                    on earth, vital or inanimate was affected by atmospheric elements, water, caloric, electricity, and
                    all the rest. "The human body … becomes therefore dependent on them alike for
                    its preservation and destruction, its life and death."11
            
            In reference to phrenology the elder Buchanan expressed doubt as to its validity, but at the same
                    time used its theories as an argument for materialism. "According to the observations of
                    many ingenious men, the external form and internal texture of the brain, are very important
                    circumstances to the intellect it embraces. If that intellect were purely spiritual and
                    intrinsically active, it is very improbable that these trivial circumstances in the mere instrument
                    of its operations could make an important difference in its powers: but if mentality be only an
                    attribute of the living brain, it is then to be expected, that a different proportion of parts in
                    that organ, or a slight variation in its intrinsic structure, would produce the greatest difference
                    of intellectual powers which occurs among men. The fact then, as stated above; that the various
                    degrees of intelligent power observable among men, and other animals also, may be traced to
                    varieties in the formation and texture of their nervous systems; is no inconsiderable argument for
                    M& terialism."12
            
            Joseph Buchanan also denied the doctrine of a nervous fluid "or subtle matter secreted in
                    the brain, and diffused through the whole system of the body" as one which merely
                    complicated the situation. Granted there were such a fluid, what, he asked, was there to stimulate
                        it?13 He thought it much safer and simpler to accept what was to him the
                    obvious explanation—that the nervous system was an entirely material one, stimulated by
                    material things and acting upon material objects.
            These ideas—all embraced in Buchanan's major work—coming from the
                    press in 1812, could not have come to light at 
                  
                     11
                     Ibid., 39.
                  
                     12
                     Ibid., 11.
                  
                     13
                     Ibid., 55.
               
                     a more crucial time. It was a period of violent controversy
                    between religious "liberalism" and infidelity. The campaign against anything
                    smacking of vice or heresy was instigated and conducted mainly by John Campbell and the
                    Presbyterians. It reached into all walks of life and was ever in search of objects to attack.
            In the eyes of the religionists The Philosophy of Human Nature was an outstanding
                    example of infidelity. They could not swallow Buchanan's materialism nor his denial of
                    the influence of the spiritual element in life. The fact that Buchanan also insisted on complete
                    separation of church and state merely added to the ire of the Presbyterians—who
                    maintained that a true republican government, to be successful, must be in the hands of Christian
                    citizens and Christian leaders—and he became the center of attack.14
            
            The hardy philosopher rallied to the occasion, however, and under the pseudonyms
                    "Civis," "A Native Kentuckian," and others, became the
                    editorialist who "most ably and insistently presented" the views of the liberals.
                    Thereafter he continued to play a leading role in the controversy and his agitations were a major
                    factor in eventually wresting from the Presbyterians their control of Transylvania University.16
            
            Buchanan's personal views in regard to religion as such seem to be an open question. Both
                    his political and his religious enemies accused him of atheism, but he has left no definite
                    assertion that such was his status. "On the contrary, his references to God were
                    reverential, and he often spoke of himself as a Christian."16
            
            It was in their ideas on education that Joseph Buchanan and his son were most nearly alike. After
                    resigning from the Transylvania faculty in 1810, Joseph Buchanan went East to study the Pestalozzian
                    system of education, and soon thereafter he returned to 
                        Kentucky
                     to establish a school based on its principles.
            In establishing his Pestalozzian school near 
                        Lexington
                    , Buchanan was particularly interested in preparing boys to be men of science and
                    business. He wanted to avoid the teaching of the dead languages as much as possible, and he planned
                    to 
                  
                     14 Some, Liberal 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 81, 111. Later Joseph Rodes Buchanan also became a strong advocate of
                            separation of church and state.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 139, 83.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 83.
               
                     exclude all religion from his teaching, whether Christian,
                    deist, or atheist, as well as all politics. His system was to begin the students with simple
                    material which they could easily master and advance from there to successively harder material;
                    nothing should be passed until mastered. "He wished to cultivate the memory and powers of
                    recollection, on the principles of analogy and association." Following the rule that the
                    powers and habits of human beings were most effectively strengthened and confirmed by vigorous and
                    systematic exercise, he employed the methods of observation and experimentation, and rewarded the
                    students who answered first and best.17
            
            The suspicious Presbyterians frowned upon this system of education. They branded Buchanan as
                    "a professed Infidel… [who] was about to establish a school on Neif's
                        [sic] system, where youth are to stay from eight to twenty-one years, and thus
                    be initiated into all the illusions of infidelity from their earliest infancy."18 As a result of these attacks by religious parties, the school failed after
                    two years, but Joseph Buchanan's "sanguine predictions" as to his new
                    method of education "were fully realized, in the education of his own son."19
            
            Having met with opposition and defeat in the field of education, Buchanan next turned his attention
                    to journalism, and in 1813 formed a partnership with Robert Johnson to publish the 
                  
                            Kentucky
                         Palladium at 
                        Frankfort
                    . This venture continued until 1816, and it was during this period—December
                    11, 1814—that Joseph Rodes Buchanan was born.
            In 1816 the Buchanan-Johnson partnership was dissolved, probably because of bankruptcy, and Buchanan
                    became editor of the Light House at Harrodsburg. The outcome of this venture is
                    not known, but it must have been similar to the previous one, for in 1819 the Buchanan family was in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where the father established the Literary Cadet and Cheap City
                    Advertiser. This soon merged with the Western Spy to form the Western Spy and Literary Cadet, with Buchanan as editor. This in turn broke up in 1821,
                    and the Buchanans apparently moved to 
                        Louisville
                     soon thereafter.40
            
            
               
                  17
                        Ibid., 95–100.
               
                  18
                        Ibid., 80, quoting from an article in A Correct View by John
                        F. Schemerhorn and Samuel J. Mills, the Presbyterian Investigators who came west to study the
                        religious situation.
               
                  19 Collins, Sketches of 
                                Kentucky
                            
                  , 560.
               
                  20 Sonne, Liberal 
                                Kentucky
                            
                  , 84–85, gives the best and most complete summary of Joseph
                        Buchanan's activities as an editor and journalist.
            
            
            The versatile Buchanan now turned his attention to inventive science, and, though he succeeded in
                    making no lasting contributions to the mechanical age, created some interest and excitement among
                    the local citizens. As early as 1805 he had invented an instrument which produced music from glasses
                    of different chemical composition, but the gadget was never put into operation. In 1821 he
                    constructed a spiral boiler which embraced improvements in the way of lightness, economy, and
                    safety. The generation of steam in small tubes, incapable of explosion, was the fundamental idea of
                    this boiler, and it: was Buchanan's hope that the principle might be successfully applied
                    to aerial navigation. In 1824–1825 he applied his engine to a wagon with sufficient
                    success to astonish "a throng of spectators" in 
                        Louisville
                    . The engine was also tested on a small boat on the 
                        Ohio
                     River and in 1824 it was applied to a cotton factory at Nicholasville, but apparently
                    without much success.21
            
            In 1826, Buchanan once more turned to his journalistic interests when, in collaboration with W. W.
                    Worsley, he established the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Focus, a newspaper with literary and scientific leanings; and it was while engaged
                    in this enterprise that he died, a victim of the yellow fever epidemic of 1829.
            Those who have studied the life and works of Joseph Buchanan speak of him only in the most glowing
                    terms. One who was intimately acquainted with him remembered his "slender form, massive
                    head, and thoughtful, intellectual face," and characterized him as "a mechanical,
                    medical, and political philosopher."22 Simple in manner and
                    taste," amiable in private life … original and ingenious—ardent and
                    enthusiastic, yet subjecting everything to the searching analysis of critical reason, he might have
                    attained the highest rank in any pursuit upon which his energies had been concentrated; but
                    cultivating his intellect to the neglect of other powers, he scorned the pursuit of wealth;
                    abstracted himself from society, lived in continual pecuniary embarrassment… wasted his
                    powers in desultory labors, lived and died comparatively indifferent to fame."23
            
            
               
                  21 Collins, History of 
                                Kentucky
                            
                   II, 174, 397; Curti, "Joseph Buchanan," Dictionary of American Biography, III, 215; Mrs. Henry B. Howry to the author, 
                            Louisville
                        , 
                            Kentucky
                        , March 14, 1949.
               
                  22 Peter, Transylvania University, 14, quoting from the
                        inaugural address of Lewis Rogers at the 
                            Kentucky
                         State Medical Society, 1873.
               
                  23 Collins, Sketches of 
                                Kentucky
                            , 560.
            
            
            Joseph Buchanan was an outstanding example of versatility in an age of versatile men. He was a
                    doctor, editor, philosopher, educator, lawyer, scientist, and historian; and at various times he
                    made important contributions to each field. He was "essentially an intellectual pioneer
                    working in an environment which encouraged versatility rather than specialization and profundity,
                    [and] he contributed substantially to the development of culture in the 
                        Ohio
                     River Valley." It was only his inability to concentrate his efforts on a
                    single task that saved him from fame. "His significance consists in having most thoroughly
                    thought out a philosophy to supplant the recognized forms of dogmatic theology, and of having then
                    proceeded to live by that philosophy. In his major work Buchanan not only attacked many fundamental
                    theological concepts, but provided a theory of human nature and of morality, which he felt to be a
                    satisfactory basis upon which to build human character."24
            
            Such was the diversified nature of the father of Joseph Rodes Buchanan. That the son of such a man
                    would face both problems and opportunities unique in a pioneer setting goes without question. When
                    young Buchanan was born, his father's most important works had already been accomplished;
                    he was known as a doctor, teacher, author, and editor, and aa an advocate of
                    "liberalism" he had been a leader of the ultimate victors in one of the
                    West's most violent controversies. Through his revolutionary ideas on education and
                    philosophy he had won both loyal supporters and bitter enemies. Controversy followed him to the
                    grave, and he left behind him a son capable of continuing the struggle.
            Of the early life of Joseph Rodes Buchanan very little has been recorded. The family moved about too
                    much for him to have established strong ties in any one place; from 
                        Frankfort
                     to Harrodsburg, thence to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and finally to 
                        Louisville
                    , within less than a decade, was the trail of a restless father seeking his fortune.
            Books and education seem to have occupied a major portion of young Buchanan's early years,
                    and of that phase we have more information, with the influence and guidance of his father being
                    everywhere evident. Even in childhood he was "noted for his uncommon maturity of
                    mind," and at the age of 
                  
                     24 Sonne, Liberal 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 86–86 82–83; Curti, "Joseph
                            Buchanan," Dictionary of American Biography, III, 215.
               
                     seven he began the study of geometry, astronomy, history, and
                        French.25 Four years later he stimulated his interest in sociology by
                    reading the work of Robert Dale Owen on that subject. And from Buchanan's own pen there
                    is the testimony that during his youth he had access to "daily packages of
                    newspapers" which he read in a "desultory" manner.26
            
            Joseph Buchanan's ambition was to make a lawyer of his son and when the boy was only
                    thirteen personally conducted him through the study of Blackstone's Commentaries. Having studied law in 1847, and having later lectured to a private law
                    class, Buchanan was, by pioneer standards, a well-qualified teacher of jurisprudence.27 But young Buchanan had been too long and too closely associated with the all absorbing
                    editorial activities of his father, and his first love was for the printer's ink and the
                    clatter of the press.
            For five years following the death of his father, Buchanan sustained himself by labor as a printer
                    and teacher, at the same time vigorously continuing his studies. But in 1834, poor health having
                    forced him to give up this work, he turned his attention to another of his father's
                    former pursuits and took up the study of medicine at Transylvania.28
            
            At Transylvania University he studied under professors Charles 
                        Caldwell
                     and John Esten Cooke, and it may have been there that he first received two impressions
                    which were to become almost an obsession for the rest of his life. As has been noted, 
                        Caldwell
                     was the first to introduce the doctrines of phrenology to the West, and it seems likely
                    that 
                        Caldwell
                    , an ardent advocate of the system, may have been the first to stimulate in Buchanan an
                    interest in the study of the brain. 
                  
                     25
                            Biographical Encyclopedia of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 652. Only John Stuart Mills, who began the study of Greek at the age
                            of three, seems to have bettered this record. D. C. Somervell, English Thought
                                in the Nineteenth Century (
                                New York
                            , 1936), 93. In Buchanan's own words, before he was twelve years old,
                            he had "mastered the outlines of grammar, geography history, mathematics,
                            astronomy, chemistry, natural philosophy, mental philosophy and political economy, and
                            prepared to commence the study of law." "Education," Buchanan's Journal of Man (6 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                             and 
                                Boston
                            , 1849–1856), I, 193.
                  
                     26 Harvey W. Felter, History of. the Eclectic Medical
                                Institute, 
                                    Cincinnati
                                , 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1845–1902 (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1902), 98; Joseph R. Buchanan, "Nationalization of the Land as First
                            Presented," The Arena (41 vols, 
                                Boston
                            , 1889–1909), III (1890–1891), 406.
                  
                     27 Collins, History of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , II, 218.
                  
                     28
                            Biographical Encyclopedia of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 652; Joseph R. Buchanan, Manual of Psychometry: The Dawn
                                of a New Civilization (
                                Boston
                            , 1885), 77, 82–83.
               
                     From the methods of Cooke, on the other hand, he probably first
                    developed his antipathy toward the practices of members of the regular medical profession, which he
                    so vociferously attacked in later years. He later described Cooke as "an honest and earnest
                    man" but as one who used the "horrible system" of salivating by
                    mercurials the majority of the sick, and spoke with disgust of the time when Cooke had given to one
                    man "altogether a pound and a half [of calomel] before he died."29
            
            At that time the medical department at Transylvania was the best and most prosperous one west of the
                    Allegheny Mountains. As early as 1799, five hundreds dollars worth of books and apparatus had been
                        bought,30 and the amounts spent had steadily increased through the years.
                    "In their suitableness to their several purposes, her [Transylvania's] buildings
                    are not surpassed by those of any similar institution in the 
                        United States
                    ; of her faculty, as a body their competency has never been called in question, but has
                    been spoken of in terms of high commendation; her library … is one of the best selected
                    in the country … and the chemical apparatus and anatomical museum… are amply
                    sufficient. … In making these provisions … near thirty-five thousand dollars
                    have been expended."31
            
            But the Transylvania Medical Department was facing a crisis. In 1833 a state charter had authorized
                    the establishment of a medical school at 
                        Louisville
                     and certain elements had begun a campaign to have the Transylvania Medical Department
                    removed to that location. Advocates of this plan pointed out the greater advantages of 
                        Louisville
                    's geographic location and compared it with the relatively isolated situation
                    of 
                        Lexington
                    . Its opponents, such as 
                        Caldwell
                    , in the passage quoted above, expounded the excellent standing and reputation of the
                    department at 
                        Lexington
                     and thought that "the numerous scenes of seduction and dissipation, and the
                    general distracting character of … [
                        Louisville
                    ] were eminently injurious to the 
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 77–78.
                  
                     30 Horine, "Early Medicine in 
                                Kentucky
                             and the 
                                Mississippi
                             Valley" Journal of the History of Medicine, III,
                            265. William F. Norwood. Medical Education in the 
                                    United States
                                 Before the Civil War (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1944), 289, sets the figure at $5,000.
                  
                     31 A Centennial History of the University of 
                                    Louisville
                                
                      (American Guide Series, 
                                Louisville
                            , 1939), 26, quoting Dr. Charles Caldwell in Transylvania Journal
                                of Medicine and the Associate Sciences, VII (1834), 8 ff.
               
                     youth who resorted to it, for their education."32 The two schools did not combine, but the controversy so disrupted the
                    Transylvania department that it never regained its former prominence; and when the new 
                        Louisville
                     Medical Institute began operations in 1837 both 
                        Caldwell
                    , who had so bitterly opposed the plan, and Cooke were on the faculty of the 
                        Louisville
                     school.
            Just how long Buchanan continued his studies at Transylvania, or what his attitude toward the
                    controversy was, is not recorded, and he was next heard of as a student at the 
                        Louisville
                     Medical Institute. Speculation points to the probability that he changed schools in
                    order to continue studying under 
                        Caldwell
                    . On the other hand, the fact that a new medical school had been established in his home
                    town may have had something to do with his leaving Transylvania.
            The 
                        Louisville
                     Medical Institute, well staffed with men prominent in their profession, seems b have
                    been a success from the beginning. In 1839 its new building, consisting of three lecture rooms, four
                    dissecting rooms, apartments for the faculty, and various other facilities, was completed. By the
                    end of 1838 its library contained approximately twelve hundred volumes, and the following summer Dr.
                    J. B. Flint was sent to Europe to purchase more.33
            
            The requirements for graduation were typical of similar institutions of the period. The only entrance
                    requirements were the ability to read and write, while fees were relatively small—five
                    dollars for matriculation, fifteen dollars for each course of lectures, and ten dollars for an
                    optional dissecting ticket.34 Two years of apprenticeship and two sessions of
                    lectures of four months each comprised the practical experience and formal classroom requirements.
                    The student, who had to be twenty years old and of good character, was then subjected to both public
                    and private oral examinations, which were conducted by the faculty and two practicing physicians.
                    Finally, the candidate was required to present a thesis in English, French, or Latin, on some
                    subject relating to medicine.
            In this setting Joseph Rodes Buchanan completed his formal education and received the M.D. degree
                    from the 
                        Louisville
                     Medical Institute in 1841. The same year he married 
                  
                     32
                     Ibid., 26–27.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid, 26, 48.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., 47.
               
                     Anne Rowan, daughter of Judge John Rowan,35
                    thus early connecting himself with one of 
                        Kentucky
                    's most prominent families; and one year later occurred the publication of
                    his Sketches of Buchanan's Discoveries in Neurology, which was his
                    first important publication and which, containing the basic ideas of all his later teaching and
                    writing, was the result of six years intensive work.
            It is impossible to say just when Buchanan first became interested in phrenology. He undoubtedly had
                    heard of it through his father, and perhaps through his own reading, which was extensive; and any
                    interest which he may have displayed relative to the subject probably was further stimulated at
                    Transylvania by 
                        Caldwell
                    . At any rate, by 1835, Buchanan had devoted enough attention to the subject to have
                    gained some recognition; and during that year he traveled to Natchez, 
                        Mississippi
                    —and perhaps other places in the South—where he "engaged
                    in the study and diffusion of phrenological science." The following year, having become
                    convinced of "the substantial truth of the Gallian system of Phrenology," he
                    devoted himself "exclusively to the phrenological study of man."36
            
            As for his reasons for taking up phrenology, there is Buchanan's own testimony:
                    "My life has been devoted to the study of man, his destiny and his happiness. Uncontrolled
                    in education, I learned to brook no mental restraint, and thrown upon my own resources in boyhood,
                    difficulties but strengthened the passion for philosophical knowledge.
            "Anthropology had no systematic development, and its elementary sciences were in confusion.
                    Mental philosophy was too limited in its scope, and had too little of the practical character. In
                    studying medicine it seemed that I had wandered through a wilderness without compass or cardinal
                    points. Phrenology promised much and I examined it cautionsly [sic.] It struck me
                    as an unsatisfactory system of mental philosophy, but one worthy of investigation as a natural
                    science, 
                  
                     35 H. A. Kelly and W. L. Burrage, Dictionary of American
                                Medical Biographies (
                                New York
                            , 1928), 163. John Rowan was perhaps the outstanding lawyer of 
                                Kentucky
                             during the first half of the nineteenth century. from 1804 to 1806 he was
                            secretary of state for 
                                Kentucky
                            , after which he served one term in the 
                                United States
                             House of Representatives. In the early 1820's he re-entered the
                            political field, servd two terms in the 
                                Kentucky
                             state senate, and from 1825 to 1831 was a member of the 
                                United States
                             Senate.
                  
                     36 Buchanan Manual of Psychometry, 51; Joseph R.
                            Buchanan, "Letter VI—Dr. Buchanan to Miss Bremer," Buchanans Journal of Man, III (1851), 33.
               
                     and intensely interesting. I compared the heads of my
                    acquaintance with phrenological drawings, and found many striking coincidences—thus was I
                    satisfied of its substantial truth.
            "My interest increased with extent of my observations until I abandoned practical medicine
                    for the exclusive study of Phrenology in the great volume of Nature. It was my object to detect the
                    defects of the system of Gall and Spurzheim."37
            
            But he was not satisfied merely to correct and expand the Gallian system of phrenology.
                    Fundamentally, Buchanan was a philosopher seeking answers to all the questions which had troubled
                    man from the dawn of time. He was searching for a "science of man," in the
                    broadest sense of the phrase—a science which would include not only the study of
                    man's mind but one which would comprehend the relationship between mind and body, between
                    man and his fellow man, and between man and his environment—a science which would define
                    and explain the connection between man and the universe, between man and God.
            According to Buchanan, up to that date there had been no true science of man, only four or five
                    partial ones. Metaphysics was one such partial science; phrenology was another, and the two differed
                    in that the latter looked "at human nature as it is, instead of looking for a theoretical
                    substratum." Metaphysics had proved itself inadequate, and phrenology had failed to devise
                    a true system of mental science because its discoveries were based only on an inadequate
                    cranioscopy, incompetent of revealing the true nature of the brain. Physiology and anatomy also had
                    failed because they revealed nothing of the power of the brain and therefore could not be
                    philosophical. Natural history, social history, and animal magnetism had brought to light many
                    wonderful facts, but without giving any satisfactory explanation for the nature of man.38
            
            Thus Buchanan adopted phrenology merely as a stepping stone toward something infinitely more
                    ambitious—a science which, if perfected would end all the age-old controversies relative
                    to the cause, purpose, and ultimate fate of man. He was groping for something akin to what modern
                    science calls 
                  
                     37 Joseph R. Buchanan, Outlines of Lectures on the
                                Neurological System of Anthropology, as Discovered Demonstrated and Taught in 1841 and
                                1842 (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1864), 31.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., 54.
               
                     psychology and psychiatry; but eventually Buchanan's
                    scheme went much further than either of these have dared to go.
            Such a science Buchanan first called anthropology. But this term he deemed inadequate; it implied
                    only a science of man, whereas his science was to include not only man but every living thing. A
                    more inclusive term was necessary. He decided on "neurology," which he defined as
                    the science of nervous matter—including man and all the animal kingdom.39
            
            Buchanan's main criticism of the Gallian system was that it was neither complete nor
                    symmetrical. "To the philosopher … it suggests the idea of an incomplete system
                    arrested in the midst of its progress." It seemed "deficient in analysis, and
                    overladen with arbitrary incongruous details." And it failed the test of practicality, a
                    basic claim of phrenology, because it gave no organ of the brain for many of the actions of man. He
                    thought that the phrenological system must refer "every decided or distinct tendency of
                    human nature … to a definite cerebral source," and that for each tendency there
                    must be an opposite tendency—and an organ for it. Upon these arguments he based his
                    conclusion that the Gallian system had two fundamental shortcomings: It was one-sided and
                    unbalanced, and, in consequence of its incompleteness, it was inconsistent with itself.40
            
            Buchanan regarded the phrenological system as a protest against the old metaphysicists, and declared
                    "either we must go back to the old Metaphysical ground, and deny that our passions and
                    faculties are connected with a definite portion of the brain …; or we must adopt the
                    Phrenological doctrine fully and unequivocally and carry it out to its legitimate
                    results. This is what the Gallian system has failed to do."41 All these
                    deficiencies Buchanan set out to correct; and with this work he evidently occupied most of his time
                    as a student at the 
                        Louisville
                     Medical Institute.
            The earlier phrenologists had relied upon three methods of investigation—vivisection,
                    pathology, and cranioscopy. Buchanan rejected all three. Vivisection—operating on living
                    animals—he dismissed as equally cruel and fruitless; pathology was out because there was
                    an insufficient knowledge of 
                  
                     39 Joseph R. Buchanan, "What is Neurology," Buchanan's Journal of Man, I, 5.
                  
                     40 Buchanan, System of Anthropology, 4–6.
                  
                     41
                     Ibid., 7.
               
                     cerebral physiology "to guide us," and,
                    though he considered cranioscopy the most simple and most successful method used up to that time,
                    even it could not perfect "nor positively demonstrate the science [of
                    phrenology]." Its drawback was that irregular thickness of the skull sometimes led to wrong
                    conclusions. In general, Buchanan wrote, the outline of the cranium indicated the true outline of
                    character; but over activity or under activity of any portion of the brain might cause variations
                    and the character will depart from the outline of the cranium. "Whenever the organs become
                    inactive through lack of exercise, they shrink in size, the bone thickens by growing inward, and the
                    skull becomes opaque." For these reasons bumps usually did not indicate brain development,
                    which, therefore, must be inferred from the general contour of the cranium.42
            
            In order to avoid these difficulties Buchanan early de doped a new method of investigation, which he
                    called the "sensitive mode." In using this method he watched the sensations which
                    various mental activities had on his head. He noted that a scholarly lecture gave him a
                    "marked sensation" in the upper portion of his forehead and concluded that this
                    was the region of greatest intelligence. In the same manner he located the organs of irritability,
                    anxiety, and many others. He also used the "intuitive method," which relied upon
                    the powers of clairvoyance to determine mental functions and localities by direct perception, and
                    believed that "a clairvoyant of a well disciplined philosophical mind, free from the errors
                    of imagination, is the true telescope and microscope of Phrenological science."43
            
            Relying on these modes of investigation, Buchanan discovered many errors in the Gallian system. For
                    example, he found cowardly men who had large bumps where Gall and Spunheim had located
                    combativeness, and proved, to his own satisfaction, that "the height of the head above the
                    earn did not prove a correct criterian of moral character."44
            
            By 1839 he had, by his own admission, "acquired possession of numerous, sound and
                    comprehensive principles," from which he soon formed a system of philosophy; and he had
                    discovered certain mathematical laws to be the basis of anthropology. 
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., 37–38, 57, 59.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., 50, 51.
                  
                     44
                     Ibid., 82.
               
                     "These principles being … based on anatomy
                    and pathognomy were styled the PATHOGNOMIC
                    SYSTEM."45
            
            This system Buchanan regarded as being near the true anthropology, but at the same time he realized
                    that by the methods he was pursuing "a lifetime would scarcely be sufficient to re-organize
                    the science," and he determined "to find some shorter road to the arcana of
                    Cerebral Physiology."46 It occurred to him that if some external agent
                    could be found which would stimulate the different portions of the brain "80 as to
                    manifest, on the instant, and in a striking manner, their peculiar functions," then both
                    the speed and accuracy of his experiments would be greatly improved.47
                    Experimenting first with magnetism and then with galvanism he dismissed both as impractical for his
                    purpose. He then tried a more ambitious plan, "believing that the nervous fluid, or
                    nervaura, was closely analogous to galvanism, and was continually radiated by the human
                    constitution, I applied this influence by touch to the head of a highly impressible and cultivated
                    lady … with the successful result of exciting every point that I touched." It
                    was while lecturing in 
                        Little Rock
                    , 
                        Arkansas
                    , in the spring of 1841, that this wonderful discovery was made; and Buchanan was now
                    satisfied that he had found the key to the true anthropology.48
            
            Buchanan's explanation for this phenomenon was that in the nervous system of every living
                    thing there was a nervaurk fluid or impulse, "which is radiated and conducted freely from
                    the human hand."49 This nervaura, flowing from the fingers of the
                    operator, in turn would be strong enough to stimulate the organs of another person with which the
                    fingers of the operator made contact, provided the organs of the subject were sufficiently
                    sensitive, or "impressible," to react to the stimulus. From this explanation he
                    adopted the term "impressibility" to describe the capacity of an individual to
                    respond to the nervauric impulses flowing from another person.
            
               
                  45
                        Ibid., 33.
               
                  46 Joseph R. Buchanan, Sketches of Buchanan's
                            Discoveries in Neurology (
                            Louisville
                        , 1842), 9.
               
                  47 Robert D. Owen Neurology An Account of Some Experiments in
                            Cerebral Physiology (Londan, 1856), 3.
               
                  48 Buchanan, System of Anthropology, 33.
               
                  49 Joseph R. Buchanan, "Neurology in 
                            New York
                        ," Buchanan's Journal of Man, I,
                        1–2.
            
            
            The discoverer of this amazing power believed that it was comparable to "the discovery of 
                        Columbus
                    ," and that it had been overlooked through the ages only because of its
                    "very simplicity." The revelation of the powers of impressibility changed
                    neurology "from a mere anatomical description of nervous cords and masses, to a
                    comprehensive science embracing all the functions of mind and body."50
                    He doubted not that it opened up a whole new world for exploration and later wrote that had men been
                    open-minded enough to accept it the year 1841 would have been "the most significant epoch
                    in history—the year in which mankind added psychic to physical science."51
            
            Nor was he slow to put this new power to use. By 1842 he was almost overcome by the results of his
                    experiments, and marveled that results of such magnitude had been so speedily and so correctly
                    attained by one "whom neither years nor official honors have placed in [an] authoritative a
                    position." Triumphantly announcing that within a single month he had been able to learn
                    more of the brain's physiology than previously had been acquired by all the physiologists
                    and pathologists who had worked on the subject, he boasted that: "It is in my power to
                    excite, in a few moments, any portion of the brain, either large or small; to put that portion into
                    full and vigorous action as an efficient portion of the character of the person upon whom I operate,
                    and then, at will, suspend its action, and excite the action of its antagonist organ, or of any
                    other, or group of organs that I choose to bring into play.
            "Thus I make my subjects alternately laugh and weep, reason profoundly of moral truths, and
                    then, without any reason, draw the fist to strike; express the deepest humility, or self-sufficiency
                    and levity; sit for hours with the greatest patience, or leap up with passionate restlessness;
                    express the finest moral sentiments, or assume the manners and feelings of the miser and thief;
                    indulge in eating, and drink strong liquor, or assume a moral dignity, despise sensuality and speak
                    of food with loathing; feel the most exalted moral and religious sentiments, or indulge in levity
                    with an inclination to be vulgar.52
            
            
               
                  50 Buchanan, "What is Neurology," ibid., 6.
               
                  51 Joseh R. Buchanan Therapeutic Sarcognomy, A Scientific
                            Exposition of the Mysterious Union of Soul, Brain and Body.., (
                            Boston
                        , 1884), 1–2.
               
                  52 Bochanan, Discoveries in Neurology, 4–5,
                        6, 10–11.
            
            
            Buchanan's dream had been realized; he had found the key to the secrets of mind and body.
                    With access to these secrets he devoted himself to the task of evolving and organizing a system of
                    moral philosophy and pseudo-medical science which caused an even more violent reaction among medical
                    scientists than had homeopathy, eclecticism, and all the other cults of the period.
         
         
         
            Michael C. Garber, Sr., and the Early Years of the 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, Daily Courier
            
            
                    Frank S. Baker*
               
                
            W. H. Gray founded the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier in May, 1837. He was, however, not the first Madisonian to enter the
                    newspaper field. Seth M. Leavenworth and William Hendricks, who was later chosen governor of
                    Indiana, jointly started the Western Eagle, the first issue coming off the press
                    on May 26, 1813. John Paul, one of 
                        Madison
                    's earliest residents, was the proprietor. It was the state's
                    second paper. Four months after the Western Eagle was founded, Hendricks resigned
                    as editor in favor of Jacob Rhoads. In July, 1815, the publication was moved to 
                        Lexington
                    , Indiana, with Rhoads continuing as editor.1 Other early papers
                    published in 
                        Madison
                     included the Indiana Republican
               2 and the Banner.
            From the few extant copies of the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier edited by Gray, there is evidence that he attempted to issue a daily at
                    least part of the two and one-half years during which he was owner. Thus, in a sense he holds the
                    distinction of editing Indiana's first daily newspaper. Gray sold the paper to Rolla
                    Doolittle and A. C. Grady in November, 1839. Doolittle was apparently the active partner. Four years
                    later the paper changed ownership again; this time it was S. F. Covington who "took
                    over."
            Even though Doolittle had many a creditor by 1843, 
                        Covington
                     got a clear start, thanks to his predecessor. A court verdict ordered that the Courier plant be confiscated and sold. When the sheriff arrived to carry out the
                    orders of the court, he found no printing plant. The night before, Doolittle and his men had knocked
                    out the wall between the shop and the adjoining building and sealed the exit. Thus the property
                    could not be taken over legally since the location of the plant 
                  
                     * Frank S. Baker is assistant professor of English and Journalism at 
                                Hanover
                             College, 
                                Hanover
                            , Indiana
                  
                     1 Clarence S. Brigham, History and Bibliography of
                                American News-papers, 1690–1830 (2 vols., 
                                Worcester
                            . 
                                Massachusetts
                            , 1947) I, 141–42; Blanche G. Garber, "Colonel John Paul,
                            Hoosier Pioneer," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1905-), XIII (1917), 141.
                  
                     2 It was founded in December, 1816, by Samuel Pelham and later edited
                            by John Lodge.
               
                     had changed. By the time the court had convened again Doolittle
                    had transferred ownership to Covinston.3
            
            One of the many cholera epidemics of that era struck 
                        Madison
                     particularly hard in 1849. S. F. and John B. Covington had just started the Daily Courier on April 30, 1849, with the promise "that we intend the
                    paper shall be continued for one year, whether profitable or unprofitable."4 According to Michael E. Garber, present owner of the Daily Courier, the
                    Covingtons moved to Rising Sun, Indiana, to escape the 1849 epidemic. There a business trade was
                    completed with one Michael Christian Garber, owner of a general store. Thus the Covingtons entered
                    merchandising whereas Garber left it. In their "valedictory" the retiring owners
                    indicated full confidence in Garber as a competent successor and stated that he had the
                    "energy, the ability, and the disposition to improve" the paper.5
            
            Michael C. Garber was born in 
                        Staunton
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    , in 1813 of Scots-Irish descent. Early boyhood training in stage coaching was followed
                    by merchandising experience with an uncle who lived in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . For eight years Garber was in the "forwarding" business, that of
                    carrying freight by canal and railroad between 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and 
                        Philadelphia
                    . He came to Rising Sun in 1846 to set up a store with his brother. Three years later he
                    moved to 
                        Madison
                     as the new owner of the Daily Courier.
            Although he had had no previous newspaper experience, Michael Garber was soon to show that he
                    possessed that quality which often meant the difference between a good and a great
                    publisher—fearlessness. Under 
                        Covington
                     the paper had supported the Democratic party. In fact, it was generally considered to
                    be the personal organ of 
                        United States
                     Senator Jesse D. Bright, 
                        Madison
                     resident. Garber also was a Democrat; 80 it was expected that he would promise his
                    readers in his first issue to "use all the time, energy, and talents" he had to
                    make the Daily Courier a Democratic paper, "devoted to the cause of the
                        massea."6
            
            Three weeks later he reaffirmed his party allegiance and extolled the prosperity of the state after
                    six years under Democratic 
                  
                     3
                            
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, Daily Courier, April 28, 1937.
                  
                     4 There in no evidence that the paper was losing money when it was
                            sold in July.
                  
                     5
                            
                                Madison
                            , Indiana Daily Courier, July 11, 1849.
                  
                     6
                     Ibid.
               
                     rule.7 Garber, however, was aware of the
                    fact that neither of the major parties had yet taken a clear stand on the slavery question. He
                    recognized that both parties had their proslavery and antislavery factions. The result of the
                    national election of 1848 made that clear when Zachary Taylor was victorious in seven free states
                    and eight slave.
            By 1852, Garber was bemoaning the low ebb of political strife. "PARTY ISSUES! What has
                    become of them?" he cried. And yet the 
                        Madison
                     editor did not hesitate to condemn the actions of his own party if they were not
                    acceptable to him. He spoke strongly for freedom of speech and press, writing, "Nor do we
                    intend to allow either to be curtailed or hedged round, in our person or press." Again two
                    years later he asserted his editorial independence. He was even more outspoken in 1853 when he wrote
                    boldly: "We belong to each party as long as we believe its actions right and conducive to
                    the best interests of the masses of the people, and we feel as free to condemn what we consider
                    wrong in the course of the administration of Presidentt Pierce as we approve that which we deem
                    good." By 1864 when the Whigs and Democrats as they were then organized were on their way
                    out as significant political parties, editor Garber said that his party was the masses of the
                        people.8
            
            It was this growing freedom to express in print his convictions regardless of patty affiliation that
                    eventually brought on difficulties between the editor and Senator Bright. When the Indiana Statesman accused Garber of being a Bright underling, the 
                        Madison
                     editor denied it emphatically. Yet two months later the Daily Courier
                    editorially favored the selection of Bright as a representative from 
                        Jefferson County
                     to the state constitutional convention. It also attacked the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Banner's charge that Bright was betraying his constituents. As late as
                    January, 1851, the Daily Courier urged the election of Bright to the 
                        United States
                     Senate.9 So far Senator Bright and Michsel C. Garber seemed to be
                    in agreement. But the honeymoon was soon to end.
            On October 23, 1850, there appeared in 'the Daily Courier an editorial
                    strongly opposing the Fugitive Slave Law. "We 
                  
                     7
                     Ibid., July 31,1849.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., July 28, 1852, April 20, 1850, September 9, 1852, December 19,
                            1853, May 19, 1854.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid, March 16, 1850, April 13, 1850, January 4, 1851.
               
                     don't, can't like it. It is repugnant to
                    all the feelings of a man living in a free State…. For our part, as we are a law-loving
                    and law-abiding citizen, should we hear a cry for help to catch a fugitive from bondage, we would
                    turn one deaf ear and blind eye."
            Since Bright believed that his hometown paper should never print anything that was not in accord with
                    his personal views, he apparently influenced the editor of the Indiana State
                    Journal, John Defrees, to take Garber to task for printing an editorial so definitely opposed
                    to the views of the senator. Still the editor from 
                        Madison
                     remained reasonably calm, referring to Defrees as one who "elevated his ears
                    and brayed a four-line paragraph at us, and in those four lines it has managed to
                    tell two lies." Garber admitted differing with the senator on many issues but recognized
                    that Bright was fearless yet aware of the rights of other people.10
            
            The senator's attitude toward Garber is quite understandable when one realizes that Bright
                    was an autocrat. He "classed every man as foe who would not do his bidding, and made
                    personal devotion to himself the test of Democracy."11
            
            Bright was reelected on January 11, 1851. As has been indicated, in the main Garber supported the
                    senator even though he did take issue with him on the slavery question. The first overt act in the
                    quarrel came when the Indiana House of Representatives passed a resolution forbidding distribution
                    of the Daily Courier in the house chambers. NO longer was Garber calm. He lashed
                    out vehemently at the solons: "The 'savans' of the House, it appears,
                    do not like independence and straight-forward dealing in an editor, and have wilfully shut their
                    doors against light and truth. This body, had it the power, would establish a censorship over the
                    Press of the State; and would forbid every article that in the least related to their
                    'high mightiness,' except in terms of praise."12
            
            Further differences between Garber and Bright developed when the latter attacked the administration
                    of Governor Joseph A. Wright. Garber cited evidence to show that Bright believed the governor to be
                    a "d—d corrupt scoundrel." He 
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., December 7, 1850.
                  
                     11 William W. Woollen, Biographical and Historical
                                Sketches of Early Indiana (Indianapols, 1883), 223.
                  
                     12
                            
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, Daily Courier, February 4, 1851.
               
                     reviewed the facts of the quarrel between him and Bright and
                    explained that the latest act of the senator was to have nothing more to do with the Daily Courier. Bright had the right to establish his own paper if he so wished, stated
                    Garber, "but what right has he to crush us?"13
            
            As far as the senator was concerned, Garber was neither a loyal Democrat or even a respectable
                    citizen of 
                        Madison
                    . In a letter addressed to Judge William M. Taylor of 
                        Madison
                     which was inadvertently delivered to another Taylor, a friend of Garber who turned the
                    letter over to the editor, the senator wrote that Garber is "deadly
                    hostile at heart to me, and has been for the last twelve months" and that he is
                    "too low and corrupt a scoundrel to entitle him to my notice… and I intend to
                    use my efforts to bring about a short peace, which will result in the expulsion of this
                    dam'd scoundrel from our ranks."14
            
            Now the war was in the open. Garber fully understood the basic cause, that he would not "bow
                    down and worship" Bright. This reaction is more clearly explained when one knows that on
                    July 8, Garber was "mad out" of the Democratic party at a meeting in the 
                        Madison
                     courthouae.15
            
            Finally on July 26, 1851, the editor held no punches. He forgot any good that the senator had
                    achieved. The man from 
                        Washington
                     was base and corrupt. He did not even have a basic knowledge of Indiana geography!
                    "Can he tell yon the counties in whose bosom the coal and the iron ore lay now
                    unproductive? Can he tell you the difference between the soils of Jefferson and 
                        Tippecanoe
                    ?" Garber's final blow came when he referred to Bright as an
                    "expert political manager," "wire-worker," and
                    "straw-puller."
            A large number of Madisonians, however, were loyal to the editor of the Daily
                    Courier. At a Democratic mass meeting in 
                        Madison
                     on July 26, Garber's character was fully endorsed and his actions given
                    hearty support. Similar endorsement came to the editor through a meeting in North 
                        Madison
                     three days later. The Daily Courier ah made much of a letter from
                    Governor Wright in which he referred to Garber as "a consistent Democrat."16
            
            
               
                  13
                        Ibid., June 19, 1851.
               
                  14 William S. Garber, "Jesse D. Bright and Michael C.
                        Garber," Indiana Magazine of History, XXVIII (1932), 35; 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana, Daily Courier, June 23, 1851.
               
                  15
                        
                            Madison
                        , Indiana, Daily Courier, July 12, 1851; Garber, "Jesse
                        D. Bright and Michael C. Garber," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        XXVIII, 84.
               
                  16
                        
                            Madison
                        , Indiana, Daily Courier, July 30, 1851, August 28, 1851.
            
            
            Meanwhile, Bright was not idle. He called Rolla Doolittle, former Courier editor,
                    back into the newspaper field to edit the new Madisonian, the first issue of which
                    appeared on July 25, 1851. Soon Robert S. Sproule of 
                        Washington
                     D.C., was put in as coeditor. It was Sproule who threw the barbs at Garber and thus
                    greatly precipitated the final episode in this Democratic quarrel.17
            
            On January 25, 1862, a public meeting was held to arrange for the coming of the famous Hungarian
                    statesman and patriot, Louis Kossuth, to 
                        Madison
                    . Garber and Hamilton Hibbs, a Bright man, were members of the reception committee. A
                    notice signed by Hibbs appeared in the Madisonian on the following day in which he
                    stated that he "would rather be associated with a negro than such men [Garber and hie
                    assistant C. P. Baymiller]." Thus he declined to serve on the committee.
            This was the last straw. Hibbs, a carpenter, was probably told by the Madisonian
                    editor, who well may have written the notice himself, to hang around the Courier
                    office, which was next door to the Madisonian office, to see what Garber would do
                    when he read the notice after issues had been exchanged by the two journals. Another version of the
                    story is that Hibbs was going home from work and "happened" to pass the Courier plant exit just as the editor came forth.
            In any case Garber with the latest insult fresh in his mind upon seeing Hibbs spat in his face and
                    struck him. Hibbs quickly pulled a conveniently located chisel and plunged it into
                    Garber's chest. The 
                        Madison
                    
                    Banner of January 29, 1852, described the incident: "At a late hour
                    yesterday afternoon great excitement was produced in our streets by a violent and bloody collision
                    that occurred between M. C. Garber, principal editor of the Courier, and Hamilton Hibbs, in which
                    the former received three very severe, probably mortal, stabs by a chisel in the hand of the
                    latter." The contrite Hibbs came often to the Garber home to learn of the condition of his
                    victim. The Daily Courier published regular reports on its editor's
                    state of health starting on January 31 and ending with the favorable report that Garber was
                    "out of all danger from his 
                  
                     17 Garber, "Jesse D. Bright and Michael C. Garber,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, XXVIII. 36; Charles B. Murphy,
                            "The Political Career of Jesse D. Bright," Indiana Historical Society Publications (Indianpolis, 1895-),X (1930), 118.
               
                     wounds" on February 12. He returned to part-time duty
                    on March 1. No legal proceedings developed from the incident.
            The difficulties between Bright and Garber have been developed at some length for several reasons.
                    First, the quarrel shows that the editor was certainly in the stream of personal journalism which
                    was coming to dominate the American journalistic scene through such nationally known figures as the
                    James Gordon Bennetts, Horace Greeley, and Joseph Medill. Then one can see that
                    "Mike" Garber and his Courier represented a potent force in
                    Indiana politics.
            Garber used his editorial columns, however, for other than personal diatribes. He expressed himself
                    vigorously, though not always fluently, on the leading questions of the day. "We hate
                    slavery as much as man can hate sin," he wrote: "and there is only one thing we
                    hate worse than slavery —Disunion." He refused to accept the thesis that the
                    slavery question was a "temporary struggle for political equality." He insisted
                    that the Union was at stake.18
            
            He indicated an advanced view on citizenship as it related to the race question when he opposed the
                    stand of John M. Clayton, Secretary of State of the 
                        United States
                    , who refused to grant a passport to a Negro, a 
                        United States
                     citizen. "lf the negro, or any negro, be a
                    citizen," stated editor Garber, "he is entitled to a passport just the same as a
                    white man who is a citizen."19 And this was written on the banks of the 
                        Ohio
                     River!
            In keeping with the current prohibition crusade Garber took an oft-repeated stand against the use of
                    spirits: "Let no advice, however renowned, seduce you into the dangers that beset those who
                    handle the alluring bowl."20
            
            Labor came in for favorable recognition in an editorial in which Garber advocated high pay as the
                    reward for good work. "A bare subsistance is not enough for good workmen; they should have
                    something to lay up for old age."21
            
            Usually his prose was somewhat cumbersome. Yet in the Daily Courier of September
                    22, 1854, Garber became especially lucid and fluent in his generalizations on politics.
                    "The true 
                  
                     18
                            
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, Daily Courier, February 18, 1850, August 2, 1850.
                  
                     19
                     Ibid., August 22, 1849.
                  
                     20
                     Ibid., August 9, 1849.
                  
                     21
                     Ibid., April 19, 1853.
               
                     American is always a politician, but never a partizan. As a
                    part of the governing power of the country, he is responsible for its policy, and is bound to exert
                    his political influence in behalf of what he considers the right and the true glory of the nation.
                    But he will act from his own convictions, not from the dictations of a party. All political parties,
                    from their very nature, are liable to become corrupted; it is the citizen's duty to see
                    that they do not corrupt him. He will use parties as a means of enforcing his political convictions,
                    but he will be careful that they do not use him. … He who gives up his conscience to the
                    keeping of the party, has made shipwreck of his principles, and becomes a traitor to his country. On
                    the other hand, he who shrinks from politics because they are impure, neglects the duty of a
                    citizen, and imperils his country's safety."
            The Daily Courier of this period contained chiefly advertisements. Over half of the
                    front page was so filled. The rest of the page contained general information of a standing nature
                    together with a continued article, story, or reprints from other newspapers. The second page
                    featured several columns of editorial comment and local news with detail accounts of governmental
                    proceedings. Except for telegraphic news and legal notices pages three and four had advertisements
                    whose copy was changed very infrequently.
            The Daily Courier doubtless did a service to its readers in publishing such
                    documents as the new state constitution, the complete report of the Select Committee of Thirteen on
                    the Slavery Compromise, and the testimony of the Webster-Parkman trial. Debates in the state and
                    national legislative bodies were frequently printed in their entirety.
            These were great days for 
                        Madison
                    . During the late forties and early fifties the city was one of the leading industrial
                    centers of the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley. It grew from a population of 3,798 in 1840 to 9,839 in 1850,22 more than it is able to claim one hundred years later! 
                        Indianapolis
                    , founded later but growing rapidly during this period, was jealous of 
                        Madison
                    's leadership.
            Issues of the Daily Courier indicate the importance of pork packing houses. Hogs,
                    fattened on the many species of nut trees found in southern Indiana, were raised at little or no
                    expense and brought by the thousands to 
                        Madison
                     for slaughtering. 
                  
                     22
                     Ibid., October 25, 1850.
               
                     On a per capita basis 
                        Madison
                     slaughtered five times as many hogs in 1850 as did 
                        Cincinnati
                    . As forests were cleared from the area, however, the supply of food for hogs
                    proportionately diminished and the importance of the pork slaughtering decreased.23
            
            Woollen's description of the "Golden Era" is vivid: "She [
                        Madison
                    ] was the entrepot of the merchandise sold and consumed in Indiana.
                    She was the gate at which the traveler entered the State. She had three wholesale dry goods houses,
                    and as many wholesale groceries and boot and shoe establishments. She was one of the largest
                    pork-packing points in the country. No less than four establishments were engaged in the killing and
                    packing of hogs, one of them being the largest then in the world. She had a starch manufactory on
                    Crooked creek and a glue factory just outside the city limits. She had several of the largest
                    flouring mills west of the Allegheny mountains. She had three large iron foundries, a brass foundry,
                    a boiler manufactory, and many other establishments of great value. She had a chamber of commerce, a
                    reading room, and a public library. In addition to the magnificent '
                        Pike
                    ' and the 'Ben 
                        Franklin
                    ,' which landed daily at her wharfs, she had daily lines of steam packets to 
                        Cincinnati
                     and to 
                        Louisville
                    , and a regular one to 
                        Frankfort
                    . Her wharfs were covered with hogheads of sugar and molasses from 
                        New Orleans
                    , and with boxes and bales of merchandise from the Atlantic slope. Her streets were
                    crowded with men who me to buy her merchandise and her manufactured goods. Her citizens were jostled
                    on the sidewalks by strangers who came hither to view her greatness, or to enter Indiana through her
                        portals."24
            
            Editor Garber would certainly have approved this glowing tribute to 
                        Madison
                    's glory; in fact, he included fighting men, duelists, and pretty women as
                    objects of civic pride. He was proud of Indiana too. Garber was certain that no state in the Union
                    would be more influential or hold a higher rank than his own.25
            
            The Daily Courier did its part to help justify such strong 
                  
                     23 The Women's Club of 
                                Madison
                            , "The History of 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana Magazine of History, XVI (1920), 320; 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, Daily Courier, December 18, 1850.
                  
                     24 Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches,
                            536–37.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, Daily Courier, September 1, 1851, December 4,
                        1850.
               
                     state and civic pride. The editor said that no paper in Indiana
                    or, for that matter, anywhere else in the Union could boast of a "more liberal set of
                        patrons."26 The publishing plant kept pace with mechanical
                    developments too. Steam took over the task of running the press in 1853, relieving staff members of
                    a difficult manual task. The following year a three-story building, probably erected in 1832 and
                    previously used for a ship's chandlery, was purchased as the new home for the Courier. The newspaper was published in this building for seventy-two years.
            During the 1860 presidential campaign Garber staunchly supported the candidacy of Republican Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    . This stand requires explanation. It was chiefly over the 
                        Kansas
                    - 
                        Nebraska
                     Act that the Democratic party split.
            The Whig party had for all intents and purposes become ineffective. In their 1854 convention the
                    anti- 
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats bolted and called a meeting of their own at 
                        Danville
                    . Other "revolt" meetings were held throughout the state. The
                    Jefferaon County conclave on June 13, 1854, found Garber as an active participant. The Daily Courier dramatically described those who attended the meeting: "It was not
                    the grog shop republicans and the cross roads politicians who assembled yesterday…. They
                    were the solid men of the country of all parties: farmers who had dropped the work on their farms as
                    did the farmers on the vicinity of 
                        Concord
                     and 
                        Lexington
                     in 1775, in the busiest season of the year; mechanics who had left their work-shops to
                    vindicate free labor and to protest against the iniquity of the 
                        Nebraska
                     and 
                        Kansas
                     bill, composed this the longest meeting held in 
                        Madison
                     since the canvas of 1844."27 This group voted to oppose
                    the re-election of all senators and representatives from a northern state who aided in the repeal of
                    the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise.
            At the state convention of July 13, 1854, it was Garber who again played a leading role. In reporting
                    on the meeting he wrote that the delegates were "democrats, Whigs and free soilers, all of
                    whom had come determined to bury old patty affiliations and act together in [the] future to effect a
                    restoration of the 
                        Missouri
                     act." The convention passed a resolution uncompromisingly opposing the
                    extension of slavery and at 
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., November 22, 1849.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., June 14, 1854.
               
                     tacking the platform adopted by the
                    "self-styled" Democratic convention approving the 
                        Kansas
                    - 
                        Nebraska
                     "iniquity."28
            
            Naturally Garber could not hold an important post in the revolt movement without drawing fire. A
                    radical religious journal called the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Platform classed him aa a "rank infidel, whose library is filled with
                    infidel works, and whose scoffs at religion and the Bible are notorious throughout 
                        Jefferson county
                    ."29 The editor tossed off the charges with a shrug.
            By 1855 the term "Republican" was regularly being attached to the anti- 
                        Nebraska
                     group. The movement was making steady headway in Indiana. The 1855 
                        Indianapolis
                     convention had double the number of delegates who attended the meeting of 1854.30
            
            
               
                        Pittsburgh
                     was the scene of the first national convention of the Republican party on February 22,
                    1856. Michael Garber was there. Starting on March 3 the Daily Courier carried in
                    its masthead the three-point platform adopted by this convention: (1) repeal of all laws allowing
                    introduction of slavery into the territories, (2) admission of 
                        Kansas
                     into the Union as a free state, and (3) overthrow of the current national
                    administration which it termed "weak and faithless."31
            
            But Garber did not stop here. He helped organize a Republican Association for 
                        Jefferson County
                    .32 Two years later he was made chairman of the State Central
                    Committee. So when the 1860 presidential election occurred, it was not surprising to find Garber
                    giving staunch support to 
                        Lincoln
                    's candidacy.
            Although Michael C. Garber, Sr., was active head of the Courier until his death in
                    1881, his most significant contribution to his city and state came in those six or seven years after
                    1849. Thus the following tribute, although possibly a little too glowing, describes the Mike Garber
                    of 1849–1866: "Colonel Garber was a strong man, possessing an unusual
                    independence of character and abundant common sense. He thought deeply, read intelligently, and
                    formed his own conclusions. While always reasonable, willing to confer and counsel with others,
                        
                  
                     28
                     Ibid., July 16, 1854.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., August 26, 1854.
                  
                     30
                     Ibid., July 14, 1855.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., March 5, 1856.
                  
                     32
                     Ibid., March 10, 1856.
               
                     he accepted no man's dictum. His defiance of
                    generally accepted leadership in his own party, when it stood opposed to his own sense of right,
                    evidences his moral courage and self-reliance. As a writer, he was plain, direct, powerful, going
                    straight to the mark without circumlocution or unnecessary verbiage. His judgment as to news was
                    discriminating, his business ability large. He was a brave man, kind-hearted and true, radical in
                    his views, just in his judgments, honest in every impulse of his nature."33
            
            
               
                  33 George I. Reed, Encyclopedia of Biography of Indiana
                        (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1895–1899), I, 312–13.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            Description of Early 
                        Bloomington
                    
            
            
                    Contributed by Mary B. Craig*
               
                
            The letters which follow were written by two former Indiana University students giving a description
                    of 
                        Bloomington
                     in 1839 and 1846.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Fort Adams Newport R. I.
                           
                                    Feby 1–1891
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        I am in receipt of your letter of Jany. 12th
                        I am inclined to think that Major 
                                        Mitchell
                                     must have got things a little mixed in relating to you the incident of
                                    my journey to the University. Which was by no means an eventful one.
                        I rode on the Stage from my home (Napoleon Ind) to Indianapolih— And
                                    having waited there over two days Two others and myself concluded to
                                    walk— The Stage running from 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     had been detained by heavy rains) After a walk of eight or ten miles We
                                    stopped at a Farm House and asked if we could get some dinner. A very nice dinner
                                    was Served us for which we were charged 12 1/2 cents each. The cheapness of the
                                    dinner, considering its quality was re-marke[d] upon when one of the party told of a
                                    Man travelling through the state, Sometime before, on horseback; Night coming on he
                                    approached a well to-do looking farm house and enquired if he could get
                                    accommodation for his horse & himself for the Night The farmer assented but
                                    told him that they had just had a wedding and they would all sit down to the Wedding
                                    supper, and if he would join them he would be welcome, but they did not have time to
                                    prepare a seperate Supper for him He partook of the wedding Supper— and
                                    Next Morning after a comfortable rest and Breakfast, had his horse brought out, and
                                    asked the farmer how much he should pay for his accommodation. The farmer replied
                                    "you don't think 6 cents too much do you" The bill was
                                    paid and the traveller went on his way—
                        I think this is what Major 
                                        Mitchell
                                     Meant by a wedding feast
                        We walked as far as 
                                        Martinsburg
                                     that day and next morning very tired and Sore started on our
                                    journey— About four 
                              
                                 * Mrs. Mary B. Craig is the archivist of Indiana
                                            University,
                           
                                     miles out we saw a man ploughing, with a span
                                    of horses, in a field, and for a consideration, induced him to take his horses from
                                    the plough, hitch up a wagon and take us on to 
                                        Bloomington
                                    .
                        My career at 
                                        Bloomington
                                     was was uneventful— and lasted about one year
                        
                                    I am very Resp[ectfull]y Your Obdt Svt
                                    John Mendenhall1 Colonel 2d Arty 
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Marshall, Ill.
                           
                                    February 4th 1888
                                
                        Judge D. D. Banta 
                                        Franklin
                                     Ind.
                        Dear Sir.
                        Your letter reached here, during my absence in Ky, whence I returned a day or two
                                    since. I would with much pleasure give you any information I can in reference to the
                                    town and surroundings of My old "Alma Mater" the pleasant Memories
                                    of which, is indeed the "Greenest spot in Memories waste" but when
                                    you consider, that it is now nearly fifty years since I was a
                                    student at the University, and have not been there since, but once, and then only
                                    passing through in a car; and besides being quite young. When there, my
                                    recollections as to persons, and places must necessarily be somewhat vague and not
                                    very satisfactory, yet I will try to answer your questions as well
                                    as I can, Seriatim—
                        First—My remembrance of the town of 
                                        Bloomington
                                    , at the time I first saw it, was not very favorable— I
                                    reached there at night on horseback; it was dark and raining. I was very tired and
                                    already homesick, and my boy anticipations of what a College life would be, was
                                    somewhat dampened at the start—I "put up" at the
                                    "Orchard House"2 then the beat Hotel in the
                                    town. And where I boarded for a few weeks— The Orchard House was situate
                                    [d] near the square, and on the street leading therefrom to the College—
                                    The town I remember at that time had but few improvement— The streets
                                    south and west 
                              
                                 1 John Mendenhall was a student at Indiana University
                                            in 1846. Theophilus A. Wylie, Indiana University, Its History
                                                From 1820, When Founded, to 1890 (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1890), 431.
                              
                                 2 Samuel M. and John Orchard came to 
                                                Bloomington
                                             and started a wool carding machine which they operated from
                                            1823 to 1836. They built the Orchard House Charles Blanchard. (ed.), Counties of Morgan 
                                                    Monroe
                                                 and Brown, Indiana (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1884), 586.
                           
                                     of the Court House, and the street as far south
                                    as Mr Howe's residence. Near the Orchard House, were the only ones which
                                    were paved with brick; the others which were used much, had generally two pieces of
                                    hewn timber laid along, as a substitute for pavements. Such an Ave[nue] we used down
                                    to the Campus— The Court House then was a small square building, located
                                    in the Center of the square, as nearly all the Court Houses were at that time both
                                    in Ind and Ill— The principal business houses, were located on the south
                                    and west sides of the square. indeed I think there were comparatively none or very
                                    few buildings on the other sides, excepting a brick residence on the NW corner. I
                                    think occupied by Mr Barny—Indeed there were few good business houses, or
                                    residences in 
                                        Bloomington
                                     at that time. My recollection is, that the Orchard House was by far the
                                    most imposing structure in the town—I do not remember very many of the
                                    persons who were in business at that time, as my acquaintance with them was quite
                                    limited, owing perhaps, in part to the fact, that I had but little money to spend in
                                    cultivating their acquaintance, this you will more comprehend, when I tell you that
                                    my entire expenditures per session for boarding, tuition books and incidental
                                    necessary expenses were from 75$ to 100$: these expenses compared with the amount
                                    required at the present day, to get a boy through a session at College is very
                                    noted. I have educated three of my sons, and two daughters at College. And their
                                    expenses average 3508 to 400$ per session—Besides the Orchard House, I
                                    remember the Hite house, and Robinson house at both of which I also boarded at the
                                    latter James Whitcomb was also a boarder (afterwards Gov of Ind) the names of the
                                    only merchants I now recall were Mr Howe, Mr. Johnson dry goods. And Old Man
                                        Parks3 and— (a son in law) who sold books and
                                    stationary. Mr Parks was at the time professor in the preparatory deptmt—
                                    My recollection is that the woods or forests crowded up to the town on all sides,
                                    excepting on the south Dr Wylie'4 residence was in a
                                    thick wood, east 
                              
                                 3 Beaumont Parks a native of 
                                                Connecticut
                                             and educated at Dartmouth, came to 
                                                Bloomington
                                             in the fall of 1832 and left in 1839. James A. Woodburn, History of Indiana University, 1820–1902 (n.p.,
                                            1940), 97, 98, 99,120.
                              
                                 4 Andrew Wylie, a native of 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                            , was the first president of Indiana University, and served that
                                            institution from 1829 until 1851, Wylie, Indiana
                                            University, 91–94,
                           
                                     of the College, and I think the east line of
                                    the campus was bordered by the same forest.
                        I also boarded one session at Mr A Buskirks,5 probably about
                                    halfway from the square to the College. And I think his house was the last one going
                                    from town, on that side of the street, until you got to the corner near the Campus,
                                    where there was a small frame dwelling—there was no forest trees I think
                                    en route, but the ground was cleared and fenced.
                        The campus was if I remember right fenced, I think on the North and West, with
                                    boards, the remainder with Rails, I think it was about cleared of forest trees, but
                                    some small trees were here and there planted— I think the east part of
                                    the grounds was quite stumpy The walls of the new College were
                                    built, when I went there, and under cover, and I think some of the rooms were
                                    temporarily finished and used for recitation and lecture rooms by some of the
                                    Professors— The old College building which was generally used at that
                                    time, was an old structure much delapidated, at least in appearance, I would guess the building to have been say 60 40 feet, two stories high,
                                    with a hall through the Center—in the South room prayers were held in the
                                    morning. And the Roll Called— and it was in this room, Prest Wylie
                                    determined to abandon the Roll Call, in consequent of an incident which there
                                    occured—One of the students name was Andrew J Thickstone, and in calling
                                    the roll one morning, the Caller emphasized so decidedly on the Stone. Thickstone). that a general laugh ensued, and thus the roll calling was
                                    abandoned and never again required.
                        I have scratched off hurriedly this morning the foregoing crude reminiscences of 
                                        Bloomington
                                    , and regret that I cannot make them more satisfactory to myself, or
                                    more interesting to you, but if they can serve you any purpose, I will be glad, and
                                    if I can in the future aid you in any way, command me.
                        
                                    Yours truly
                                    R. L. Dulaney6
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  5 This was probably Abram Buskirk, a native of 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , settled in 
                            Monroe
                         County in 1820 and removed. to 
                            Bloomington
                         in 1831 where he was a stonemason. Blanchard, Counties of Morgan, 
                                Monroe
                             and Brown, Indiana, p. 555.
               
                  6 Robert L. Dulaney of York, 
                            Illinois
                        , was a student at Indiana University in 1839. Wylie, Indiana
                            University, 401.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Papers of Sir William Johnson, Volume X (1768–1763). Prepared for
                    publication by Milton W. Hamilton, Senior Historian, the Division of Archives and History, and
                    Albert B. Corey, Director and State Historian of 
                        New York
                    . (
                        Albany
                    : University of the State of 
                        New York
                    , 1961, pp. xiv, 998. Map and illustrations. $5.00.)
            After the fire in the 
                        New York
                     Archives in 1911, somewhat more tragic even than the recent one in 
                        Ohio
                    , the officials in charge, Dr. James Sullivan, Dr. Richard E. Day, and Dr. Alexander C.
                    Flick, published eight, large volumes of the Sir William Johnson Papers, so valuable in American
                    history. These fires emphasized the serious responsibility of those in charge of priceless
                    collections to take greater precautions, especially during work of construction. Every scholar who
                    has used the eight volumes has been dismayed when he came to a key document which was missing, or
                    represented only by the few words left on a scorched letter or report.
            During the past decades, however, large and important collateral collections, such as the Gage and
                    Loudoun Papers, have become available for the first time. In these were many originals or copies of
                    Johnson's correspondence which had been burned, or, in some cases, not kept by him. All
                    such documents, and scattered ones found in many other places, have been gathered with great skill
                    by Dr. Corey and Dr. Hamilton of the Division of Archives and History of 
                        New York
                     and are now being published in supplementary volumes to the original eight. Volume IX
                    covered the years 1738–1768, and the present one carries the work through 1763. Thus it
                    deals with the campaigns and diplomacy of the French and Indian War, Pontiac's
                    Conspiracy, the Treaty of 
                        Paris
                     of 1763, Indian trade, land grants, missionary activities, and the westward movement of
                    settlers. These were the years when Sir William Johnson was at the zenith of his remarkable career.
                    The documents consist preponderantly of the confidential correspondence, both to and from, that
                    passed between Johnson and the highest officials in the colonies, both imperial and colonial, and
                    also with their superiors in 
                        London
                    . Journals of many conferences with the Indians are included.
            Numerous footnotes and excellently chosen maps, plans, and portraits aid the reader. An index,
                    however, is missing. The printer supported the editors in excellent page work, but  failed woefully in the binding. The binding of the
                    reviewer's copy is already falling off.
            All scholars whose work deals with the decades preceding the American Revolution—decades
                    so decisive in American, British, and world history—will be debtors to Dr. Corey and his
                    staff, and will look forward to the completion of this monumental series, so superbly compiled and
                    edited. This series is a good example of a major phase of work in which every first class, state
                    historical organization engages.
            
                    
                  
                            Ohio
                         University
                
            A. T. Volwiler
         
         
            
               Kincaid: A Prehistoric 
                            Illinois
                         Metropolis. By Fay-Cooper Cole and others. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1951, pp. vii, 376. Bibliography, index, maps, text figures and plates. $7.50.)
            This volume contains a detailed account of seven seasons work by the Department of Anthropology,
                    University of 
                        Chicago
                    , at the Kincaid Site in Pope and Massac counties, 
                        Illinois
                    . During those seven seasons several sections of the village area were excavated, six
                    mounds were dug in entirety or in part and a search was carried on for the stockade which should be
                    present. This work was done in the main by students of the University but during two seasons,
                    1939–40 and 1941–42, labor was furnished by the Work Projects Administration.
                    Several advanced students acted in a supervisory capacity during the total time involved and thus
                    gained invaluable experience. The author of this volume was the only person continually associated
                    with the undertaking. He, therefore, is the one person qualified to bring together the vast amount
                    of data resulting from such a large undertaking. Four students contributed appendices in the form of
                    special papers ancillary to the body of the report. In addition to these four there are four others
                    credited upon the title page by reason of their special efforts and contributions in one respect or
                    another.
            Kincaid is a large Middle 
                        Mississippi
                     Site located along the north bank of Avery Lake which is a part of a former 
                        Ohio
                     River channel. The site is composed of nineteen mounds and an extensive habitation
                    area. If we may assume that the village was coextensive with the mounds then the length was about
                    three thousand seven hundred feet with a width, north and south, of something over one thousand
                    feet. In size it equates with other sites of the same time period and cultural affinity. The site is
                    strategically located between the mouth  of the 
                        Cumberland
                     River, upstream, and the 
                        Tennessee
                    , downstream. Also, it is within thirty miles of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , a river without peer in arterial significance.
            Cole wisely leads the reader into the detailed account of excavations through the medium of a general
                    statement relative to the chronological position of the Kincaid manifestation. It is but a phase of
                    the entire prehistory of the area which goes back a respectable number of years to an initial
                    occupation by a hunting-food-gathering folk who were completely nomadic. Intermediate to the two
                    extremes—migratory vs. sedentary—are expressions of culture not yet too well
                    known in this area. Cole, therefore, is being unduly modest in stating that the chapter is meant for
                    the layman and non-specialist. It is equally of value to the specialist and this is especially true
                    in view of the fact that these poorly known manifestations are described in detail in subsequent
                    chapters.
            I object to the use of the word "contact" in connection with Kincaid. As Cole uses
                    it the word is, in a sense, perfectly proper. He is thinking of the locale as being favorable for
                    contacts to have taken place between the inhabitants of Kincaid and related or unrelated peoples
                    moving through the area by means of the 
                        Ohio
                    , 
                        Wabash
                    , 
                        Cumberland
                    , or 
                        Tennessee
                     rivers. However, archaeolcgically, the word contact has come to mean extreme lateness
                    and is usually reserved for aboriginal sites which were being lived upon at the time of initial
                    European visitation or colonization. In this sense Kincaid is definitely not a
                    "contact" site.
            Chapter two is a detailed account of the excavations made during the seven season period. In the
                    village area proper, the approach to investigation was through the medium of methodically located
                    test pits. Several of these were expanded beyond the limits of the original test and "two
                    became major excavations." Floor plans are included as text figures for two of these
                    areas—presumably the ones referred to as "major." These plans point up
                    two facts: (a) the complexity of Middle 
                        Mississippi
                     habitation) areas, and, (b) the futility of attempting to reconstruct so highly a
                    complex pattern of life through the medium of limited excavation. A person who has not excavated
                    such a village cannot conceive of the veritable maze of post holes, house wall trenches, pits,
                    fireplaces, graves, lenses of debris, and lenses of sterile soil the excavator has to find his way
                    through in order to develop the story of intense activity over a long period of time by an extremely
                    active folk. For this reason Cole found it expedient to condense tremendously  the details of exploration and for the same reason I must do likewise.
                    To one specifically interested in the details of house type, village plan, orientation of dwellings,
                    etc., the published data is disappointing. The day books and notes of the excavators are without
                    doubt available for detailed study but someone should digest them if they have not already been so
                    treated.
            Another aspect of the exploration was disappointing both to the student of comparable sites and to
                    the author and his co-workers. Sites such as Kincaid usually have one or more stockade lines as an
                    integral feature. In this respect Kincaid was probably no exception but the evidence presented is
                    not conclusive.
            Five of the six mounds were of the truncate pyramid type generally thought to have served as
                    foundations for buildings of importance to the villagers. The method of investigation was by
                    trenching and occasional expansion of trenches to include major portions of interval structures as
                    they were encountered. The floor plans resulting from this digging method leave much to be desired
                    but due to the sheer mass of earth involved in total exploration there seems to have been no
                    alternative. Excavation of these mounds which, as usual were erected by stages, provided artifacts
                    which could be accurately relegated to time categories. Some change was noted in architectural
                    details which, in the main, did not differ drastically from the dwellings in the village area.
                    Floors, or "stages" 6, 3 and 2 in Mound -4 produced charcoal specimens which were
                    dated by Bell and in this respect the mound was monumental so far as 
                        Ohio
                     Valley archaeology is concerned.
            The sixth mound was apparently erected exclusively for burial purposes. It was explored during four
                    field seasons and the remains of one hundred fifty-five individuals were located. Regrettably all
                    were in such a poor state of preservation that physical studies could not be made.
            The burial mound was of considerable interest and importance for a number of reasons. It was the only
                    concentration of burials found in the Kincaid explorations. The mound was erected upon an older
                    village level—Lewis Component—which, in turn, was superimposed upon material
                    representing the earliest of the pottery making peoples of this area—Baumer Component.
                    The mound was also of interest in that change took place in burial practice within the body of the
                    mound. The lower and oldest burials were in bark and log "tombs" while the upper
                    and most recent burials were in stone lined gravea.
            
            Chapter three is devoted to a brief description of Kincaid materials broken down into categories. A
                    discussion of the sources of lithic materials is of value and is based upon a study by Bell. I
                    concur completely with the thesis that raw materials and their sources are as important as the
                    finished product in the interpretation of prehistory. Trade objects, especially pottery, are
                    discussed and these point to contacts with peoples removed a considerable distance from southern 
                        Illinois
                    . Time periods are also thus indicated which in the main agree with the periods
                    established through other media.
            Interposed between the detailed description of the Kincaid explorations and the Summary and
                    Conclusions, are three chapters which cover the cultural assemblages representing the time period
                    between Kincaid and the pre-ceramic nomadic food gatherers of the earliest period. These are
                    valuable additions to our growing literature on 
                        Ohio
                     Valley prehistory.
            The report on Kincaid by Cole ends with a summary in which the site. is placed in its proper position
                    culturally and chronologically. Herein it is also related to comparable components elsewhere in the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley. A detailed comparison of Kincaid with these other sites would have been welcome
                    but in view of the mass of material which would thus be derived it is understandable why it is
                    omitted. Also regrettable is the fact that correlations between Kincaid as a preliterate expression
                    of culture with linguistic groups of the southeast as expressed in ethnography, or ethnohistory, is
                    lacking.
            The supporting papers in the form of appendices start with one by Robert E. Bell and although all are
                    of importance, his is by far the most valuable. This paper is the best account of the method and
                    procedure followed by the dendrochronologist in the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley which has come to my attention. An accurate master chart for the eastern red
                    cedar, Juniperus virginiana, now exists for the years from 1450 to 1942. Although
                    such a chart is too recent for much that concerns the archaeologist of the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley, it is still of vital importance. Also, the present flare for dates derived
                    through the medium of radio-active carbon, should not obscure the importance of dendrochronology.
                    Results obtained from the former method are in some instances open to question and the C-14 dates
                    given to us for Angel Site are too far out of line to repeat in print. Eventually the C-14 dates for
                    recent sites may be forthcoming but even if they are the tree ring method will be more accurate and
                    will not be obsolescent.
            Bell was able to state with finality that Kincaid was occupied from some time prior to 1523 until
                    some time after  1613. It is interesting, and gratifying, to
                    note that these actual dates coincide perfectly with "guess dates" previously
                    given for the complex.
            Kenneth G. Orr contributes an appendix covering cultural change within Kincaid. This is based upon
                    the statistical treatment of artifacts, mainly pottery, taken from controlled levels from various
                    portions of the site. He refers to the pottery samples as being taken from "four
                    domiciliary mounds—Mx4, Mxv1A-35, Mxv1A-41, and
                        MxV1B" yet, with the exception of the first mentioned, all are
                    elsewhere described as "knolls." These would seem to have been spots in the
                    village which had grown from use as dwelling sites or were, in fact, natural elevations which had
                    been lived upon intensively. In either event the end result apparently was not affected for the
                    actual dates derived by Bell verified the statistical conclusions of Orr. The wonder of it is that
                    Orr was able to establish a chronology based upon material taken from intensively occupied sections
                    of the village. And here, may I say again, that a person who has not excavated such a site has no
                    conception of the complexity involved. The formula used for determining the standard of error of one
                    proportion is incorrectly stated on p. 303. This, no doubt, is a typographical error.
            Appendix III, by John W. Bennett, is the Kincaid Designative Trait List. The traits are broken down
                    into "Activity" categories each of which is sub-divided into "Complex,
                    Class and Items." The idea of so dividing the cultural assemblage of a site such as Kincaid
                    is a good one. It leads to the question as to whether or not an archaeological report could be
                    written in terms of a prehistoric ethnology.
            An example of what could be done with much of the material derived from an archaeological excavation
                    is given by Charles G. Wilder in Appendix IV in a study of Kincaid Textiles. The sherds used could
                    have been included only as ceramic traits of the textile marked variety. Wilder, however, has put
                    life into them by demonstrating the weaving techniques involved and how these techniques changed
                    with the passage of time.
            It has been tempting to insert, upon occasion, statements relative to Kincaid as compared to Angel
                    Site. The two are, in the main, identical. There are, however, differences which may reflect
                    variation in time or the relative geographical position of the two sites. There are instances where
                    matters of interpretation of evidence might have been discussed. But this seems not the place for
                    such comments. It is quite obvious that the two sites were built and lived upon by members of the
                         same ethnic and linguistic group and that they were
                    coexistent. If we think of such sites in terms of "City-states" then it is
                    possible, indeed probable, that the spheres of influence came together on the peripheries to the
                    east of Kincaid and west of Angel.
            The task so ably completed by Cole was an unenviable one. To write a report upon work performed by
                    one's self is chore enough but to take the notebooks of others and integrate them into a
                    concise and complete account of such a large undertaking is quite another matter. It is a tribute to
                    Cole, that not only did he carry the work to its logical conclusion in the form of this publication
                    but also that he was able to do it. The integration which is so obvious in the report is the result
                    of vision and planning and organization, all of which can be ascribed to Cole since he is the only
                    individual who had a continuous part in the project.
            
                    Indiana Historical Society
                
            Glenn A. Black
         
         
            
               The Tudor Chamber Administration, 1485–1547. By W. C. Richardson. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1952, pp. xiii, 541. Index, appendix, bibliographical note, and
                    illustrations. $6.50.)
            Mr. Richardson has undertaken an ambitious task and the result is highly creditable for its careful
                    research and 'the insight it gives into a significant phase of Tudor financial
                    administration. While there exist numerous studies on Tudor finance, much remains obscure, and Mr.
                    Richardson has endeavored to do important groundwork on the problem of chamber administration,
                    without which, he states, "no adequate history of the four great revenue courts of the
                    period could be written."
            After giving a survey of the obsolescence, inadequacy, and corruption of the system of exchequer
                    control under Edward IV and Richard III, the author shows how Henry VII bypassed the unwieldy and
                    often inefficient exchequer by setting up and developing the chamber administration, whereby he
                    secured financial independence. This institution established a personal treasury, which became
                    greatly expanded under Henry VIII. After 1487, the practice of directing special types of revenue
                    through chamber channels developed rapidly, and soon standard revenues, formerly paid to the
                    exchequer, were diverted into the chamber. The minute details of this process cannot be mentioned in
                    a review, but they will prove  of great value to a student of
                    this period. Under Henry VIII the chamber became highly departmentalized and proved itself, in
                    contrast to the exchequer, easily adaptable to change. There arose a division, of audit, an office
                    of wards, an office of liveries, a court of augmentations, a court of first fruits and tenths. Under
                    Henry VIII the chamber received parliamentary sanction. In 1513, chamber payments soared to nearly
                    700,000, while the exchequer expended less than 60,000. Under Mary the court of augmentations, which
                    leased land, sold property, all largely derived from the dissolution of the monasteries, was
                    dissolved and united with the exchequer, and the whole chamber system rapidly disintegrated. It had,
                    however, played a significant part in the development of the strong Tudor monarchy.
            Mr. Richardson deserves credit for his careful research and one is hesitant to find fault with such
                    assiduous accomplishment, but there certainly is overmuch repetition, which could have been avoided
                    in large measure by a more compact arrangement of the material.
            The 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press is to be complimented on the fine appearance of the volume.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            John C. Andressohn
         
         
            
               The First Military Escort on the Santa Fe Trail, 1829: From the Journal and Reports
                        of Major Bennet Riley and Lieutenant Philip St. George Cooke. By Otis E Young (Glendale, 
                        California
                    : The Arthur H. Clark Company, 1962, pp. 222. Maps, illustrations, documents,
                    bibliography, and index. $7.50.)
            Historians have for many years written about the first military escort to accompany the traders along
                    the Santa Fe Trail in the summer of 1829. Brief accounts have been included in most textbooks on
                    western America. Nevertheless, no adequate investigation of the event, in its historical setting,
                    and using the available manuscript sources of information had been made prior to Mr.
                    Young's study.
            In 1828 Indians killed several traders along the trail, forced others to flee the trace with
                    consequent suffering, and stole cargo worth an estimated thirty to forty thousand dollars. By ways
                    of introduction, the author summarizes these developments, then analyzes the official and public
                    reaction to events which culminated in the assignment of an escort of four companies of the 6th
                    Infantry under Major Bennet Riley for  the traders the following
                    season. Starting at Fort 
                        Leavenworth
                    , the combined party moved westward to Chouteau's Island in the 
                        Arkansas
                    , the international boundary. Once across the river the traders, alone for the first
                    time, were attacked by Indians and Major Riley's command, without hesitation, crossed
                    into Mexican territory to render aid. After escorting the merchants beyond the point of danger, the
                    soldiers awaited the caravan's return to the 
                        Arkansas
                     and then accompanied it back to Fort 
                        Leavenworth
                    . The day-by-day account of this episode is a story of heroism and cowardice. Valuable
                    sidelights on the southwestern fur trade and the military problems on the Indian frontier are
                    likewise provided. Young suggests that this expedition proved oxen were superior to horses and mules
                    as draft animals for the caravans to Santa Fe, and 'that the establishment of a cavalry
                    was essential to the policing of the Plains. The Army gained experience of exceptional value in
                    future operations against the Southwest Indians and for the campaigns of the Mexican War.
            The author has not relied exclusively upon the printed sources of information such as Josiah
                    Gregg's Commerce of the Prairies, Philip St. George Cooke's
                        Scenes and Adventures in the Army, William Waldo's Recollections, William Y. Hitt's Narrative, and other
                    well-known commentaries on the Santa Fe Trail. His book is a contribution to historical literature
                    chiefly because of the extensive use of manuscripts. From The National Archives he has obtained the
                    Report and Journal of Bennet Riley and other pertinent documents. As a result, Young has found
                    conclusive evidence to answer several controversial questions that have plagued historians. Perhaps
                    foremost is the fact that Philip St. George Cooke was the author of both Riley's Journal
                    and Report. Newspaper accounts enliven the story and the printed documents in the Congressional
                    series provide additional authenticity.
            Some matters of style and mechanics may be questioned. Although the account in the 
                        
                            Missouri
                         Intelligencer of October 24, 1928, about the attacks on the Santa Fe traders
                    of that year is both revealing and picturesque, the author is scarcely justified in quoting it twice
                    (p. 25 and p. 34). Some readers may find annoying the interruption of the narrative by the
                    interjection of discussions on sources of information and the evaluation of previous
                    scholars' interpretations and misinformation. In this reviewer's opinion, the
                    discourse on the authorship of the Riley Journal and Report (pp.
                    61–62), the questioning of Ralph Emerson Twitchell's scholarship (pp.
                    63–64), and other academic commentary would have been more at home in  footnotes. This is, of course, a matter of personal choice, and perhaps
                    overemphasized in the minds of those who have struggled over similar problems.
            The volume is a significant contribution to the history of the Greater Southwest. Young and his
                    mentor, Oscar O. Winther, are to be congratulated for good judgment in selecting a subject for a
                    master's thesis, and subsequent first book, that was circumscribed and therefore
                    manageable. A scholarly approach, a thorough investigation and, above all, the gift of an eminently
                    readable style of writing have been combind to produce an unusually good book.
            
                    University of 
                            California
                         Davis
                
            W. Turrentine Jackson
         
         
            
               Henry Hamilton and George Rogers Clark in the American Revolution with the
                        Unpublished Journal of Lieut. Gov. Henry Hamilton. Edited by John D. Barnhart. (
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Indiana: R. E. Banta, 1951, pp. 244. Frontispiece, bibliography, notes, and index.
                    $5.00.)
            "The most dramatic and significant event of the American Revolution in the West was the
                    capture of Lieutenant-Governor Henry Hamilton of 
                        Detroit
                     by tough young George Rogers Clark at 
                        Vincennes
                     on February 24th, 1779." With this introductory statement, the editor began
                    his account by sketching the career of Henry Hamilton, a descendant of illustrious ancestors, who
                    entered the army and served under Wolfe during the French and Indian War. As lieutenant governor at 
                        Detroit
                     from April, 1775, until 1779, Hamilton directed the Indian warfare on the western
                    frontiers, the expedition against George Rogers Clark, and the regulation of the fur trade. He was a
                    captive of 
                        Virginia
                     from 1779 to 1781, but on June 21, 1781, three months after his release he reached 
                        England
                    . In 1782 he became lieutenant governor of Quebec, and two years later governor. He was
                    governor of Bermuda from 1787 to 1794 or 1795. A year or more before his death in 1797, he was
                    governor of 
                        Dominica
                    .
            Because George Rogers Clark called Hamilton the "Hair-Buyer General," many American
                    writers have made use of this phrase. The editor questions whether Clark was justified in applying
                    this term to Hamilton.
            When Hamilton learned that Clark had captured Kaskaakia and other posts in the 
                        Illinois
                     country, he immediately made plans for an expedition against Clark. Accounts on this
                         expedition have repeatedly asserted that Hamilton left 
                        Detroit
                     for 
                        Vincennes
                     without orders. The editor, however, quotes from several letters by Haldimand in which
                    the latter gave his approval to take such steps as were necessary. An excellent description is given
                    of the journey from 
                        Detroit
                     up, the Maumee and down the 
                        Wabash
                     which required two months.
            As ruler of 
                  Vincennes, Hamilton
                repaired and strengthened Fort Sackville. His attitude
                    towards the people indicates a lack of knowledge and experience. Since they were in the
                    hunter-farmer stage of civilization and some distance from the markets of the world, their
                    commercial activity was slight.
            From time to time parties were sent out to 
                        Kaskaskia
                     to ascertain the strength of the Americans. While they were on one of these scouting
                    trips, an advanced group of Indians nearly captured Clark and a few of his men. Hamilton was fairly
                    successful in dealing with the Indians between 
                        Detroit
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    , but he failed to win the tribesmen of the lower 
                        Wabash
                    . The southern Indians also failed to support him. Late in January of 1779 many of the
                    chiefs and warriors who had accompanied Hamilton up the Maumee and down the 
                        Wabash
                     returned to their families in time for the spring planting. The absence of this group,
                    the change in loyalty of the French inhabitants and Indians, and the valuable information about
                    conditions in 
                        Vincennes
                    , which Francis Vigo furnished Clark, set the stage for Hamilton 's capture.
            Clark's heroic march to 
                        Vincennes
                     began the first part of February, 1779. When he attacked 
                  Vincennes, Hamilton
                had only 79 officers and men and only about 33 could be depended
                    upon. A detailed account of Clark's capture of 
                        Vincennes
                     is given, Hamilton 's surrender, the hardships, and humiliation of the
                    journey to 
                        Virginia
                    , and his imprisonment at Williams-burg are minutely described.
            In the last chapter "Changes in Evaluation: Hamilton and Clark," the
                    editor's account detracts slightly from the credit due George Rogers Clark, but presents
                    Henry Hamilton in a more favorable light than has been the case heretofore.
            The publication of "The Journal of Henry Hamilton, 1778–1779," the
                    manuscript of which is in the Houghton Library, 
                        Harvard
                     University, is a worthy contribution to the knowledge of a colorful phase of the
                    American Revolution.
            Banta has produced a volume which is unusual in design and handsomely bound.
         
         
         
            
               The Journal of Max Ehrmann. Edited by Bertha K. Ehrmann. (
                        Boston
                    : Bruce Humphries, Inc., 1952, pp. 344. $3.75.)
            Max Ehrmann was born in 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1872 and died in that city in 1945. He was graduated from DePauw University in 1894,
                    and then spent two years in graduate study at 
                        Harvard
                     University in the department of philosophy. He later studied law and served for a term
                    as Prosecuting Attorney in 
                        Vigo County
                    , of which 
                        Terre Haute
                     is the county seat. He then took up work with a factory, remaining at his job for about
                    ten years. It was while he was daily putting in time at the factory office that he devoted his
                    evenings to writing poetry. The remainder of his life he spent in reading, writing, traveling, and
                    thinking—leading a somewhat leisurely existence for thirty or more years.
            The first entry in the Journal is dated May 12, 1917. The last entry was written on
                    December 27, 1936. Comparatively few of the entries contain items such as one finds in diaries, but
                    autobiographical matter appears from time to time. No attempt was made to write something each day.
                    There were months in which' only one entry was made. A total of thirty-five scattered
                    months passed during the period from May 12, 1927 and the end of the year 1936, within which months
                    no entries whatever were made. Occasionally the editor of the Journal has omitted
                    passages, but every such omission was eliminated from the entry of a single day. No reason is
                    furnished for the editor's omissions, but it seems certain that nothing was deleted to
                    save the author from censure by persons antagonistic to his beliefs or opinions. Had this been the
                    reason for the omissions, a greater number would have been made, since the writer of the Journal expressed himself freely in regard to religious, social, political and
                    other problems.
            The Journal reveals that Max Ehrmann read widely in the realms of poetry,
                    philosophy, psychology, science, and history. He was much interested in ancient history and in
                    contributions of ancient teachers and writers. He showed no particular interest in current fiction.
                    His own poems, plays and other writings were not designed to win popular applause. Opposite the
                    title-page of the Journal, the editor has presented a partial list of the
                    published writings of Mr. Ehrmann and has added two titles of publications of her own.
            It seems a bit puzzling that the Ehrmann Journal was not continued or revived after
                    1936, since the author lived until 1946. In her foreword, Mrs. Ehrmann says: "In 1936
                    deeply  depressed by the oncoming war, Max Ehrmann closed his
                    journal." This may be a correct explanation, but it does not seem adequate. On February 2,
                    1923, the poet-philosopher resumed Writing after four months of inactivity. His explanation of the
                    interval reads: "Several months have passed since I gave up my Journal. I thought never to
                    write in it again, but I need it. I shall continue to write on the wanderings of my mind."
                    One wonders if he did not frequently feel the urge to return to the former method of satisfying his
                    spirit during the stirring years from 1936 to 1945.
            It is not easy to portray the nature of the volume under review. Perhaps a few samplings will help:
                    "What is happening in my inner world is also happening in the inner worlds of the race.
                    Civilized man is moving so fast that he does not how where he is. He is prompted to action by the
                    whisper of new doctrines. There is nowhere to cling, for old convictions oscillate in their grooves,
                    and new things are not yet a brace to hold us steady." (December 21, 1919)
            "Am I opposed to religion? No. Religion is the bread of the soul. The best Christianity of
                    today has abandoned the metaphysics of the Bible, but clings to the ethical teachings of
                    Jesus—love, brother-hood, and service—which are the hope of the
                    world." (June 16, 1922)
            "A Belief may have a thousand years of life behind it, and though we deny it with our
                    tongues, the thing still clings to us. In this farce of tradition many beliefs remain long after
                    every vestige of technical and common sense has been torn out of them." (December 12,
                    1924.)
            "Today I heard a beggar singing on the streets. He sang dreamy ballads in a rich voice. As
                    he had no license, a policeman arrested him. It is a common experience of idealists."
                    (December 19, 1926.)
            "I am moved to rage and pity when I see how extravagantly some of the daughters of the rich
                    live, and with what labor so many poor girls earn a little bitter pleasure." (February 24,
                    1927.)
            "No matter what you are, you will have enemies. Bear them with equanimity. Hate no man. If
                    you must hate, hate unjust institutions." (December 27, 1934.)
            "Like a team of horses running away, mankind seem to be going nowhere in particular at
                    tremendous speed." (September 24, 1930.)
            "The day [Easter] is now significant of a festival of spring, when persons cast off their
                    winter clothing and array themselves in new garments. It is now the festival of the  merchants. Thus fades away the metaphysics of Jesus but the ethics of
                    the Sermon on the Mount is destined to live on." (April 20, 1919.)
            "This morning I revisited the Criminal Court, where more than thirty years ago, I was the
                    prosecutor. Now another judge sits upon the bench. The bench itself is new. Other reporters, other
                    court officials, other policemen and detectives, other lawyers prosecuting and defending, other
                    endless daily processions of accused. All is changed. No, not all. The smell is the same."
                    (October 19, 1933.)
            My feeling is that any thoughtful reader will find The Journal of Max Ehrmann to be
                    very stimulating and valuable.
            
                    Selma, 
                            Alabama
                        
               
                
            William O. Lynch
         
         
            
               Sixty-One Years in the School Room. By Lawrence Hurst. (
                        Boston
                    : Meador Publishing Company, 1952, pp. 255. Illustrations. $2.50.)
            Professor Hurst's autobiography, which is dedicated to his wife, Mabel, and his mother,
                    Elizabeth (he has no children) falls into two major divisions. In the first, constituting about
                    two-thirds of the book, he reviews the highlights of his career as a student, rural school teacher,
                    high school teacher and administrator, and college instructor in the social sciences. Thirty-five
                    years were spent in the latter capacity, including seven at Stout Institute in 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and twenty-four at Ball State Teachers College.
            The second division consists of ten chapters describing extensive travels, largely by automobile, in
                    North America and Europe. With the exception of visits to the Scandinavian countries and Russia, the
                    material in general reflects the usual reactions of tourists who are covering a lot of territory in
                    a short time. The exact cost of having automobile bearings replaced in 
                        Georgia
                     in 1927 seems of no particular significance, to mention one trivial detail which is
                    included.
            Doubtless in an effort to avoid pedantry, the author attempts a kind of journalistic style,
                    particularly in the selection of chapter headings, such as "Aged in the
                    Wood-Shed," "Curlicuricular Activities," "Isaac [sic] Waltons," "Insouciance Abroad," and "Throwing
                    the Bull." Some readers will feel that in an effort to write in a popular vein, the author
                    goes in too much for earthy stories and allusions, of which the following is an example: 
                    
                        I got caught in the branches and tore the seat of my pants…. As I sat there, the
                            teen-agers, sitting on the ground, endured a long time photostatic exposure, As I viewed the
                            situation, everything was just a little behind in the twigs. (p. 83)
                    
            
            At times the vocabulary and sentence structure, an illustrated by the following excerpts, may invite
                    criticism from academicians and journalists alike:
            
                    "In our school we had a character which we nicknamed Buck." (p. 37)
                    "When I mid he had the right pig by the ear, he took me up to the Y.M.C.A. headquarters
                        at the main building." (P. 58)
                    "When a boy, fox hunters used to pass our house." (P. 80)
                    "One evening, as we were leaving the State Horn where we were working my pal and I
                        accidentally fell in with this little Miss." (p. 120)
                
            The author disclaims any intention of writing an educational history or a philosophical treatise.
                    Nevertheless, the chapters dealing with the rural schools of 
                        Clark County
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , his delightful sojourn at 
                        New Harmony
                    , and his reactions to collegiate instructors and school administrators constitute
                    outstanding features of the book, in the opinion of the reviewer.
            He rates his instructors at the Indiana State Normal School, as the best observed, on the whole, of
                    any college attended. He considers President William W. Parsons "intellectual, imperious
                    able and often petty" and a master in his field of history and philosophy of education. He
                    declares that Vice President Howard Sandison had a limited formal education "but his
                    erudition was so varied and deep that some of our college presidents of today would not know what he
                    was talking about." Hurst also speaks highly of his instructors in Latin, mathematics, and
                    history.
            As a graduate student he studied under a galaxy which included Clarence W. Alvord, Solon J. Buck,
                    Carl R. Fish, Evarts B. Greene, James W. Gamer, Samuel B. Harding, Amos Hershey, J. Franklin
                    Jameson, Dana C. Munro, Albert H. Lybyer, David Muzzey, Frederic L. Paxson, Elihu Root, W. S.
                    Robertson, Robert Schuyler, Ulysses G. Weatherley, and James A. Woodburn. Alvord influenced him the
                    most because of the objectivity, industry, and perseverance which "kept him in pursuit of a
                    problem till he found the answer." Paxson is considered  the best lecturer of the group. He praises Woodburn for his inspiring teaching and wholesome
                    liberalism. He also speaks highly of Garner, Jameson, Harding, and 
                        Greene
                    .
            The author had considerable experience in public school administration but chose college teaching for
                    a variety of considerations, one being his low opinion of administrators, whom he did not find to be
                    "either particularly honorable or honest" because of the necessity of being
                    politicians first and schoolmen second. On the college level he saw many men and women discharged:
                        
                        … The charges against them were petty and personal in nearly every case. My
                            observance has been that the best teachers are more likely to lose their positions than the
                            mediocre ones, though not as likely to lose them as the poorest teachers. (p. 46)
                    
            
            While Sixty-One Years in the School Room is not likely to win the acclaim of
                    Eggleston's The Hoosier Schoolmaster, it will be enjoyed by countless
                    teachers whose careers have had much in common with that of Lawrence Hurst. The casual reader will
                    profit vicariously by the accounts of the spelling bees, box suppers, square dances, fox hunts, and
                    other activities popular in the 
                        Wabash
                     Valley at the turn of the century, not to mention such northern 
                        Wisconsin
                     pastimes as birling, ice skating, fishing, and canoeing. Women readers doubtless will
                    approve the final paragraph in which the author affirms that if he could be married a hundred times,
                    he would marry Mabel every time.
            
                    Northern 
                            Michigan
                         College of Education
                
            Max P. Allen
         
         
            
               With Rod and Transit, The Engineering Career of Thomas S. McNair
                        (1824–1901). By James B. McNair. (Los Angela, 
                        California
                    : Published by the author, 818 South Ardmore Avenue, 1951, pp. xv, 267. Illustrations.
                    $7.50.)
            This collection of somewhat disconnected information concerning the genealogy, religious background,
                    "masonic career" and other seemingly more important aspects of the life of this
                    admirable early American engineer and mine manager is apparently a labor of love of one of his
                    descendanta. It appears to be a conscientious effort to record with plentiful documentation the
                    significant details of the career of one's highly esteemed forebear, particularly the
                    facts that add luster to the family name.
            
            Among the more notable achievements of Thomas S. McNair appears to be his idea for the development of
                    an inclined mine transit, made to his order, and his service as engineer in the surveying work
                    required for the 16,000 feet long Jeddo mine drainage tunnel which in 1894 reclaimed for use a large
                    mine that had been flooded by an overflowing stream in a great storm, the water entering the mine
                    shaft.
            Many mine surveys were made by Mr. McNair always with great accuracy. To underscore the importance of
                    such accuracy in mine surveying a dramatic story is vividly told of a mine disaster which resulted
                    from inaccurate surveying or inaccurate recording of a survey by another, not Mr.
                    McNair. In this catastrophe 13 men lost their lives by drowning after a blast which was set off too
                    close to an adjacent flooded abandoned mine. The inaccurate map had indicated the flooded mine shaft
                    to be 90 feet farther away than it was. The coroner's jury rendered a verdict setting
                    forth the facts just given, but named no one as the guilty party. Presumably the families of the
                    miners received no damages.
            Several pages are devoted to Mr. McNair's views on "Coal Strikes and Labor
                    Unions." One searches the pages in vain for evidence that the engineer might show sympathy
                    for the hazardous, difficult life and poor living standard of the coal miners. Although he appears
                    to understand them he ascribes conditions to "hard times." Even when "50
                    were shot by the Deputies—11 killed and 39 wounded. Several of the wounded died
                    afterwards"—his indignation is directed only against the "labor
                    agitators" and "parties who were making cat paws of these foreign born
                    people." He does add in his letter of 1897 from which these excerpts have been taken:
                    "I pity these poor people who suffered at Lattimer. The parties who should have suffered
                    have left them."
            This reviewer, however, who knows something of present day attitudes toward "labor
                    agitators" and coal miners does not feel inclined to judge harshly the not dissimilar views
                    of early engineers.
            Do not social views improve less rapidly than technology and corporate ethics also?
            The following is a quotation from Mr. McNair to M. A. M. Passmore written on behalf of the widow of a
                    brother free mason, "It has come to my knowledge that the M—Life Insurance
                    Company of which you hold the agency, and I also a policy, are' disposed to contest the
                    payment of a policy due to the widow of the late Mark McAllister…. It does not seem to be
                    exactly the right thing for a company to continue to  receive
                    the premium on a policy year after year without any demurer or exception on their part and when the
                    event occurs for which it was intended to provide, at one look about for some excuse to avoid the
                    payment of the policy to the widow. …"
            Following the bringing of suit and postponement of the trial "it was understood that the
                    M—Life Assurance Company was willing to settle out of court by paying the widow $500 and
                    paying for the costs of the trial"—despite the fact that more than $3500 had
                    been paid in premiums. "Mr. McNair dropped his life insurance policy No. 26648A"
                    with that company. But, the company grew and prospered, nevertheless.
            Thus it appears that the social conscience of this engineer could be aroused against an unjust
                        corporation—not his employer—on behalf of a fellow
                    mason's widow if not for the "foreign-born miners"
                    under his employ.
            There is a fascination in delving into quaint repositories of ancient anecdote and naive verbiage.
                    This is an excerpt from a letter to McNair's son Tom: "No objection to your
                    going to any other orthodox church (than the Presbyterian) but there can be no good reason for going
                    back on the old faith. It's people are generally as intelligent and influential as any
                    other." This book, unlike Presbyterians, will not be influential, but is as intelligent as
                    many another. As an engineer—and for reasons somewhat unorthodox—I enjoyed it.
            
                    Purdue University
                
            W. E. Howland
         
         
         
            Genealogy The 
                        Georgetown
                     Presbyterian Church
            
                    Nova May Mertens*
               
                
            A committee of the Presbytery of 
                        Indianapolis
                     consisting of D. V. Smock and B. F. Woods, mipisters, and David Demaree, elder,
                    organized the 
                        Georgetown
                     Presbyterian Church on October 25, 1845. George Bergen, Margaret Eoff, Elizabeth
                    McIlhenny, Robert McIlhenny, William Moreland, John Prosser, and Sarah Prosser were enrolled as
                    members. The ruling elders chosen at that time were George Bergen, Robert McIlhenny, and John
                    Prosser.
            Before a house of worship was constructed, these Brown County citizens held services in their homes.
                    Just when the first church was built is not known, but the land for this frame structure was a gift
                    from the Waltman family, and the lumber was sawed at the Thomas Waltman Lumber Mill, east of 
                        Georgetown
                    . Many of the logs from this building were used when the second church was built, which
                    is still standing.
            The minutes of the Indiana Synod of the Presbyterian church indicate that a minister served this
                    congregation until 1920 when Frank C. Hood from 
                        Franklin
                     was listed as the pastor-at-large. Three years later ministers no longer shepherded
                    this flock, and on September 20, 1937, the 
                        Georgetown
                     Presbyterian Church met its demise.1 The Methodists endeavored to
                    reorganize a church, but their venture proved unsuccessful. The building, however, was kept in
                    repair by descendants of old Presbyterian members, mostly the Waltman family. Funerals and reunions
                    made use of this house of worship until a few years ago when it was sold to the Mennonites.
            Three books contain the transactions of the 
                        Georgetown
                     Presbyterian Church. Book one, which has been lost, covered the period from October 25,
                    1845, to September 17, 1859; Book two, September 18, 1859, to May 15, 1897; and Book three, 
                  
                     * Mrs. Nova May Mertem is a resident of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1
                            Ninety-eighth Meeting of the Synod of Indiana of the Presbyterian Church in the
                                U.S.A., Held in the First Presbyterian Church of Gary, Indiana., October 2–4,
                                1923 (n.p., n.d.), 68; Minutes of the One Hundred Thirteenth Meeting
                                of the Synod of Indiana of the Presbyterian Church in the USA., Held in 
                                    Crawfordsville
                                , Indiana, June 6–9, 1938 (n.p., n.d.), 74.
               
                     May 16, 1897, to December 21, 1930. The "date of
                    admission" to the church of the membership which follows in many instances was given in the
                    original books.2
            
            
               Adama, A. W.
               Adama, Andrew
               Adams, Mrs. Andrew
               Adame, David B.
               Adama, Desdimony
               Adams, L. Kate
               Adama, Mrs. Lorena
               Ah, Mary L.
               Adama, William A.
               Alender, Mrs. L.
               Alender, Mary Nettie
               Alexander, Carry C.
               Alexander, Eh
               Alexander, George
               Alexander, Jane
               Alexander, Mary
               Alexander, Rebecca
               Alexander, S. P.
               Alexander, Stephen
               Allen, Lafayett
               Allen, Sarah
               Allender, Mrs. Elizabeth
               Allison, G. W.
               Allison, John C.
               Andereon, Josephine C.
               Arwine, Enoch L.
               Arwine, Mary J.
               Arwine, S. Adelaide
               Arwine, William
               Banta, G—li
               Banta, William
               Baughman, Lillian
               Baughman, Mary
               Baughman, Mrs. Mary A.
               Baughman, William
               Baughman, Willis
               Bay, Jam- H.
               Bay, Mrs. Nancy J.
               Bell, Matilda
               Bergen, Abraham
               Bergen, Alonzo N.
               Bergen, George
               Bergen, Margaret J.
               Bergen, Sarah A. E.
               Branstetter, Rebecca
               Brummit, Mrs. Grazilda
               Cain, Dean (Turner)
               Calvin, Collins M.
               Calvin, Mary
               Calvin, Sarah
               Calvin, Timothy D.
               Campbell, Eliza J.
               Campbell, Elizabeth
               Campbell, Harietta
               Campbell Jane Banta
               Campbell, John A.
               Campbell, Joshua
               Campbell, Margaret A.
               Campbell, Mary
               Campbell, Nancy
               Campbell, Nancy E.
               Campbell, Oma
               Campbell. Robert W.
               Campbell. Sarah N.
               Choran, Martha
               Clipper, Harley
               Clipper, Rosie
               Clupper, Gladys
               cochran, Thomas
               Coffey, Richard
               Coffland, Eliza
               Coffland, Ellen
               Coffland, Lorena
               Coffland, Ruth Ann
               Coffland, Sarah R.
               Coffland, Thoman
               Crab, Elizabeth
               Crab, William
               Crane, Mrs. Hannah
               Culley, Lorena M.
               Culley, Mary E.
               Dallas, Alexander
               Dallas, Catherine
               Davis, Ella M.
               Davis, Enoch
               Davis, Eva E.
               Davis, Frank
               Davis, George
               Davis, Mrs. G.
               Davie, Granville E.
               Davis, John
               Davis, Robert
               Davis, Mrs. [Robert]
               Davis, William
               Deist, Mrs. Louisa
               Deist, Mary J.
               Demaree, David
               Demaree, Elizabeth
               Demaree, S. W.
               Derringer, Verna
               Diest, John
               Doleberry, Sarah
               Douden, Harvy
               Douden, Nancy
               Dowden, Lizzie
               Dowden, Vernie
               Dowden. William
               Dowden, Mrs. William
               Duly, Gustie
               Eoff, Margaret
               Flint, Albert M.
               Gerherd, Elizabeth A.
               Gibson, Charles
               Gibson, Sarah E.
               Gordon, Williard
               Gorman, Joseph H.
               Gray, Andrew
               Gray, Sarah J.
               Gwinn, Rachel
               Haggart, Mary
               Hamblin, James T.
               Harden, John
            
            
               
                  2 Book two and three are in the Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            
               Helms, Nettie
               Henry, Sarah
               Hiatt, Ethel
               Hiatt, Norma
               Hiatt, W. E.
               Honeycut, Moses
               Howers, Mrs.
               Hulin, Ella
               Hulin, Lida M.
               Hulin, Nancy Jane
               Hulin, Wilburn
               Hunt, John
               Hunt, Mary
               Hurd, Ida
               Hurdle, James
               Hurdle, Minerva J.
               Hurdle, Sarah
               Hurdle, Tressia
               Hutchison, Ann E.
               Hutchison, Frances
               Hutchison, Harriet
               Hutchison, Janet
               Jorden, H. C.
               Kain, Evan
               Kaper, Mary B.
               Kasserman,
               Mrs. Margaret
               Keller, John J.
               Keller, Phoeba
               Keller, Wilson
               Kelley, Jane
               Kelley, William J.
               Kelly, Eliza Ann
               Kelly, Hannah
               Kennedy, Christianna
               Kennedy, James
               Kennedy, John
               Kennedy, Margaretta
               Kennedy, Moses
               Kennedy, Patience
               Kephart, John S.
               Lamer, Tamer
               Long, Jennie
               Long, Marie
               Long, Sam
               Long, Mrs. Sam
               McDonald, Edward M.
               McDonald, Mrs. F.
               McDonald, George
               McDonald, Mrs. Minerva
               McDonald, Opal
               McDonald, Sarah
               McGlashan, Martha A.
               McGlaahan, Thos. C.
               McIlhenny, Elizabeth
               McIlhenny, Robert
               McIlhenny, Mrs. Ruth
               McIlhenny, Samuel
               McIlhenny, Sarah G. (married Hiram Waltman)
               Mandeville, Mary
               Milbourn, Mrs. F.
               Milbourn, Frank
               Miller, Sam A.
               Mobley, Catherine
               Mobley, Lewis
               Mobley, Mary R.
               Mobley, William H.
               Monroe, Alex
               Monroe, Boyd
               Monroe, Mrs. Maggie
               Moore, Charles
               Moore, Mrs. Maggie
               Moreland, William
               Moser, Janie
               Moser, Jennia
               Moser, Mrs Lizzie
               Moser, Ona (Culver)
               Mosier, John
               Myers, Jane
               Neff, Mrs. Lizzie
               Neff, Oliver A.
               Neidlinger, Christopher
               Neidlinger, Mrs. Christopher
               Neidlinger, Master
               Neidlinger, Miss
               Obney, Alexander
               Obney, Ami
               Oliver, Andrew J.
               Oliver, James H.
               Oliver, Mrs. Jane
               Oliver, Maggie
               Oliver, Mary Sheffer
               Oliver, Mary
               Oliver, Mrs. Minnie
               Oliver, Nancy A.
               Oliver, William
               Palmer, Georgie
               Palmer, Henry
               Palmer, Mrs. Maggie
               Palmer, Rose
               Parmerlee, Amos
               Parmerlee, Ann Eliza
               Parmarlee, Mrs. Ella
               Parmarlee, Marcus H.
               Parmarlee, Rebecca
               Parmerlee, Sarah
               Parsley, Dan
               Parsley, Ed
               Parsley, Mrs. Ed.
               Parsley, Edith
               Parsley, Mrs. Ella
               Parsley, Mary
               Parsley, Millie
               Parsley, Roma
               Parsley, Solomon A.
               Patterson, J. W.
               Pattereon, Martha
               Patterson, Thomas H.
               Phillips, James
               Prosser, Abraham
               Prosser, Elizabeth
               Prosser, Anne E.
               Prosser, Ella
               Prosser, Isaac
               Prosser, James
               Prosser, James F.
               Prosser, James J.
               Prosser, John
               Prosser, Joseph
               Prosser, Margaret
               Prosser, Margaret J.
               Prosser, Mary J.
               Proeser, Mary M.
               Prosser, Robert N.
               Prosser, Sadie
               Proseer, Samantha A.
               Proseer, Sarah
               Prosser, Sarah A
               Prosser, Sarah E.
               presser, silas c.
               
               Quail, Mary Ann
               Quail, Thomas
               Ralston, Alice
               Ralston, Harrison
               Reeves, Annie
               Robins, Henry
               Robins, Mary
               Rund, Angus (August)
               Rund. Anna M.
               Rund. August
               Rund, Flora
               Rund, Lewis
               Rund, Mary A.
               Rund, Mrs. S. (Kephart)
               Rund, Mrs. Sarah
               Rund, Theresa
               Schrock, Mrs.
               Shafer, Arnold
               Shafer David
               Shafer, James
               Shafer, John
               Shafer, Mahlan
               Shafer, Margaret
               Shafer, Mrs. Martha
               Shafer, Mary
               Shaffer, Mrs. C.
               Shaffer, David
               Shaffer, Ida
               Shelman, John
               Smith, Della
               Smith, Elizabeth
               Smith, George
               Smith, Leander
               Smith, Nancy
               Smith, Prairie
               Snider, Bernice
               Snider, Emma
               Spencer, Allexander C.
               Staples, Zachary T.
               Stewart, Eliza
               Stewart, Heyemiah
               Stewart, William E.
               Stinson, Elisabeth
               Stinson, John
               Stinson, Moses
               Stuart, Emma
               Stump, Abigail
               Stump, Abraham
               Swift, Alonzo
               Thomas, Mrs. Spicy
               Thomas, William
               Tracy, India
               Trayster, Robbert
               Tumbeson, Manville
               Turner, Chip
               Turner, E. D.
               Turner, Janie (Fleener)
               Turner, John
               Turner, Lena (Kain)
               Turner, Mrs. Letha
               Turner, Lewis
               Turner, Mrs. Martha B.
               Turner, Nancy
               Turner, Rebekah
               Tuttle, Pamelia
               Vanausdall, Rebecca
               Vanausdall, Silas
               Wagner, Mrs. Nellie
               Walker, Dud
               Walker, Mrs. Dud
               Walker, Dydley
               Walker, Elizabeth
               Walker, Frank
               Walker, Mrs. Mary
               Walker, 
                            Randolph
                        
               
               Wallace, Margaret Jane
               Wallis, Joseph
               Wallis, Julia A. (Gearhard)
               Waltman, Bessie
               Waltman, Mrs. Catherine
               Waltman, Edward C.
               Waltman, Ella
               Waltman, Ambrose
               Waltman, Mrs. Ambrose
               Waltman, Emma J.
               Waltman, H. McIntire (McIntyre)
               Waltman, Hiram D.
               Waltman, Hiram
               Waltman, Mrs. Hiram
               Waltman, Irene
               Waltman, Julia Ann
               Waltman, Margaret
               Waltman, Margaret (Donovan)
               Waltman, Mary
               Waltman, Mellie
               Waltman, Michel
               Waltman, Minnie
               Waltman, Minnie A.
               Waltman, R. J.
               Waltman, R. (Zody)
               Waltman, Sarah J.
               Waltman, Saraphine
               Waltman, Mrs. Tamie
               Waltman, Thomas
               Waltman, Walter V.
               Ward, Clementine
               Ward, Hannah Jettie
               Ward, James G.
               Ward, Rufus
               Ward, Mrs. Sarepta
               Waugh, Elam H.
               Waugh, Samuel N.
               Waugh, William A.
               Weddle, Maud (Milbourn)
               Wright, Carny C.
               Wright, Mary
               Wright, Robert
               Wright, William
               Yoder, Catherind
               Yoder, James
               Zody, Mre. Emma
               Zody, Bertha
               Zody, Nellie
               Zook, John
            
         
         
         
            Hill Men of Indiana
            Franklin D. Hill Go. A Regt. of Ind. Inf. 1862
            Franklin J. Hill m. Elizabeth Pine 1876 Adams Co. Ind.
            Frederick N. Hill m. Saphronia Thurston 1895 Bartholomew Go. Ind.
            Capt. George Hill b. N.Y. m. Sarah Cool, to Ind. about 1838
            George Hill m. Versula McBride 1846 Adams Co. Ind.
            George Hill m. Mary J. Thompson 1855 Allen Co., Ind.
            George Hill b. Ind. 1838 son of Conrad
            George Hill b. Ind. 1847 to 
                        Iowa
                     1855, to Ill. 1861, Kan. 1872
            George Hill m. Mary Scofield 1894 
                        Bartholomew
                     Go. Ind.
            George Hill m. Clara or Emma Mauller 1903 Adams Go. Ind.
            George A. Hill m. Mary Jenkins 1860 
                        Randolph
                     Co. Ind.
            George E. Hill m. Abra Hayes 1832. Died 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     1835
            George E. Hill of Milan Ind. Capt. 
                        Ripley
                     Co. Legion 1862
            George F. Hill m. Jane Hultz 1844 Allen Co. Ind.
            George F. Hill m. Amanda Davis 18617 
                        Randolph
                     Co. Ind.
            George W. Hill m. Jenetta White 1846 
                        Randolph
                     Go. Ind.
            George W. Hill m. Mrs. Lieurany (Barton) Ross, lived 
                        Warrick
                     Co. Ind.
            George W. Hill of 
                        Orange
                     Go. Ind. Pvt. Co. B. 24 Regt. Ind. Inf. 1861
            Capt. George W. Hill of 
                        Jasper
                     Ind. 58th Regt. Ind. Vol. 1861–1865
            George W. Hill of 
                        Putnam
                     Go. Ind. Pvt. Go. A 78th Regt. Ind. Inf. 1862
            George W. Hill of 
                        Indianapolis
                     Go. A 5th Cavalry Regt. Ind. 1864
            George W. Hill of Marshall Go. Ind. Pvt. Co. E. 12th Regt. Cavalry 1865
            George W. Hill m. Jane Parker 1871 
                        Randolph
                     Co. Ind.
            Records and correspondence on above desired by
            Edwin P. Hill 5421 
                        Broadway
                    
               
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     20, Indiana
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
