
     ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 2, Issue 2, pages 57-106. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:2+issue:2+year:1906&browseMode=source
    
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
        
        
            
            
                GEORGE W. JULIAN: SOME IMPRESSIONS.
                
                    BY HIS DAUGHTER, MRS. GRACE JULIAN CLARKE.
                
                
                    "The dear and good paternal image."
                    —DANTE.
                
                OF my father's political career I could have no knowledge at first hand, because
                    it was mainly finished before I was old enough to remember. I knew him only as
                    an old man and a semi-invalid; but these two facts, coupled with the sudden
                    death of my mother in 1884, brought me into very close and intimate relations
                    with him. And it is my conviction that his public services, valuable and
                    disinterested as they were, were yet not so remarkable as was the man himself,
                    which prompts me to give to his friends this little sketch of my father as he
                    appeared to me, supplemented by a few facts gathered from him and from others.
                Life was truly a boon to him, increasing in value with the years. It was,
                    moreover, a momentous reality, an experience not to be idly or carelessly passed
                    through, but a privilege into which should be crowded as much of useful
                    achievement as possible. It was not mere existence that he loved. Activity was
                    his delight, and he fretted under enforced idleness. He dreaded unspeakably the
                    loss of his faculties, and during the last few years the words of John Quincy
                    Adams about his "shaking hand, darkening eye and drowsy brain" seemed to possess
                    new meaning for him. Ever on the alert for signs of failing mental power, he was
                    a severe task-master to himself, for he believed that he could at least hinder
                    the ravages of time by keeping his mind employed. It is probable that the final
                    catastrophe was precipitated by the continuous strain, during excessively warm
                    weather, occasioned in the preparation of a book review for The
                        Dial. This meant double work for the brain grown sluggish with age and
                    supported by an increasingly feeble body.
                Although stinted in sleep for more than thirty years, and  bowed down by growing infirmities, my father
                    manifested a certain pugnacity in facing distressing conditions that not only
                    made them bearable, but lent a sort of color to life. It was not a part of his
                    philosophy to ignore evil and unfortunate circumstances, as it has become
                    fashionable nowadays to do, but rather to face them in all their might and
                    ugliness, and then set to work to overcome them. Among the lines that he
                    repeated oftenest were these from Browning's Easter Day:
                
                 "And so I live, you see, Go through the world, try, prove,
                    reject, Prefer, still striving to effect My warfare; happy that I can Be crossed
                    and thwarted as a man, Not left in God's contempt apart, With ghastly smooth
                    life, dead at heart," 
                When attacked by the grippe, which occurred quite regularly
                    during the last few years, he would keep his room at first with rather a bad
                    grace, for he loved to be down among his books, where he could see people; but
                    presently, having become adjusted to the situation, he would set himself to
                    pointing out its pleasant features—the east and south windows, the open fire,
                    the pictures on the walls,—pictures of the capitol and of the Thirty-first
                    Congress, of Horace Greeley, Thaddeus Stevens and others. Sunshine was a
                    perpetual delight to him, and the fleeting glory of the dawn was worth a great
                    effort to behold. Once, when he was recovering from pneumonia, I was shocked and
                    a bit provoked, on going into his room very early in the morning, to find him
                    standing at the window gazing out, although it was quite cold and he was not
                    dressed; but he won forgiveness by hurrying back to bed, saying gaily: "I had to get up to see ‘jocund day standing tiptoe upon the
                    misty mountain tops’!" The branches of the maples as they swayed to and fro
                    outside his window spoke a language very sweet and quieting, and the birds were
                    a constant source of pleasure to him. The sight of a storm seemed to fascinate
                    him, and he would go from one room to another to get new views of it, his face
                    wearing a look of mingled awe and delight. The twilight hour was a precious
                    time; he liked then to have a loved one beside him, by the fire in winter and
                    under the trees in summer, and to sit in 
                    silent meditation, or repeating poetry, or talking of the day's doings and the
                    morrow's plans. Always a great walker, he rather prided himself on his three
                    miles a day at eighty, and his figure was a familiar one in all parts of the
                    village. But although "the old perfections of the earth" appealed to him more
                    and more with the passing years, they never took the place of human society.
                    "What should we do without people?" he murmured, gazing out at neighbors passing
                    by, on the day before he laid him down for the last time. Unfailing courage, and
                    ever-fresh enjoyment of nature and of the varying phases of human experience,
                    were among his most pronounced characteristics.
                Children came very close to him, and he had the art of entertaining them without
                    apparent effort. He had a fund of bear stories, and there was a favorite tale
                    about Captain Scott and the Coons. General Putnam and the Wolf was another
                    thrilling recital. In relating these there was more or less dramatic accessory,
                    and when the gun went off, "she-bang!" was always the climax.
                Whatever my father did he put his whole heart into. He worked impetuously and
                    indefatigably, and he played as he worked. In his youth he had enjoyed the game
                    of Town Ball, and his special delight always as a recreation from intellectual
                    labor was to toss a rubber ball against the, house, keeping it op the bound
                    sometimes ten or fifteen hundred times. The games of Base, and Hide and Seek,
                    and Blind Man's Buff were also favorites; but it was largely his own enthusiasm
                    and the abandon with which he entered into them that made them fascinating. This
                    it was that made his society so engaging,- the enthusiasm he felt for people and
                    things, coupled with an air of wisdom, as of one having a horizon much wider
                    than the average, every-day horizon.
                His opinions were uttered with a freedom and spontaneity that were refreshing,
                    and yet with a seriousness and tone of authority that were the fruit of deep
                    thinking and long experience. It was Miss Catharine Merrill, for fifty years a
                    teacher of English, who said that he talked in such complete sentences that they
                    had the quality of literature. I believe he never spoke without previous
                    thought.
                In all his talk there was a deep religious vein, a spirit of faith  in the Eternal Goodness, that was tonic in effect.
                    In his article entitled "A Search After Truth" he called himself a Theist, and
                    expressed his belief in personal immortality on the strength of the human
                    affections and because he could not think that "the unappeasable hunger of the
                    soul for so priceless a blessing was implanted to be ungratified." He believed
                    in the simple humanity of Jesus and in the renovating and ever-uplifting power
                    of his life and teachings in raising the world to higher and yet higher
                    conditions. The life and sufferings of the Nazarene were habitually in his
                    thoughts, and the story of the crucifixion always brought tears to his eyes.
                    Perhaps the most touching and terrible passage in literature, to him, was the
                    sentence, "My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?" This picture of awful
                    agony and utter loneliness was one not to be dwelt on, that yet laid hold of the
                    heart and imagination.
                Reverence was a marked characteristic of my father—reverence for God, and Truth,
                    and Duty. He was a good deal of a hero-worshiper, too, and certain names were
                    always spoken with tender regard and a glow of pride. Among these were Plato,
                    Dante, Bruno, Milton, Mazzini. But all his heroes did not belong to the past. He
                    had numerous idols among the men of his own time. Over the mantel in his library
                    hung portraits of William Ellery Channing, Theodore Parker and Ralph Waldo
                    Emerson, saint, reformer and seer, as he called them. It was not his privilege
                    to have known John Quincy Adams, the latter having died the year before my
                    father entered Congress. But Mr. Adams's character impressed him as few others
                    did, and he was almost as familiar with his career as with the alphabet. Charles
                    Sumner was another statesman of Abdiel-like proportions, whose greatness seemed
                    to tower higher with the receding years.
                Deference to old people was a trait always observed in my father,—so I am told by
                    his surviving cousins. The loneliness of the aged, even in the most favored
                    conditions, appealed to him; and the sight of age coupled with want caused him a
                    pang only equaled perhaps by the spectacle of a mind in ruins. To see one whom
                    he had known in the vigor of manhood fallen into a condition of mental decay was
                    not only unspeakably sad, but it seemed to fill him with a sort of awe.
                
                My father was fond of the theater, particularly in middle life, when he went as a
                    relaxation from the work and worry connected with the war period. Joseph
                    Jefferson as Rip Van Winkle he went to see annually, if possible, and he liked
                    to repeat Rip's farewell as he departed in the storm, and his beseeching words
                    to his new-made friends in the mountains: "Boys, do not leave me." The elder
                    Sothern as Lord Dundreary pleased him infinitely, and he imitated to perfection
                    the puzzled look of Dundreary when the latter attempted to repeat proverbs. The
                    funny little hop, or skip, that was also characteristic of Sothern in this part,
                    he could rehearse capitally, and did so during the last weeks of his life. The
                    Booths, father and son, and Fanny Kemble, were favorites. Edwin Forrest as King
                    Lear he never missed an opportunity of seeing, and I think he felt real pity for
                    the man or woman who had never heard Forrest's tone when he called on the dead
                    Cordelia to "stay a little." To the end of his life he spoke with enthusiastic
                    delight of Jenny Lind and Christine Nillson. He had not what is called a
                    cultivated ear, his taste being for simple things, especially for the Scotch
                    ballads. His voice was sweet and melodious, and he sang almost every day.
                    Sometimes it was a hymn that he had learned in childhood, but more often it was
                    one of Burns's songs,—the Banks o' Doon, Auld Lang Syne, or Highland Mary; and
                    his voice rang out with peculiar fervor to the thrilling strains of Bannockburn.
                In his youth he had committed to memory a great deal of poetry, and this he
                    retained in large measure to the last, while he regularly added to his stock
                    from the good things that appeared from time to time. As he lay awake at night
                    he would repeat page after page of Paradise Lost, and occasionally some fragment
                    that he had learned some fifty or sixty years before would come floating across
                    his memory, called from its hiding place none knew how. Until within the last
                    fifteen years, if asked who was his favorite poet after Shakespeare and Milton,
                    he would probably have said Tennyson; but about 1885 he became interested in the
                    poetry of Robert Browning, from which he derived great pleasure, and he repeated
                    more of Browning, I think, than of Tennyson thereafter. "In Memoriam" remained
                    without a rival in his regard, but there was a certain strength, a tone of
                    courage, about much of Browning's work that touched in him a responsive chord.
                
                He had a peculiar regard for books. They almost seemed to possess sentient life,
                    and he could not endure to see them tumbled about carelessly. In the primitive
                    society of his young days books were very rare and precious, and he never ceased
                    to regard them in that light. He cared greatly for philosophy, history,
                    biography, and sermons of men like Martineau and Channing. Novels he knew little
                    about, and he used to say that his early education along this line had been
                    neglected; but I fancy he did not realize how vast and important was the field
                    from which he was thus excluded. He had, of course, read certain classics, such
                    as Tristram Shandy, Don Quixote, Les Miserables, Consuelo, and a number of
                    George Eliot's, and he did not forget them, as habitual fiction readers do.
                With his tall figure, which attracted attention wherever he went, there was a
                    remarkable dignity of mein, and also a frankness of manner that, as was said of
                    Uncle Toby, "let you at once into his soul." Like Uncle Toby, too, there was
                    something about him, at least in later life, that seemed to make a special
                    appeal to the unfortunate and unhappy. I often regretted this, because it added
                    to the burdens on his heart. People used to come to him for counsel and advice
                    on all sorts of topics, even those who did not know him well, feeling
                    instinctively his friendly spirit. Perhaps one reason for this was his manifest
                    sincerity and earnestness. He had no patience with vain, silly people, and when
                    they endeavored to talk with him, it was apt to be a very one-sided affair, for
                    his part of the conversation consisted largely of monosyllables and grunts. But
                    he always sought to introduce higher and worthier themes than the ordinary
                    chit-chat. He often read to a caller an extract from a book he was perusing, or
                    something timely from a magazine or newspaper. He never made people feel small;
                    he was too kindly and gracious for that. There was, however, a reserve about him
                    that made him appear austere and unbending to those who did not really know him.
                    This was chiefly due to a native shyness that he never outgrew,—a timidity
                    against which he always struggled, but which was, in fact, one of his most
                    winning qualities.
                In his prime his hair and beard were black, but they began to whiten rather
                    early. His eyes were hazel, remarkably clear, and they retained their young look to the very last. His smile  was the most unclouded I have ever seen, beginning
                    with the eyes, and then all at once suffusing the whole face with sunshine.
                A more agreeable household companion than my father it is impossible for me to
                    imagine. There was a bird in his bosom whose song could not be quenched. Pain
                    and sorrow did sometimes silence it, but not for long. He had that attribute
                    commonly possessed by the young, the ability to lose himself in a ray of fancy
                    at any moment. He took great delight in words, and the dictionary was consulted
                    many times every day, up to the last three or four days of his life. He had a
                    fashion of applying a great variety of proper names to me, and when I entered
                    his room each morning I was playfully addressed by a different
                    appellation,—almost any name, from "Pio Nono" down to that of the Washington
                    printer who used to print his speeches and whose un-euphonious patronymn was
                    "Pokenhorn." The numerous little attentions which his weakness rendered
                    necessary were always kept from being irksome by the relation of an amusing
                    anecdote or reminiscence. Sometimes he would imitate the tone and manner of
                    Henry Clay as he addressed the Senate, or of an old 
                        Virginia
                     planter whom he had once known; again, he would be Hamlet, or Lear,
                    or one of Milton's devils. It was something different each time, so that there
                    was the temptation frequently to prolong the task for the sake of the
                    entertainment.
                His sense of humor was of the keenest, and his laugh was hearty and contagious.
                    As he grew older, people became more and more attentive to him, and he was
                    sometimes much entertained by the superlative exertions of street-car conductors
                    and other kind persons who evidently thought him even more frail than he really
                    was. The old gentleman up at Catawba Island who carefully lifted his foot for
                    him when he was about to step aboard the boat was never forgotten, and the laugh
                    occasioned by that performance betokened no lack of gratitude for the intended
                    service.
                He was everywhere a favorite with servants, because he endeavored to make as
                    little trouble as possible and never omitted a "Thank you" or a word of
                    appreciation where it was due. The maid who waited upon him at breakfast was as
                    sure of a cheery "Good-morning" as was the guest who sat at table. His tastes in
                    the matter of food were simple in the extreme, bread and  milk forming the basis of each meal. He never used
                    tobacco, and while not pledged to total abstinence as to spirituous liquors, his
                    use of them was almost wholly medicinal. Coming of a Quaker ancestry, all
                    display of whatever sort was distasteful to him, and to be in debt was a
                    condition he could not endure. I think he was peculiarly free from little
                    eccentricities, such as characterize many old people, a sound common-sense being
                    one of his chief endowments.
                Laundresses were the objects of his particular consideration and pity, and
                    although very fastidious about his wearing apparel, I believe he never threw
                    aside a garment without a sigh at thought of the work he was making necessary.
                    He liked to listen to the sound as the clothes were rubbed up and down in the
                    tub; it carried him back to the days when his mother did the washing- for her
                    little family.
                His father died when he was too young to have really known him, and with his
                    strong affections he lavished a double love upon the parent who was left to bear
                    the burden of life alone. His face glowed with filial pride when he spoke of her
                    struggles and sacrifices, and I am sure that one of the chief pleasures of his
                    life was the satisfaction she took in his success. His first great sorrow was on
                    the occasion of thedeath of John M. Julian, the gifted brother whose early
                    taking-off cast a shadow that never vanished from my father's path. His own
                    immediate family was four times visited by death, in the loss of his first wife
                    and two children and of my mother. I saw him in one of these bereavements, and
                    the unselfish heroism of his attitude was a lesson for a lifetime. He liked
                    sometimes to talk to a sympathetic listener of the loved ones gone, and so I
                    came to know very well his brother so long lost, and the wife of his youth, as
                    he called her; and it is hard to realize that I never actually saw "Louie," the
                    little son who died when only nine years old, so habitually was he in my
                    father's thoughts and conversation. With his large heart and sensitive nature he
                    felt keenly the sorrows of others, and his words of condolence were always
                    fitting and full of meaning.
                It was his custom to take note of anniversaries. The 19th of April, the 17th of
                    June, and such dates were always observed in some way. Anniversaries of events
                    in his own life he would also  call attention
                    to, as, for instance: "My child, sixty years ago to-day my brother John died,"
                    and then he would talk of his brother's character, or describe his appearance.
                    Again he would say: "Fifty years ago to-day I was first married," and he would
                    go on and tell about the wedding,—how "Father Hoshour" officiated, how his girl
                    wife looked, in her white frock, and how, of the gay company then assembled, all
                    but two or three had passed to the Great Beyond.
                It has been said, and I think truly, that a man's relations to woman, how he
                    regards her and how he acts toward her, are the most significant things about
                    him. My father certainly drew to him good women wherever he went, and his "five
                    hundred lovers" were the subject of inexhaustible raillery on the part of my
                    mother, who thoroughly enjoyed this side of his make-up. It was no show of
                    gallantry on his part that won the favor of the other sex; but there was about
                    him a certain indefinable air of goodness, together with the artlessness of a
                    child, and an ever-ready and boundless sympathy or fellow-feeling, that appealed
                    at once to some men, but more often to the finer intuitions of women. One of
                    these friends writes: "I can never forget the culture tone
                    that characterized him as one met him in society and in his home,—the absolute
                    lack of that coarseness that is so much a part of our modern politician. Without
                    knowing his history, I could as easily have said that he was a poet or litterateur." His daughter's friends felt for him a genuine
                    affection, and he was seldom too absorbed in any task to stop and chat with
                    them. "He seemed so much more than father," said one of them; "no, not that, but
                        all that a father could be—the fullness of fatherhood."
                His ideal of womanhood was the highest; yet it was not sentimentally
                    rose-colored. He was fortunate in being all his life associated with
                    high-minded, self-reliant, gentle woman, and it was this association,
                    reinforcing his own best judgment, that early convinced him of the right and
                    duty of woman to share equally with man in the civil and political life of
                    society. He carried on a most interesting correspondence with Lydia Maria Child,
                    chiefly on political topics, during the years from 1862 to 1878. He was a great
                    admirer of Lucretia Mott, seeking her council in early manhood and enjoying her
                    friendship until her  death in 1880. Besides
                    these well-known names, there was a long list of women friends with whom he was
                    on terms of delightful intimacy and comradeship. He liked to make social calls,
                    and this was a practice kept up till the last, especially in his own
                    neighborhood.
                A word in regard to the two women most closely associated with my father. He was
                    first married at the age of twenty-eight to Miss Anne E. Finch, who was ten
                    years younger. She is said to have been very beautiful, of the blond type, gay
                    and impulsive in disposition, with a certain shy winsomeness that made for her
                    friends wherever she went. She was thoroughly interested in public affairs, and
                    accompanied him to 
                        Washington
                     during his first term in Congress, where she enjoyed meeting and
                    hearing the great men of the day. She died of consumption in 1860. It is
                    interesting to note that the friend to whom my father turned most frequently in
                    his sorrow was Mr. Giddings of 
                        Ohio
                     (whose daughter was afterwards to become his wife)—"Father
                    Giddings," as he always called him, between whom and himself there was a strong
                    bond of sympathy dating from their first meeting, at the 
                        Buffalo
                     Convention of 1848. Giddings was a believer in spiritualism, and he
                    tried to enlist my father in this, to him, satisfying and comforting faith. He
                    had known and admired Mrs. Julian, and hence he felt a certain near and personal
                    interest in the case. But my father was so constituted that it was impossible
                    for him to accept anything bordering on the mystical and supernatural; his
                    practical mind instinctively turning away from the "twilights of thought" to the
                    clear sunshine of reason, and resting in an abiding trust that steadily grew
                    throughout the years. In regard to the various so-called demonstrations of
                    spiritual mediums, I have heard him quote Emerson's words: "Shun them as you
                    would the secrets of the undertaker and the butcher. * * * The whole world is an
                    omen and a sign. Why look so wistfully in a corner? Man is the image of God. Why
                    run after a ghost or a dream?"
                His consolation had to come through the softening effect of time and by plunging
                    with all his might into the duties of his public position. The war was coming
                    on, and he gave his days and nights to Congressional labors. One thing he never
                    learned,  and that was to work in moderation.
                    It was during these years that he laid the foundation for the sleeplessness and
                    other maladies that pursued him to the end of his days. From scrap-books I find
                    that newspapers began to note his break-down in 1865, and soon afterwards he
                    entered upon those persistent and weary efforts to repair his once hardy and
                    robust constitution
                A little more than three years after the death of his first wife he was married
                    to Miss Laura A. Giddings, whom he met for the first time in 1862 in 
                        Washington
                    . She was the youngest daughter of his old friend, and was
                    twenty-two years my father's junior. But there did not seem so great a disparity
                    of age, because my mother was very tall and had a marked dignity of bearing.
                    This at once impressed everyone who met her,—a stateliness that was as native to
                    her as the air she breathed, but that seemed somehow to set her apart from all
                    other women. She had dark eyes and hair, her face being one that depended
                    largely for its beauty on the play of expression. She had been educated at
                    Oberlin and Antioch Colleges, and had spent a number of seasons with her father
                    in 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        Montreal
                    , thus receiving a training in political affairs that was quite
                    unusual at that time among women. On account of her father's ill health she had
                    also learned to look after his physical comfort and to save his strength in all
                    possible ways. This tender care she transferred to her husband, and for twenty
                    years was his constant companion and his trusted advisor on all questions,
                    public and private. She read to him, wrote at his dictation, looked up
                    authorities, and was completely a part of himself. Like my father, she cared
                    greatly for society, and the deafness that came upon her within the last ten
                    years of her life was a severe trial. But her husband's gifts as a reporter went
                    far to atone for what she had thus missed, and his efforts along this line were
                    richly rewarded by her manifest delight in the narrations. She died, as her
                    father had done, of angina pectoris, which came without any
                    warning.
                As a public speaker, my father had the advantage of a full, rich voice and a
                    remarkable flow of language. He spoke slowly, with little gesture, but always
                    earnestly. He never ranted, his style and manner being those of familiar,
                    friendly conversation. The logical faculty was well developed in him,  and all who have described his speaking bear
                    witness to his mastery of the weapons of irony, sarcasm and invective, as well
                    as a certain sly humor that was quite irresistible. This last is the quality
                    that most impressed me as I listened to him during three presidential
                    campaigns,—humor, and an air as if he were talking with friends at the fireside.
                    In reading his speeches I think one would infer his familiarity with the Bible,
                    Milton and Carlyle, his style somehow suggesting these models.
                His last sure grasp of things was on Wednesday, July 5, 1899, when he was about
                    the house as usual, only seeming very tired and lying down a great deal. The
                    next day he did not leave his bed, and on Friday, the 7th, at a few minutes
                    before eleven he breathed his last, his age being eighty-two years, two months
                    and two days. Death came to him not unkindly, but as a friend whom he welcomed.
                    In his rambling talk the day before, his mind had rapidly gone over his whole
                    life,—the early years on his mother's farm, political conditions in the old
                    Burnt District, the war and reconstruction, etc. He frequently spoke of the
                    beautiful day, and asked if I were "a spirit from another world." About noon, as
                    he lay looking at me, I began to repeat a favorite verse from Browning's Earth's Immortalities:
                     "So, the year's done with! (Love me forever!) All
                        March begun with, April's endeavor; May-wreaths that bound me June needs
                        must sever! Now snows fall round me, Quenching June's fever— (Love me
                        forever!)"  He gave the alternate lines, joining in faintly with the
                    "forever" at the close. He became quite unconscious towards evening, and
                    remained so till the end, when a look of recognition came into his eyes and he
                    was gone.
                At the funeral, three days later, he lay on the library couch, as friends were
                    wont to see him, and there was naught to indicate anything unusual but the
                    flowers that were everywhere, and the stillness. Frederic E. Dewhurst, of
                    Plymouth Church, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , spoke briefly and fittingly of his life and character,  and two hymns, "Nearer, My God, to Thee," and
                    Chadwick's "Song of the Silent Ones," were rendered. It was regretted that
                    Jenkin Lloyd Jones, of 
                        Chicago
                    , who had been invited to assist in the services, was unable to
                    come.
                The actual presence of death has an impressiveness all its own. But the hush that
                    fell upon us when we realized that his spirit had departed was sweetened with
                    gratitude, not only for the long and dedicated life, but for the manner of its
                    close. After a full, rich day, the sunset was unclouded. One of the saddest
                    spectacles, my father thought, was that of an aged man whose work was finished,
                    lingering on and longing for release. In 1890 Stephen S. Harding, then
                    eighty-three and blind for years, wrote him a most pathetic letter, which he
                    closed as follows: "When you hear of my demise, which will be before long,
                    strike hands with some old friend and thank God it is all over!" So we were
                    grateful that in his case the summons came in the midst of activity and
                    congenial surroundings, when life, though complete, had not lost its relish. But
                    it is not strange, so tireless and irrepressible was his spirit, that to those
                    who loved him the idea of death is lost sight of in the thought of continuing
                    growth and development. As Emerson said of his brother, "I read now his pages, I
                    remember all his words and motives, without any pang, so healthy and human a
                    life it was."
            
            
            
                MR. JULIAN'S AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
                The subject of the foregoing "Impressions" left in the possession of his
                    daughter, Mrs. Clark, a manuscript autobiography which affords some intimate
                    glimpses of an interesting career. Mr. Julian's progress from the humblest
                    estate to eminence by the sheer force of a conquering will and strong
                    personality makes a life story that is inspiring and stimulating. When he was
                    about six years old his father died and his mother was left, all but penniless,
                    with a family of children to provide for. The autobiography describes the battle
                    of life at this period as a battle for life. The family wrung
                    such support as they could out of a barren farm. They wove their Own cloth for
                    the homemade garments and eked out their slender income by weaving for the
                    neighbors, while the boys occupied the rainy days weaving straw hats. In the
                    spring the sugar grove was made to yield sweets for their table and as much
                    additional revenue as possible.
                In such a life there was little to foster an interest in books, and small chance
                    to gratify such an interest if aroused. Nevertheless, the interest was nourished
                    in this family,* and the divine spark found fuel to feed
                    upon. The MS. tells us how young George raised his first funds for the
                    indulgence of a growing passion. "I gathered each year," it says, "a large crop
                    of walnuts—one fall as many as sixteen bushels—and sold the hulls at Nathan
                    Bond's carding and fulling mills, at six cents per bushel, for money with which
                    to buy books and stationery." He attended the country school of winters, and
                    though he speaks of himself as an unpromising dullard, yet by virtue of a
                    "dogged perseverance" he applied himself to his studies with an assiduity that
                    soon brought him abreast of his teachers. "I renounced," he says, "the society
                    of my playmates and gave myself wholly to my books. My Sundays were especially
                    set apart for study, and I was up till a late hour in the night poring over my
                    tasks 
                        
                            *It should be noted that these aspirations were not
                            confined to George. John, the eldest brother, evinced unusual
                            endowments; Jacob became a jurist, and Isaac, still living, a journalist
                            and writer of both prose and verse.
                    
                     by the light of a fire kept up by
                    ‘kindlings,’ which I regularly prepared as a substitute for the candles we could
                    not afford."
                At the age of eighteen he taught school, and was, doubtless, far more proficient
                    than the average country teacher of that day. Having no instructor, he studied
                    by himself, as best he could, rhetoric and logic, natural philosophy, chemistry,
                    astronomy, mathematics and surveying, and seems to have made considerable
                    progress in these abstruse branches. A list of his general reading, also,
                    reveals the solidity of his acquirements. Among those enumerated are: Russell's
                    History of Modern Europe, Hume's History of 
                        England
                    , Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, Goldsmith's
                    histories of 
                        Greece
                     and 
                        Rome
                     Plutarch's Lives, the English poets, Locke's Essays, Abercrombie on
                    the Intellectual Powers, Watts on the Mind, Combe on the Constitution of Man,
                    Dr. Spurzheim's works on phrenology and education, Paine's political works,
                    Godwin's Political Justice, Sterne's works, Don Quixote, Fielding's novels,
                    Ossian's poems, etc.
                Mr. Julian repeatedly speaks of an abnormal timorousness and self-distrust that
                    seemed an almost insuperable obstacle to his advancement. The assertiveness and
                    efficiency as a public speaker that distinguished him in later years was
                    acquired only by the most rigorous training and persistent self-conquest. When,
                    by the advice of a friend, he turned to the study of law, it was with so little
                    faith that he pursued his reading secretly and half ashamed. To pass an
                    examination and secure a license to practice was the easiest part. In the
                    assurance necessary to the young lawyer he was utterly lacking. By way of
                    cultivating it he hung about the courts at 
                        Centerville
                    , trying to familiarize himself with the customs of the profession,
                    and a litttle later on, after he had removed to 
                        Greenfield
                    , he tells of a "dark lyceum"—an altogether novel institution
                    consisting solely of himself and one other bashful young man who sought to
                    engender courage by making speeches at each other, which forensic efforts were
                    carried on in a dark room so as to reduce the embarassment. By way of adding
                    dignity and impressiveness to these meetings they were presided over by a
                    "premier," whose duty it was to "preserve order and decide the debated
                    questions." Each speaker, after his turn on the floor, would become the  premier and let the other descend from the
                    chair and make his argument. The progress attained by these half ludicrous, half
                    pathetic and wholly earnest efforts was so slight that the auto-biographer is
                    moved to speak of it as "all in vain," and he adds: "Sometimes, in my despair, I
                    felt that I must break the chains which bound me, but I was powerless to do so,
                    and no word of encouragement from any quarter cheered me. If I had had a single
                    trusted friend to say to me, ‘Be of courage; fear not; you can conquer,’ it
                    would have lifted a great weight from my heart and opened the pathway to my
                    deliverance."
                His first case in court is described by Mr. Julian. "It was tried," he says,
                    "before a country justice of the peace, and N. W. Miner, of 
                        Dublin
                    , was the opposing counsel. We were both frightened as if
                    panic-stricken, and it now seems to me so ridiculous that I almost doubt my own
                    recollection. The justice was a good-natured old farmer who knew less law than
                    either of us and whose judgment of our rhetoric was quite indifferent. The
                    amount involved was only a few dollars, and in no case could there be serious
                    consequences to body or soul; and yet, in opening our case and making our
                    speeches we fairly quaked with nervous fear."
                Mr. Julian's career, from his entrance into politics, in 1840, is traced in his
                    published volume, "Political Recollections." The autobiography, dealing with
                    personal matters prior to that date, is chiefly valuable as a record of a
                    self-made man, and as showing how such a man, gifted with native force and
                    strong will, can, in the face of many handicaps, hew his way grimly to a place
                    in the front ranks. Dealing with the development of a man who accomplished
                    things, it has the germaine biographical value, and if published (especially if
                    edited with reference to matter already published) would make a desirable
                    addition to the biographical literature of the State. G.S.C.
            
            
            
                EARLY 
                        INDIANAPOLIS
                    .
                THE FLETCHER PAPERS—SECOND INSTALMENT.
                
                    The First Wedding Celebration and the First "Poem"—The First
                        Campaign: Whitewater vs. Kentucky—Numerous Candidates—First Political
                        Pamphlets and "Handbills"—Voting Precincts— Election and Successful
                        Candidates—Citizens' Resolutions Against Campaign Methods.
                
                
                    From the 
                            Indianapolis
                         News of April 19, 1879.
                
                THE earliest marriage in or around 
                        Indianapolis
                     was undoubtedly that of Jeremiah Johnson and Miss Jane Reagan,
                    which took place early in 1821. In this case Johnson walked all the way to 
                        Connersville
                     and back—about 120 miles—for his license, and then the lovers had
                    to wait weary weeks before the first clergyman (Rev. Mr. McClung) came along.
                    The second marriage has been more fully recorded. One of the early settlers here
                    was Mr. Thomas Chinn, from 
                        Virginia
                    , who was the first person that imported blooded stock into 
                        Indianapolis
                    . All the old boys will recall his fine stallion, "Black Hawk," and
                    his gigantic bull, "Walk-in-the-Water." Mr. Chinn built him a log cabin on the
                    bank of Pogue's Run, on what was afterward called "Noble's pasture." That log
                    cabin, with its great split puncheon floor, I remember was still standing,
                    though uninhabited, in 1834. Now, Mr. Chinn had a smart, bright-eyed daughter,
                    named Patsy. One of the young men who came to settle in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was Uriah Gates. He and Miss Patsy soon found that their "hearts
                    beat as one," and on the 22d of January, 1822, the second wedding in 
                        Indianapolis
                     came off, Justice McIlvain tying the nuptial knot. The town was so
                    small that everybody was invited. My mother in her journal says:
                
                    
                        
                            
                                "Tuesday, January 22, 1822. Mr. Gates was to-day wedded to Miss
                                    Patsy Chinn, both of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . I attended the wedding. It was a very disagreeable
                                    day, but notwithstanding there was a great concourse of people
                                    present. Wednesday, 23d, I attended a party at Mr. Reagan's, for
                                    Mr. R. gave the newly-married  couple an infare. We danced until ten o'clock, and then came
                                    home."
                            
                        
                    
                
                 This wedding was described to me by my father as a great affair. There was
                    plenty to eat and drink, and what the French call the piece de
                        resistance consisted of a good-sized porker roasted whole, mounted on
                    the table with a large apple in its mouth.* The first copy
                    of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Gazette appeared January 28, 1822, and contains the wedding
                    announcement and an original poem written for the occasion. [See note at end of
                    this instalment.]
                
                    From the News of April 26.
                
                At the first election in 
                        Indianapolis
                     there was an army of office-seekers. That they began skirmishing a
                    long time in advance can be seen by the account which I gave of the Christmas of
                    1821, when candidates bought the only barrel of cider in town and treated the
                    sovereigns, who afterward anchored the cider down with brandy and "bald-face."
                    The "ball" at Wyant's (on New Year's day) was a social affair nominally, but
                    there, too, were many of the candidates with their most affable smiles. In a
                    recent interview with Mrs. Martin (daughter of George Smith, one of the founders
                    of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Gazette) I ascertained that she was present on that occasion
                    and took her part in the dance. Mrs. Martin says that she went to Wyant's in
                    Hogden's "carriage." This last she describes as a great "lumbering thing," like
                    the "mud wagons" employed by the old stage companies in the spring and winter.
                    The supper prepared on this New Year's day, 1822, for the robust ancestors of
                    many of the present Indianapolitans was also described by her. There was, she
                    said, in the open fireplace an immense kettle or cauldron, which contained no
                    less than sixteen gallons of coffee, and there were pans, skillets and other
                    vessels in which were biscuits, sweet bread and that best of all cakes, the real
                    old pound-cake. That New Year's party was composed of every grade in society, so
                    that the candidates had an excellent opportunity to see the people, for my
                    father told me that invitations were extended to everybody, down to the humblest
                    inhabitant of the meanest log cabin on the donation.
                On that memorable Christmas, 1821, a number of the candidates had already
                    declared themselves, and my father records the following: 
                        
                            *See Nowland's "Early Reminiscences," pp.
                        128-130.
                    
                
                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                "I will here mention the names of some of the candidates for
                                    office in our new county. For associate judges, James McIlvain
                                    and Mr. Patterson; county clerk, James M. Ray, Milo R. Davis, J.
                                    Hawkins, et al.; for county commissioners, Messrs. Hogden,
                                    Osburn and Morrow."
                            
                        
                    
                
                In his journal for the 3d day of January, 1822, my father writes:
                
                    
                        
                            
                                "Kept close in the morning and wrote letters. In the afternoon
                                    visited the river (the largest part of the population was on the
                                    east bank of the river). I find the people much agitated about
                                    the approaching election." 
                            
                        
                    
                
                The candidates, it seems, were not the only canvassers. The people were in that
                    business, for my father continues: "
                
                    
                        
                            
                                There is much canvassing of the character of the candidates and
                                    their eligibility. There is hardly a man in town but offers
                                    himself for some office, either civil or military."
                            
                        
                    
                
                The divisions were not according to the political parties of the day. They were
                    local, or, rather, geographical. My father informed me that the combatants were
                    ranged under the titles of "Whitewater" and "Kentucky." The emigration from
                    those two sections was simultaneous. The people from Whitewater were as clannish
                    as those from 
                        Kentucky
                    , and each wished to have the distribution of the public loaves and
                    fishes. The Whitewater party had some advantage over Kentucky, in that it had
                    received some accessions from people from 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     who had resided long enough in the eastern part of the State to
                    qualify them as voters, while many of the Ken-tuckians had not resided a year in
                    the State. The Whitewater people were consummate politicians. They had been led
                    and disciplined by such men as Jonathan Jennings, the two Nobles and Jesse B.
                    Thomas previous to their arrival in the New Purchase. My father informed me that
                    these were men of talent, and that greater adepts at political warfare never
                    lived.
                
                    From the News of May 10.
                
                The politicial war-horses of Whitewater and Kentucky did a great deal of vigorous
                    pawing in February, 1822. The proprietors of the Indiana
                    Gazette wisely considered that they would not be too partisan. They decided
                    that both parties, if they wished the benefit of the art of printing, must pay
                    the printer.  It was the fashion of the day
                    in the east and in the newer States of the west to issue pamphlets. The first
                    author of a pamphlet or of any other publication (except the Gazette) in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was not from New England or from 
                        New York
                    , but from 
                        Kentucky
                    . The late Morris Morris was our first author. The greatest battle
                    to be fought at the election of 1822 was, without doubt, to be over the
                    clerkship for the new county. Whitewater and Kentucky chose their best men. The
                    first selected a young man from 
                        New Jersey
                    . He was of undoubted gifts; he had studied at Columbia College, 
                        New York
                    ; he was a fine penman, and had a neatness of dress and address not
                    often found on the frontier. He had resided in the southern part of the State,
                    and had been deputy clerk at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and 
                        Connersville
                    . This was James M. Ray, a quiet young man but a famous "still
                    hunter." The Kentucky party also selected a strong man. One of nature's noblemen
                    was Morris Morris, who came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 
                        Carlisle
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , in October, 1821. It seems that the battle must have been already
                    sharp long before Sheriff Hervey Bates issued, on the 22d of February, the
                    proclamation for the election, for I find in my mother's journal the following
                    entry, telling of an evening of a busy day. Under date of January 30 she says:
                
                    
                        
                            
                                "Mr. Morris has written a pamphlet and had it put in print. Mr.
                                    Fletcher has just jeft me to write an answer to it, and I am all
                                    alone this evening."
                            
                        
                    
                
                Again she writes:
                
                    
                        
                            
                                "Saturday, February 2. Mrs. Buckner dined with us, and after she
                                    went away Mr. Osburn came and staid all night." The husband of
                                    Mrs. Buckner was one of the candidates for county commissioner.
                                    The Mr. Osburn mentioned was another of the candidates for
                                    commissioner. He was a mercnant and quite a politician, and no
                                    doubt was at my father's that evening to consult on the reply to
                                    Morris Morris's "pamphlet."
                            
                        
                    
                
                This reply appeared in the shape of a handbill, for my mother writes the next
                    day:
                
                    
                        
                            
                                "Sunday, 3d of February. The handbill came out in opposition to
                                    what Mr. Morris wrote."
                            
                        
                    
                
                While my father was never a violent partisan, he had decided opinions. In this
                    election he was a Whitewater man, and took a deep interest in the formation of
                    the county, but he sought  no office, and as
                    early as November 8th, 1821, he writes: "I find there are much strife and
                    contention amongst the citizens of this place. I sincerely hope to escape all
                    censure by asking no favors for myself."
                In those days it is evident that the Sunday was not observed as strictly as at
                    present. On several occasions in the campaign I learn from my mother's journal
                    that the "printing office was visited by her in company with her husband on that
                    day." On February 15 she writes: "Mr. Morris's second handbill came out."
                    "Handbill" can not be taken in the usual acceptation of the term. It was larger
                    than what we as present understand as such, and is used indiscriminately with
                    the word pamphlet. It was half the size of the Gazette,
                    printed on one side, and was usually nailed up in a public place. On the same
                    date the journal continues as follows: "I went to bed early, but Mr. F. was
                    writing an answer to the handbill, and did not go to bed that night. Sunday Mr.
                    F. went to bed early in the afternoon and slept till 8 P. M., when I awakened
                    him and we both went to the printing office and staid until 2 o'clock in the
                    morning." The dairy further reads:
                
                    
                        
                            
                                "Monday, 18th February, 1822. In the morning the handbills came
                                    out, and great was the mystery. Curiosity was aroused to know
                                    who the ‘Legal Voter’ [doubtless the signature] alluded to when
                                    he mentioned ‘Col. Puff-back, Captain Swell-back and
                                myself.’"
                            
                        
                    
                
                Skipping over many pages which refer to long consultations and threatened suits
                    for slander, I come to Sunday, March 31st, the day before the election, when my
                    mother records: I spent the day very unsatisfactorily, for there were so many
                    candidates coming in that I could neither read nor write nor do anything else."
                On April 1st came the shock of battle. There were thirty-three candidates
                    recorded in the Gazette, but in the journals I find there are
                    others mentioned which would make up the number to nearly forty, In 1846 I had
                    an interview with Mrs. Paxton on this election, and she remarked: "I wondered at
                    that time where all the voters were to come from, for it seemed to me that
                    almost every man in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was a candidate for office." There were five for county clerk alone
                    (the clerkship  was for seven years). It will
                    be remembered that 
                        Marion county
                     was then five times its present size, comprehending the present
                    county, with the addition of 
                        Johnson
                    , 
                        Hamilton
                    , and parts of 
                        Boone
                    , 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Hancock
                    . The voting precincts were announced in the proclamation to be at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Finch's (near 
                        Noblesville
                    ), Page's (
                        Strawtown
                    ), 
                        Anderson
                     and 
                        Pendleton
                    .
                It is thirty-three years since [in 1846] after a conversation with my father, I
                    published in the Indiana Journal on account of this first
                    election, and in that communiction I used this description of the place where
                    the election was held in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , viz.: "The election was held in the house of General John Carr,
                    which stands in the rear of Beck's gunsmith shop, nearly opposite the office of
                    H. P. Coburn, Esq."* That description would not answer for
                    the present generation, but when I state that the double hewed-log cabin of
                    General Carr stood on Delaware street nearly opposite the west end of the
                    court-house, all can understand.
                If whisky played its part at McGeorge's, down at the river, in 1821, it performed
                    a greater part on the 1st of April, 1822, when, it is computed, the quantities
                    drank must be reckoned in barrels. Kentucky was not to be outdone by Whitewater
                    in the matter of political hospitality. The political issues were entirely
                    geographical and liquid, and Whitewater and whisky carried the day against
                    Kentucky and whisky. The successful candidates were overwhelmingly Whitewater.
                    James Mcllvain and Eliakim Harding were chosen associate judges; James M. Ray
                    was elected clerk; Joseph C. Reed, recorder; Messrs. Osburn, McCormick and
                    McCartney became the first commissioners. James M. Ray received the highest vote
                    in the wide district, viz., 217 votes out of 336. In the 
                        Indianapolis
                     district (an area as great as the present county) the number of
                    votes was 224, which shows that the population of what we now understand as 
                        Marion county
                     was but little more than 1000. The party lines of Kentucky and
                    Whitewater were kept up about three years, but were then harmoniously fused.
                Among the defeated candidates for recorder was Alexander 
                        
                            *This reveals the authorship of an anonymous series
                            to be found in the Journal of the date mentioned. See
                            note at end of this instalment.
                    
                     Ralston, to whom, more than any other
                    person, we owe the beautiful plan of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . While there are many of our streets bearing the names of
                    individuals, there is not even an alley named in memory of the man who planned
                    the city.
                NOTE.—The earliest historical account of 
                        Indianapolis
                     known to us appears as a series of unsigned articles in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal. These contributions, under the heading of "
                        Indianapolis
                     a Quarter of a Century Ago," appeared irregularly in both the
                    weekly and the tri-weekly editions from November 4, 1846, to March 23, 1847.
                    Sundry correspondences between that series and the one here published identifies
                    Mr. J. C. Fletcher as the author of the earlier one. Most that is in that series
                    is comprehended in this, but in the former are at least two items that we regard
                    as rather a "find." The first of these, taken from the Indiana
                        Gazette, is of considerable interest in connection with the strenuous
                    Kentucky and Whitewater campaign and the accompanying candidate nuisance. It is
                    an account of "a meeting of the inhabitants of this county, over which Dr. S. G.
                    Mitchell presided and Dr. Coe acted as secretary." At this meeting "sunday
                    resolutions were passed condemning the soliciting of votes of elections by the
                    candidates for public offices, either from favor, flattery, promises,
                    entertainments, treats or rewards, as anti-republican in its principles,
                    injurious to the public peace, interests and morals, troublesome, degrading and
                    corrupting to the candidate. And," concludes this presumably disgusted conclave,
                    "we do resolve that we will withhold our support from all who in the future
                    resort to such practices." [See tri-weekly Journal of November
                    27, 1846.]
                The other historical bit is of literary interest, as it is the first "poem"
                    written, or at least published, in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . It celebrated the Gates-Chinn wedding described by Mr. Fletcher
                    and Mr. Nowland, and appeared in the first number of the Gazette. As a literary curiosity it speaks for itself:
                
                    "Come Hymen, now, and bear thy sway In 
                            Indianapolis
                        , And hasten on the wished-for day That crowns the nuptial
                        bliss.
                    
                    May conquering love lend his aid, And lead direct to thy altar The sacred
                        virgin, the experienced maid, The trembling youth and batchelor.
                    But all ye powers of mortal joy, Come bless the wedded pair; Give them bliss
                        without alloy, Peace and health and pleasing care."
                
                It may be added that the second output of the muse was also inspired by Hymen,
                    for some months later, in connection with the wedding announcement of William C.
                    McDougal and Cyntitha Reagan, appeared the following:
                
                    "Hail, generous youth, and hail thou lovely fair, Love, joy and peace be now
                        your only care. The wished-for day hath fixed the sacred tie, And given you
                        mutual, full felicity.
                    Long may Aurora shine amid the spheres, And see your joys increase through
                        length of years, When sweet reflection views the day that's past, Be each
                        succeeding happier than the last."
                
                There was no relation, seemingly, between the quality of the poetry and the after
                    happiness invoked by the poets, for though this second effusion limped much less
                    painfully over the metrical road, Cyntitha, in due course, left McDougal's bed
                    and board, and he advertised her, warning the public not to trust her on his
                    account. Mr. and Mrs. Gates, on the other hand, journeyed amicably together
                    through their lives, leaving children and their children's children, who at the
                    present day make part of our population.
                Who these first versifiers were is forever lost to history.—Editor.
                
            
            
            
                THE EARLY SCHOOLS OF 
                        INDIANA
                    .
                FROM THE PAPERS OF D. D. BANTA—SECOND INSTALMENT.
                
                    The Pioneer School Children— Winter Schools and Hardships of the
                        Little Folks—Early Teachers—Their Character and Inefficiency — Their Status
                        with the People—Their Pay—Queer Characters and Customs.
                
                
                    From the 
                            Indianapolis
                         News of February 3, 1892.
                
                BEFORE advancing upon the "masters," the books, the methods, the manners and the
                    customs of the pioneer schools, something ought to be said of the pioneer
                    children who made these schools a necessity.
                Let me recall the reader's attention to the long paths that ofttimes stretched
                    their serpentine ways between the cabin homes and the cabin schoolhouses—two,
                    three and even four miles long, they sometimes were. In general it was a fall or
                    winter school that was kept—most generally a winter, for every child big enough
                    to work was required at home to aid in the support of the family. We of to-day,
                    with our farms all made and with a superabundance of farm machinery, can
                    scarcely conceive of the extremities to which the pioneer farmers were often
                    driven to secure the planting, tilling and harvesting of the crops. And so the
                    children, in the beginning, could be spared best in the winter seasons, and in
                    consequence the country schools were in general, winter schools.
                Happy were those children who had a fall school to attend! The long and winding
                    school-paths threaded a region of delights. What schoolboy or schoolgirl of
                    those far-off days can ever forget the autumnal wood with its many-hued foliage,
                    its fragrant and nutty odors, its red, ripe haws, and its clusters of wild
                    grapes; its chinquapins [acorns of the ‘pin oak] and its hickory nuts? And think
                    of the wild life that was part of it all! Gray squirrels barked and chattered
                    from tree to tree, while the voices of glad birds were heard amid the branches
                    from sun to sun. And the school-paths themselves! Were there ever such paths as
                    those winding over hill and through hollow, and filled,  as they were, with dainty, rustling leaves that
                    were as cool and soft to schoolboy foot as silken carpet?
                But how different the winter school! When the snow came, blockading the paths,
                    how it tried the temper of the young folk who were limited to one pair of shoes
                    per winter. And how infinitely worse was it when the winter rains came. The
                    whole face of the 
                        Indiana
                     earth, whether along the country roads, in the cleared fields or in
                    the woods, was filled with water like a sponge, and the most careful of school
                    children seldom failed to reach school or home with feet soaking wet. Fifty
                    years ago it was not the fashion for boys to wear boots. For that matter there
                    were few men in the country places that wore them, while boot or bootee for girl
                    or woman was not even to be thought of. Riding astride or making a speech would
                    have been no more shocking, and so boots were seldom or never seen in the
                    schoolroom, but it was the custom of both boys and girls, on occasion, to draw
                    over the ankle and the top of the shoe a sock or stocking leg, or a piece of
                    cloth, which, being well tied to shoe and ankle, kept the dry snow out of the
                    shoe fairly well.
                I have known boys and girls to attend school in the fall long after the hard
                    frosts came, and even after the ice began to form, with their feet encased in
                    old socks or stockings so badly worn at the toe and heel as to be fit for no
                    other purpose than wearing in this manner, and so common an occurrence was it
                    that no one thought it worthy of special attention. Sanford Cox, in his "Wabash
                    Valley," draws a graphic word picture of the town of 
                        Lafayette
                    , as it appeared to him about 1825, in which he tells us that he had
                    "often" seen the 
                        Lafayette
                     juveniles skating upon the ice, "some with skates, some with shoes,
                    and some barefooted." It would seem that if the boys of 
                        Lafayette
                     were of such hardy nature we might expect to find in some other
                    places satisfactory evidence that the winter weather did not deter the
                    barefooted from attending school. I have, accordingly, carefully looked through
                    such records as have fallen in my way, and candor compels me to say that I have
                    found only one other instance. This is related by the author of the "History of 
                        Monroe County
                    ," who says:
                "It was then the custom to go to school, winter and summer, barefoot. That seems
                    unreasonable, but it was done, and how?  The
                    barefooted child, to begin with, had gone thus so long that his feet were
                    hardened and calloused to resist the cold by several extra layers of epidermis.
                    He could stand a degree of cold which would apparently chill him to the bone,
                    and could walk for some time in the snow and frost without suffering more than
                    he could bear with reasonable fortitude. When he had to do extra duty in the
                    snow and cold, however, he would take a small piece of board, say a foot wide
                    and two feet long, which had been seasoned and partially scorched by the fire,
                    and after heating it till it was on the point of burning, he would start on the
                    run toward the schoolhouse, with the hot board in his hand, and when his feet
                    became too cold to bear any longer, he would place the board upon the ground and
                    stand upon it till the numbness and cold had been partly overcome, when he would
                    again take his ‘stove’ in his hand and make another dash for the schoolhouse. *
                    * * Sometimes a flat, light piece of rock was substituted for the board and was
                    much better, as it retained heat longer."
                While we may feel assured that there never was a time when it was the fashion in
                    Indiana generally for the children to attend school in the winter-time barefoot,
                    nevertheless I have no doubt that during the territorial and early State periods
                    it so frequently occurred as to occasion little or no remark.
                I find but one reference as to the buckskin clothing worn by school children
                    during the earlier periods mentioned. In the early schools of 
                        Vanderburg
                        county
                     the local historian tells us that the boys wore buckskin breeches
                    and the girls wore buckskin aprons. Though this is the only statement found by
                    me, yet there was a time when buckskin clothing must have been as common with
                    school children, especially boys, as it was with their fathers.
                
                    From the News of February 10.
                
                One of the greatest drawbacks to the efficiency of the pioneer schools was the
                    want of competent teachers. This want was felt from the very beginning and
                    continued on down for many years. "The pioneer teachers were generally
                    adventurers from the East, or from 
                        England
                    , 
                        Scotland
                     or 
                        Ireland
                    , who sought temporary employment during winter, while waiting for
                    an opening for business," said Barnabas C. Hobbs on one occasion.  The Southern States furnished their quota, and
                    western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     was not behind any section of equal area in the number sent forth
                    to become educators of the youth of the land. Of course there were many of the
                    old-time teachers who were admirably equipped for their work, and who did it so
                    well that they found a place in the lasting remembrance of their pupils; but
                    while this is true, it is, on the other hand, equally true that the admirably
                    equipped teachers were the exception. So loud were the complaints of the
                    inefficiency of the school teachers throughout the State that they reached the
                    ears of the Governor. In his annual message to the legislature, in 1833,
                    Governor Noble thus calls attention to the subject:
                "The want of competent teachers to instruct in the township schools is a cause of
                    complaint in many sections of the State, and it is to be regretted that in
                    employing transient persons from other States, containing but little
                    qualification or moral character, the profession is not in that repute it should
                    be. Teachers permanently interested in the institutions of the country,
                    possessing a knowledge of the manners and customs of our extended population,
                    and mingling with it, would be more calculated to render essential service and
                    be better received than those who come in search of employment." And he proposes
                    as a remedy for the evil the establishment of a seminary for the special
                    training of our native teachers, or the incorporation of the manual labor system
                    with the preparatory department of the Indiana College at 
                        Bloomington
                    .
                In the beginning of our State's history and for many years thereafter the people
                    held in slight esteem the vocation of the pedagogue. Not because he was a
                    pedagogue, but because he did not labor with his hands. Lawyers and ministers
                    and even doctors who did not show their mettle now and then by acts of manual
                    labor were very apt to receive less favor at the hands of the people than
                    otherwise. An 
                        Indiana
                     Secretary of State once, while in office, kept a jack for breeding
                    purposes, and he caused the announcement to be made through the newspapers that
                    he gave to the business his personal attention. It was considered a very proper
                    thing for a Secretary of State to do. This one was an invincible politician
                    before the people. It is related of an early 
                        Posey county
                     teacher, one Henry W. Hunt, that when  he first applied for a school the people looked
                    upon him as a "lazy, trifling, good-for-nothing fellow who wanted to make his
                    living without work." What was true in 
                        Posey
                     in pedagogue Hunt's case was generally true in every pedagogue's
                    case throughout the State.
                Teachers quite often in those days went on the hunt for their schools. They were
                    a kind of tramp—homeless fellows, who went from place to place hunting for a
                    job. When the prospect seemed good the candidate would write an "article of
                    agreement," wherein he would propose to teach a quarter's school at so much per
                    scholar. With that in hand he tramped the neighborhood over, soliciting
                    subscribers, and, if a stranger, usually meeting with more scorn than good-will.
                    He was too often esteemed a good-for-nothing who was too lazy to work. "The
                    teachers were, as a rule," says the historian of 
                        Miami county
                    , "illiterate and incompetent, and selected not because of any
                    special qualifications, but because they had no other business." The only
                    requirements were that the teachers should be able to teach reading, writing and
                    ciphering. The teacher who could cipher all the sums in Pike's arithmetic, up to
                    and including the rule of three, was considered a mathematician of no mean
                    ability.
                The wages paid the ordinary teacher were not usually such as to give respect to
                    the profession. One of the curious chapters of the times is the low wages paid
                    for all manner of intellectual labor. The Governor received only $1000 per year,
                    and a judge of the Circuit Court but $700. Teachers were by no means an
                    exception to the rule. Rev. Baynard R. Hall, the first principal of the State
                    Seminary, at 
                        Bloomington
                    , came all the way from 
                        Philadelphia
                     to accept of the place at a salary of $250 a year, and John M.
                    Harney, who subsequently made such a figure as editor of the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Democrat, walked all the way from 
                        Oxford
                    , 
                        O.
                    , to apply for the chair of mathematics at a like salary, also, of
                    $250 per annum. Jesse Titus, an early schoomaster in 
                        Johnson
                        county
                    , taught a school during the winter of 1826-'07 at $1 per scholar,
                    which yielded him $6 per month, out of which he paid his board of $1 per month.
                    The first school taught on the present site of 
                        Moore's
                        Hill
                     was by Sanford Rhodes, in 1820, at seventy-five cents per quarter
                    for each pupil, which was paid mostly in trade. In 1830 John Martin taught in 
                        Cass county
                     at  $8 per month. Seventy-five
                    cents per quarter was a price quite commonly met with as late as 1825, or even
                    later, but the price varied. In some sections $1 per scholar seems to have been
                    the ruling price, in others $1.50, while in a very few instances $2 was paid. In
                    many cases, probably a majority, the teacher was obliged to take part of his pay
                    in produce. I find wheat, corn, bacon, venison hams, dried pumpkin, flour,
                    buckwheat flour, labor, whisky, leather, coon skins and other articles mentioned
                    as things given in exchange for teaching. "At the expiration of the
                    three-months' term," says one writer, "the teacher would collect the tuition in
                    wheat, corn, pork or furs, and take a wagon-load to the nearest market and
                    exchange it for such articles as he needed. Very little tuition was paid in
                    cash." One schoolmaster of the time contracted to receive his entire pay in
                    corn, which, when delivered, he sent in a flat-boat to the 
                        New
                        Orleans
                     market Another, an 
                        Orange county
                     schoolmaster, of a somewhat later period, contracted to teach a
                    three-months' term for $36.50, to be paid as follows: $25 in State scrip, $2 in 
                        Illinois
                     money, and $9.50 in currency." This was as late as 1842, and there
                    were seventy school children in his district.
                A large per cent. of the unmarried teachers "boarded around," and thus took part
                    of their pay in board. The custom in such cases was for the teachers to
                    ascertain by computation the time he was entitled to board from each scholar,
                    and usually he selected his own time for quartering himself upon the family. In
                    most instances, it is believed, the teacher's presence in the family was very
                    acceptable. The late A. B. Hunter, of 
                        Franklin
                    , once taught a school under an agreement to board around, but one
                    of his best patrons was so delighted with his society that he invited him to
                    make his house his home during the term, which invitation the young man
                    gratefully accepted. It was not the practice for the married teachers to board
                    around. If not permanent residents of the neighborhood, they either found
                    quarters in the "master's house," or in an abandoned cabin of the neighborhood.
                    Quite common was it to find a "schoolmaster's house," which had been erected by
                    the district, hard by the schoolhouse, for the use of the married masters.
                The school terms were usually called "quarters." There were two kinds of quarters
                    known in some localities— the "long quarter" 
                    and the "short quarter." The long quarter consisted of thirteen weeks, and the
                    short quarter of twelve weeks.
                Notwithstanding the people were inclined to look upon the pioneer schoolmasters
                    as a lazy class, yet they were looked up to perhaps as much if not more, than in
                    these days. I have already said that the presence of the schoolmaster as a
                    boarder in the family of his patron was welcome, for he was generally a man of
                    some reading, and his conversation was eagerly listened to by all. Books and
                    newspapers were scarce in those days, and so conversation was esteemed more than
                    it is now.
                A few years ago I had occasion to look into the standing and qualifications of
                    the early teachers of my own county, and on looking over my notes I find this
                    statement: "All sorts of teachers were employed in 
                        Johnson
                        county
                    . There was the ‘one-eyed teacher,’ the ‘one-legged teacher,’ the
                    ‘lame teacher,’ the ‘teacher who had fits,’ the ‘teacher who had been educated
                    for the ministry but, owing to his habits of hard drink, had turned pedagogue,’
                    and ‘the teacher who got drunk on Saturday and whipped the entire school on
                    Monday.’ " A paragraph something like this might be truthfully written of every
                    county south of the National road, and doubtless of every one north of it, but
                    as to that I speak with less certainty, for want of knowledge. The lesson the
                    paragraph points to is that whenever a man was rendered unfit for making his
                    living any other way, he took to teaching. Mr. Hobbs, I believe, states that one
                    of his first teachers was an ex-liquor dealer who, having grown too fat to
                    successfully conduct that business any longer, turned schoolmaster. It is
                    related of the first teacher of the first school in Clay township, in 
                        Morgan county
                    , that he was afflicted with phthisic to such a degree that he was
                    unable to perform manual labor; but he was a fairly good teacher, save when he
                    felt an attack of his malady coming on. "That was the signal for an
                    indiscriminate whipping." The first schoolmaster of 
                        Vanderburg
                        county
                     lived the life of a hermit, and is described as a "rude, eccentric
                    individual, who lived alone and gained a subsistence by hunting, trapping and
                    trading." John Malone, a 
                        Johnson
                        county
                     schoolmaster, was given to tippling to such excess that he could
                    not restrain himself from drinking ardent spirits during school hours. He
                    carried his bottle with him to school but he 
                    seems to have had regard enough for the proprieties not to take it into the
                    schoolhouse, but hid it out. Once a certain Jacob Brown and a playmate stole the
                    bottle and drank till they came to grief. The master was, of course, properly
                    indignant, and "for setting such an example," the record quaintly says, "the
                    boys were soundly whipped." Wesley Hopkins, a 
                        Warrick
                        county
                     teacher, carried his whisky to school in a jug. Owen Davis, a 
                        Spencer
                        county
                     teacher, took to the fiddle. He taught what was known as a "loud
                    school," and while his scholars roared at the top of their voices the gentle
                    pedagogue drew forth his trusty fiddle and played "Old Zip Coon," "The Devil's
                    Dream," and other inspiring profane airs with all the might and main that was in
                    him. Thomas Ayres, a Revolutionary veteran, who taught in 
                        Switzerland
                        county
                    , regularly took his afternoon nap during school hours, "while his
                    pupils," says the historian, "were supposed to be preparing their lessons, but
                    in reality were amusing themselves by catching flies and tossing them into his
                    open mouth." One of 
                        Orange county
                    's early schoolmasters was an old sailor who had wandered out to the
                    Indiana woods. Under his encouragement his pupils, it is said, "spent a large
                    part of their time roasting potatoes." About the same time William Grimes, a
                    teacher still further southwest, "employed his time between recitations by
                    cracking hickorynuts on one of the puncheon benches with a bench leg."
                [To be continued.]
            
            
            
                RIVER NAVIGATION IN INDIANA.
                THE story of transportation in Indiana properly begins with a consideration of
                    the rivers, for though their uses in this connection was but a passing phase
                    (barring the Ohio), and
                    "navigation in Indiana" now sounds oddly to us, they were at one time of
                    considerable importance in our export trade. They certainly occupied a large
                    space in the hopes of the pioneer fathers. Prospectors who traversed and
                    reported upon the country before the coming of the settler dwelt upon the
                    question of the streams and their navigability as a very important factor in the
                    coming occupancy; and for some years after the occupancy the strenuous
                    insistence in considering "navigable" streams that would seem hopelessly useless
                    for such purpose ofttimes approached the ludicrous. For example, 
                        Indianapolis
                     for nearly two decades after its founding, would have White river a highway of commerce
                    in spite of nature and the inability of craft to get over ripples, sandbars and
                    drifts. As early as 1820 it was officially declared "navigable;" in 1825
                    Alexander Ralston, the surveyor, was appointed to make a thorough inspection of
                    the river and to report in detail at the next session of the legislature. The
                    sanguine hopes that were nourished at the young capital are evidenced by
                    existing records. An editorial in the 
                            Indiana
                         Journal of March 26, 1831, says:
                "For three or four years past efforts have been made by Noah Noble to induce
                    steamboats to ascend the river, and * * * very liberal offers have been made by
                    that gentleman to the first steamboat captain who would ascend the river as far
                    as this place. * * * As early as February, 1827, he offered the Kanawha Salt
                    Company $150 as an inducement to send a load of salt, agreeing to sell the salt
                    without charge."
                In 1830 Noble offered a Capt. Stephen Butler $200 to come to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and $100 in addition if 
                        Noblesville
                     and 
                        Anderson
                     were reached, though what efforts were made to earn these bonuses
                    is not known. From time to time the newspapers made  mention of boats which, according to rumor, got
                    "almost" to the capital, and eventually one made for itself a historic
                    reputation by performing the much-desired feat. This one was the "General
                    Hanna," a craft which Robert Hanna, a well-known character in early politics,
                    had purchased for the purpose of bringing stones up the river for the old
                    National road bridge. The Hanna, which in addition to its own loading, towed up
                    a heavily-laden keel-boat, arrived April 11, 1831, and, according to a
                    contemporary chronicle, "every man, woman and child who could possibly leave
                    home availed themselves of this opportunity of gratifying a laudable curiosity
                    to see a steamboat. * * * On Monday evening and during the most of the
                    succeeding day the river bank was filled with delighted spectators." Captain
                    Blythe and the artillery company marched down and fired salutes. The leading
                    citizens and the boat's crew peppered each other with elegant, formal
                    compliments, and the former, in approved parliamentary style, "Resolved, That
                    the arrival at 
                        Indianapolis
                     of the steamboat General Hanna, from 
                        Cincinnati
                    , should be viewed by the citizens of the White river country and of our
                    State at large, as a proud triumph, and as a fair and unanswerable demonstration
                    of the fact that our beautiful river is susceptible of safe navigation."
                A public banquet in honor of the occasion was arranged, and the visiting
                    navigators invited to attend, but they were in haste to get out of the woods
                    while the water might permit, and so declined with regrets. Legend has it that
                    the boat ran aground on an island a short distance down river, and lay there
                    ignominiously for six weeks, and that was the last of the "proud triumph" and
                        White river "navigation."
                Many are familiar, through Maurice Thompson's "Stories of 
                        Indiana
                    ," with the Wabash
                        river craft that attempted to establish a "head of navigation"
                    above 
                        Lafayette
                    , and, after heroic strugglings, was finally hauled ingloriously up
                    to 
                        Logansport
                     by a hawser and a dozen yoke of oxen.* In a
                    book descriptive of the West, written by Jacob Ferris, as late as 1856, is the
                    following account: "The river navigation of 
                        Indiana
                     is rendered difficult by frequent shallows. The boats are of light
                    draft, flat-bottomed, with paddles placed across the 
                        
                            *For original account see Cox's "Recollections of
                            the Wabash Valley."
                    
                     stern. * * * It has been said of the 
                        Indiana
                     boats that, in making headway down stream, they contrive to keep up
                    with the current. They draw about as much water as a sap trough. When they get
                    stuck in the sand all hands will jump out and push them off. It is related of an
                    exasperated Hoosier, who had refused to pay his fare till there should be some
                    prospect of getting somewhere or other, that, being ordered ashore from the
                    middle of the river, he stepped into the water, seized the craft by the bows,
                    and gave it a shove down stream, stern foremost. When it worked back to the
                    point he held it there, puffing and fluttering, the captain ‘cussing,’ till a
                    compromise was effected, and the Hoosier hired for the rest of the trip to help
                    the engineer."
                But despite these and many similar absurdities, the 
                        Indiana
                     streams were a factor, and an important one, in our earlier
                    commerce. The number of rivers and creeks that have been declared "public
                    highways" by our legislators is a matter for surprise. An examination of the
                    statutes through the twenties and thirties discloses from thirty to forty.
                    According to Timothy Flint, who wrote in 1833, the navigable waters of the State
                    had been rated at 2500 miles, and this estimate he thought moderate. These
                    streams ranged in size from the Wabash to insignificant hill drains that run down the short
                    water-shed into the Ohio, some of which, at the present day at least, would scarce float
                    a plank. Such streams were, however, supposed to have sufficient volume during
                    high water to float flatboats, and the purpose of the legislation was to
                    interdict impeding of the waterway by dams or otherwise, and the clearing of the
                    channel was under State law. To this end many of these streams were divided into
                    districts, as were the roads, and "worked"—i. e., cleared of drifts and other
                    obstructions by the male residents living adjacent to either shore. This service
                    varied with various localities and ranged from one to three days' labor a year
                    from citizens residing one, two and three miles back. These workmen were exempt
                    from road duty. By an act of January 4, 1828, $1,000 was appropriated for the
                    improvement of the two forks of White
                        river, and they were to be "worked" by the various counties
                    through which they ran. Boards of justices were to appoint supervisors and
                    establish districts, and citizens within two miles on either side were to work
                    the rivers three days in each year.
                
                It is probable that most of those declared navigable bore on their swollen tides
                    at one time or another boats laden with the produce of the country, and an
                    examination of the various histories reveals that very many of our counties thus
                    found, though irregularly, an important outlet for their exports.
                The "Emigrant's and Traveler's Guide" a book published in 1832, gives some
                    information on this point. "Hundreds of flat-boats," we are told, "annually
                    descended the Wabash
                    and White rivers. * * * The
                    trade of this river (the Wabash) is becoming immense. In 1831, during the period which
                    elapsed from the 5th of March to the 16th of April, fifty-four steamboats
                    arrived and departed at and from 
                        Vincennes
                     alone. It is also estimated that at least 1000 flatboats entered
                    the Ohio from the
                        Wabash in the same
                    time. * * * In February, March and April of this year there were sixty arrivals
                    of steamboats at 
                        Lafayette
                    ."
                This showing of a thousand flatboats in less than a month and a half, is no mean
                    one, and shows conclusively the value of the rivers in the early stages of our
                    commerce. Not less interesting is the glimpse which this writer gives us of the
                    character of the commerce. One-tenth of the flatboats, he tells us, was
                    estimated to be "loaded with pork at the rate of 300 barrels to the boat."
                    Another tenth is said to have been loaded with lard, cattle, horses, oats,
                    cornmeal, etc., and the remainder, making by far the largest export, with corn
                    in the ear. Sometimes we hear of more curious cargoes. The inhabitants of 
                        Posey county
                     seem to have had a reputation among the facetious river men for
                    "hoop-poles and punkins," and in the history of 
                        Jackson
                        county
                     we learn that the first flatboat cargo from 
                        Medora
                    , in that county, was hickory-nuts, walnuts and venison hams. The
                    value of produce and stock sent annually to market from the valley of the
                        Wabash by
                    flatboats was estimated by Ferris at nearly $1,000,000.
                While there were other kinds of boats, the flatboat was by far the best craft for
                    the 
                        Indiana
                     rivers, by reason of its light draft, its carrying capacity and its
                    cheapness of construction. The huge tulip poplars that abounded in our forests,
                    easily worked with the ax, afforded slabs long and broad enough for the sides,
                    and the simple attaching of planks to these for the  bottom, ends and deck could be readily accomplished
                    by the pioneer with such tools as were at his command. When finished, it was a
                    mere float, or lighter, flat-bottomed and strong enough to stand any amount of
                    ordinary thumping as it drifted down with the current.
                An individual, or often several individuals, would knock together one of these,
                    load it with the surplus produce of a neighborhood, and ride down with the
                    freshets. The port was usually far-away 
                        New
                        Orleans
                    , from whence the boat was not supposed to return. After the
                    disposal of its cargo it was sold for whatever it might bring, and the merchant
                    returned by steamboat, usually to the Ohio river port nearest his home, thence across country.
                    Sometimes, however, boats came up our rivers laden with imports. These seem
                    mostly to have been keel-boats, a long, narrow craft with a keel, much lighter
                    than the flatboat. The ascent, a most arduous and snail-like task, was effected
                    by poling, where the current permitted, and by "cor-delling" where it was swift,
                    the latter process being a towing by hand, one end of the hawser being secured
                    to a tree, to make sure of the distance gained. Two or three of these keel boats
                    are recorded as finding their way to 
                        Indianapolis
                     soon after its founding, the principal part of the cargoes being
                    salt and whisky —two very precious articles.
                The late Mr. Alexander Conduitt, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who as a young man was a "sailor" on White river, has described to the writer the
                    flatboats common on that stream. They were about fifteen feet wide; those built
                    at and below 
                        Spencer
                     were eighty feet long, and those for the river above 
                        Spencer
                     were sixty feet long. A sixty-foot boat would carry 500 dressed
                    hogs.
                THE WABASH
                    RIVER.
                Such part as was played in Indiana's commercial development by the steamboat was
                    confined virtually to the Wabash and Ohio rivers. This at one time was of considerable importance to the
                    northern and western portions of the State. 
                        Lafayette
                     was practically the head of navigation on the Wabash; and, prior to the
                    construction to that point, in 1843, of the Wabash and Erie Canal, it depended
                    much upon the river for an outlet. The "Traveler's Guide," quoted above, speaks
                    of sixty arrivals of  steam craft there
                    within three months in the year 1832, and one writer tells us of sixteen
                    steamboats lying at the wharves there at one time.
                With the opening of the Wabash Canal, however, the trade of
                    the valley was diverted eastward and the importance of the river waned. Neither
                    then nor thereafter, however, even to the present day, has the agitation for its
                    improvement ceased. In a report on the subject in the Documentary Journal of
                    1837 mention is made of the loss annually suffered on the river. During the
                    preceding season, it is stated that not less than fourteen flat-boats with
                    valuable cargoes had been wrecked by snags, and because of the damages the high
                    rate of insurance and of pilotage was a heavy tax. The impediment known as the
                    "Grand Rapids," above the mouth of White
                        river was, in particular, a menace to navigation. For the
                    improvement of these rapids 
                        Indiana
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     have legislated conjointly, and of appropriations, both State and
                    Federal, many thousands of dollars have been expended upon the river. Since 1872
                    more than $800,000 has been appropriated and more than $200,000 expended upon
                    the locks at 
                        Mt.
                        Carmel
                    . In 1890 an examination of the channel between 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Terre
                        Haute
                    , with a view to reestablishing navigation, was made under direction
                    of the 
                        United States
                     Engineer's office, but it was found that part of the stream was
                    "not worthy of improvement, as at low water navigation was impracticable;" at
                    high water the numerous low bridges were "complete obstructions to any
                    navigation," and the probable benefits to commerce were "too slight to be worthy
                    of consideration."
                NOTE.—Appended is a list (probably only partial), compiled
                    from our statutes, of streams that have, at one time or another, been declared
                    navigable by the Indiana legislature:
                
                    White river from its mouth to
                    the main forks; the west fork to the Delaware towns (
                        Muncie
                    ); the east fork to the main fork above the mouth of Flatrock.
                Muscatatuck, from the
                    mouth to main forks; the north fork to 
                        Vernon
                    , and the south fork to the mouth of Graham's fork.
                Big Blue river from mouth to 
                        Fredericksburg
                    .
                Whitewater, from
                    State line, and the west fork to northern boundary of 
                        Fayette
                        county
                    .
                Loughery creek, from mouth to 
                        Hartford
                    .
                
                Anderson creek, from mouth to forks.
                Poison creek, from
                    mouth to Cummin's mills.
                Oil creek, from mouth to
                    Aaron Cunningham's mills.
                Raccoon creek,
                    from the Wabash to the
                    mills of Brooks, Robbins and Rose.
                Big creek, from mouth to Black's mill.
                
                    Patoka river, from mouth to
                    Moseley's mill.
                Indian creek, from mouth to Dickerson's mill.
                Indian Kentucky
                    creek, from mouth to Brooks's mill.
                Little Pigeon
                    creek to Barker's mill.
                Big Pigeon creek to
                    Fairchild's mill.
                Big Sand Creek, from the Driftwood to forks.
                Sugar creek, from Blue river to Hough's mill.
                Busseron creek to
                    Eaton's mills.
                Lick creek to Lost river, and Lost river to Sherley's mill.
                
                    Mississinewa river to
                    Lewallen's mill, in 
                        Randolph
                        county
                    .
                All of Blue river in 
                        Shelby county
                    . Sugar Creek, in 
                        Shelby county
                    . Brushy Fork, of the Muscatatuck. Eel
                    river to Gray's mill in 
                        Putnam county
                    . Fourteen Mile
                        creek, Black, Beanblossom, Twin, Clifty, Salt, Log
                    Lick, Plum
                    and Big Indian
                    creeks.
                Anyone erecting dams or otherwise impeding navigation on these streams was
                    subject to a fine from $10 to $500.
                The locations of the mills named being in large part lost to memory, the actual
                    mileage declared navigable is now past determining.
                G.S.C.
            
            
                THE FIRST STEAMBOAT ON WHITE
                    RIVER.
                FROM THE JOURNAL OF AN OLD PILOT.
                AN old pilot's journal written in the seventies by John Scott Elder, an Ohio river pilot who was born
                    in 
                        Lexington
                    , 
                        Ky.
                    , in 1802, gives the following interesting account of the first
                    steamboat trip made on the waters of White river:
                
                    
                        
                            
                                "In 1829, I continued on the steamboat ‘Victory,’ running up and
                                    down the Ohio
                                    river until near the last of August; then the
                                    ‘Victory’ laid up to repair. I then went aboard of the steamboat
                                    ‘Traveler,’ William Sanders, master, bound for 
                                        New Orleans
                                    .  Yellow fever
                                    was raging in 
                                        New Orleans
                                     at this time. After our safe return from 
                                        New Orleans
                                    , I asked Captain Sanders for my discharge: he would
                                    not hear of it, and went up to 
                                        Louisville
                                    —our boat was lying at Shippingsport. When he
                                    returned he said: ‘I have got a full load to go up White river to 
                                        Spencer
                                    .’ White
                                        river empties into the Wabash river
                                    near 
                                        Mt. Carmel
                                    , through on the opposite side of the river; 
                                        Spencer
                                     is in 
                                        Indiana
                                    . So we loaded the boat with salt, and went on our
                                    way. Henry Christopher was still my pardner, and neither of us
                                    was ever up White
                                    river, but we went on our way up the Wabash to 
                                        Mt. Carmel
                                    , then up the White river. White river is a
                                    small stream and very crooked; we went over mill-dams, though
                                    the water was high, and we finally arrived at 
                                        Spencer
                                    . The steamboat ‘Traveler’ was the first steamboat
                                    that ever turned a wheel on White river; William Sanders, master.
                                "The water commenced falling so we had to hurry out our load of
                                    salt, and go out of the river as soon as possible. Captain
                                    Sanders said we would run down the river about thirty miles,
                                    land some passengers, and stay there all night, as we had told
                                    him we could not run in the night. It was Christopher's first
                                    watch. We went on down White river and landed the passengers, some time
                                    in the fore part of the night. The Captain then said, ‘We will
                                    go on to-night. Christopher said nothing,’ and away we went. I
                                    told Christopher if he could stand it, I could. So my pardner
                                    stood watch until twelve o'clock and then called me up. When I
                                    took hold of the wheel I do not think I was ever in such a bad
                                    fix in my life, for a man that is a pilot can generally see the
                                    river all the way ahead of him. However, I told my pardner that
                                    I would go it blind, if there was ever any one time in my life
                                    when I longed for the light of day that was the time. So we
                                    continued on down and I heard the chickens crow, then I knew it
                                    was not long until daylight. The first thing I knew we went into
                                    the Wabash
                                    river, then I was all right. The Wabash,
                                    after White
                                    river, appeared to be as wide as the Mississippi and we went on our way rejoicing to 
                                        Louisville
                                    , without accident."
                            
                        
                    
                
                EMMA CARLETON.
            
            
            
                GRAVES OF REVOLUTIONARY SOLDIERS.
                IN Vol. I, Nos. 2 and 3, of this magazine, were published lists of Revolutionary
                    graves located in 
                        Putnam
                     and 
                        Floyd
                     counties. The following list is the fullest, up to date, of these
                    graves as located in various parts of the State by members and chapters of the
                    D. A. R. It is taken from the First Annual Report of the D. A. R. State
                    Historian, Miss Eliza G. Browning:
                
                        ALLEN
                                COUNTY
                    . The Mary Penrose Wayne Chapter reports a large number of
                    Revolutionary soldiers buried at 
                        Harmersford
                    , but is unable to give the names.
                
                        FLOYD
                                COUNTY
                    —6. Located by Piankeshaw Chapter. Joseph Bell, Joshua Fowler,
                    Richard Lord Jones and Benjamin Buckman, all in the 
                        New
                        Albany
                     cemetery; Jacob Garrison, Galena; Gabriel Poindexter, Floyd Knobs.
                
                        CRAWFORD COUNTY
                    —1. Piankeshaw Chapter. Jeremiah Wright, Fredona cemetery.
                
                        CLARK
                                COUNTY
                    —20. Twelve located by Piankeshaw Chapter.
                
                        HARRISON COUNTY
                    —18. Piankeshaw Chapter. Charles Dyer, Bethlehem cemetery, near 
                        Crandall
                    ; Joshua Bennett, Samuel Raugh and Patrick Hunter, Presbyterian
                    cemetery at Rebobeth; Hinson Johnson, Blunk's cemetery, Webster township; Peter
                    Deatrich, George Krone and Charles George, family burying ground one mile south
                    of 
                        Elizabeth
                    . David Trout, Luther's Chapel; John Williams, Goldsbury farm, three
                    miles south of Fredricksburg; John Smith, near 
                        Corydon
                    ; — Cooper, near Hancock's Chapel; Henry Funk and Daniel Funk, west
                    bank of Big Indian
                    Creek, near 
                        New
                        Amsterdam
                    ; Abraham Harmar and Joseph Harmar, Thompson's burial lot; John
                    Long, High-fill farm, near 
                        Corydon
                    ; Philip P. Stine, near same place.
                
                        HUNTINGTON COUNTY
                    —1. Huntington Chapter. Elijah Mitchell, Good cemetery, Warren
                    township.
                
                        JENNINGS COUNTY
                    —1. Mrs. W. A. Guthrie, of John Paul Chapter. Darby McGannon, family
                    burial ground on McGannon farm.
                
                        MARION COUNTY
                    —8. Caroline Scott Harrison Chapter. John Morrow, Crown Hill
                    cemetery; Isaac Wilson, family yard, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ;  — Oliver, — Taffe, John George
                    and Edmund C. Johnson (see 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         News, August 10, 1878). Robert Dickerson (see 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Journal, April 2, 1829; Thomas Hanna, Greenlawn cemetery.
                
                        JEFFERSON COUNTY
                    —19. John Paul Chapter, 
                        Madison
                    . Col. John Paul, George Benefield, Jacob Bishop, George Kenneth
                    Blake, Arnold Custer, Alexander Chambers, William Campbell, John Dickerson,
                    James Jackson, David Jones, Thomas Jameson, — McMullen, William Rogers, Thomas
                    Rowland, Thomas Ramsey, Jesse Spann, Jesse Vawter, Remembrance Williams and
                    William Hall. Biographies of each of these compiled.
                
                        MONROE COUNTY
                    —5. Bloomington Chapter. William Burch and Henry Barber, near
                    Stamford; Isaac Van Buskirk, near 
                        Gosport
                    ; John Campbell and Andrew Ferguson (latter colored), 
                        Bloomington
                     cemetery.
                
                        MONTGOMERY COUNTY
                    —12. Dorothy Q. Chapter. Jacob Miller, Sebastian Stonebraker, Samuel
                    Gregory, William Mason, James McArther, Robert Gott, Alexander Foster, Presly
                    Sims, John Hardee, John McNulty, Samuel Newell and John Snoddy.
                
                        NOBLE
                                COUNTY
                    —2. (Names not sent in).
                
                        ORANGE COUNTY
                    —2. Information furnished by Bloomington Chapter. John Riley, Paoli
                    cemetery; William Moore, Livonia cemetery. William Moore's grave was located by
                    the Piankeshaw Chapter.
                
                        OWEN
                                COUNTY
                    —7. Spencer Chapter. James Bryant and Peter Witham, 
                        Spencer
                     cemetery; Joshua Kelley, two miles north of 
                        Spencer
                    ; Ninian Steele, four and a half miles northwest of 
                        Gosport
                    ; Andrew Evans, Asher farm, near 
                        Gosport
                    ; John Snoddy, four miles north of 
                        Gosport
                    ; Thomas Ashbrook, Secrest cemetery near Ramona. John McCullough,
                    James Carpenter, —— Little, —Nye and—Witham are names of men buried in 
                        Owen county
                     who are said to have been Revolutionary soldiers, but this is
                    tradition and no proof is had of their services.
                
                        PORTER COUNTY
                    —2. Valparaiso Chapter. Henry Bolton and —Jones.
                
                        RUSH
                                COUNTY
                    —2. Mrs. W. A. Guthrie, of John Paul Chapter, and Miss Eliza G.
                    Browning, of Caroline Scott Harrison 
                    Chapter. John Riley and George Brown, family burial lot, Richmond township.
                
                        SCOTT
                                COUNTY
                    —1. Piankeshaw Chapter. Amosa Mitchell, Friendship graveyard, below 
                        New
                        Frankfort
                    .
                
                        TIPPECANOE COUNTY
                    —5. Gen. de La Fayette Chapter. Jacob Lane, Nathin White, George
                    Rank, George Stoner and Jacob Kaiser, Greenbush cemetery.
                
                        WASHINGTON COUNTY
                    —Piankeshaw Chapter. Jacob Doan, near 
                        Hardinsburg
                    , Total, 117.*
                
                Of further D. A. R. work in 
                        Indiana
                     the report says:
                "Lafayette, Spencer and Crawfordsville Chapters have erected monuments to the
                    Revolutionary dead in their counties; to the efforts of Piankeshaw and Ann
                    Rogers Clark chapters we owe the tall shaft that marks the scene of the Pigeon
                    Roost massacre; the John Paul Chapter, of 
                        Madison
                    , has rescued the old cemetery in their city, and converted it into
                    a beautiful park; the 
                        Lafayette
                     Chapter gave to the battleship Indiana a handsome silver loving
                    cup. Of the efforts of the chapters to stimulate patriotism and the study of
                    history, here are some of the results: 
                        Evansville
                     has given medal and books as prizes for essays on historical
                    subjects; for the same purpose 
                        Lafayette
                     has given books, a steel engraving of Gen. de Lafayette, and a
                    flag; 
                        Crawfordsville
                     has awarded medals; 
                        Huntington
                     has given a money prize, pictures and a flag, and books to their
                    city library; John Paul Chapter has erected a flagstaff and presented to each of
                    the eight high schools in their county a framed copy of the Declaration of
                    Independence; 
                        Rensselaer
                     has given a picture to a school; Paul Revere Chapter has given a
                    framed copy of the Declaration of Independence to the 
                        Muncie
                     Public Library; the the Caroline Scott Harrison Chapter has bent
                    its energies toward raising large sums for Continental Hall; the General Arthur
                    St. Clair Chapter, remembering that our motto is ‘home and country,’ has
                    contributed a substantial sum of money to the new Methodist hospital in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in addition to their work for Continental Hall. In this hospital
                    will be a room named the ‘General Arthur St. Clair’ room, and in this way they
                    have erected a monument to the hero whose name the chapter bears."
                
                    
                        *To the above list we would add the name of William
                        Crawford, buried in the Bryan graveyard, near 
                            Centerville
                        . For sketch of Crawford see Young's History of 
                            Wayne
                            County
                        , p. 176.
                
            
            
            
                EDITORIAL AND MISCELLANEOUS.
                A DELAYED ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
                An acknowledgment of favors received should have appeared in the last number of
                    this magazine, but was unintentionally omitted. The magazine last year barely
                    paid expenses, and, much as the publisher desired to keep it up, its continuance
                    seemed impracticable. That it has continued to exist is largely due to the
                    friendly aid of several well-wishers who added to their personal subscriptions a
                    number of extra ones, thus swelling the subscription list very materially and
                    putting in the hands of the publisher a fund sufficient, in addition to the
                    regular list, to defray the publishing expenses for the current year. This was
                    done without any soliciting on the part of the publisher, and that men of such
                    character should have thought the publication worthy of their voluntary support
                    and endorsement is the most gratifying result, so far, of our effort to promote
                    an interest along this line. We here make mention of the gentlemen to whom our
                    thanks are due:
                Messrs. A. W. Butler, W. E. Henry, J. Frank Hanly, Charles J. Buchanan, Geo. W.
                    Benton, Daniel Wait Howe, John H. Holliday, C. B. Coleman and T. E. Hibben, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Mrs. Milton Shirk, 
                        Peru
                    ; Mr. Fremont Goodwine, 
                        Williamsport
                    ; Mr. J. A. Woodburn and the Monroe County Historical Society, 
                        Bloomington
                    ; Mr. Cyrus W. Hodgin, 
                        Richmond
                    ; Mr. F. B. Shutts, 
                        Aurora
                    ; Mr. Robt. S. Taylor, 
                        Fort
                        Wayne
                    , and Mr. Geo. B. Lockwood, 
                        Winona
                        Lake
                    .
                To Messrs. W. E. Henry and A. W. Butler we are especially indebted.
                THE 
                        RICHMOND
                     CENTENNIAL.
                The plans for the 
                        Richmond
                     Centennial anniversary, to be observed next September, still go
                    enthusiastically on. The program has been arranged, and committees for the many
                    branches of work organized, while the local press from time to time  publishes historical matter calculated to arouse
                    the public interest in the movement, and the town, seemingly, is being searched
                    for relics, historical documents and all kinds of tributary material. An
                    important feature of the occasion will be a "Centennial History" of the city,
                    under the charge of a History Committee, in which the various phases of
                    development will be carefully dealt with by those most competent for the tasks.
                    With the effort that is being made to get at all existing material, it is
                    probable that the book will contain much of real historic value hitherto unused.
                LOCAL HISTORICAL SOCIETIES IN 
                        INDIANA
                    .
                By request Prof. Cyrus W. Hodgin, of 
                        Richmond
                    , supplies us with the following information:
                "The local historical societies in this State that are at present active, so far
                    as we have been able to learn, are located in the following counties: 
                        Elkhart
                    , 
                        Grant
                    , 
                        Henry
                    , 
                        Kosciusko
                    , 
                        Monroe
                    , 
                        St.
                        Joseph
                    , 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Wayne
                    . The facts of the history of the 
                        Elkhart
                    , 
                        Grant
                     and 
                        Kosciusko
                     societies are wanting. The 
                        Wayne county
                     society was organized first in 1882 within the Old Settlers'
                    organization. It was reorganized in 1901 and incorporated in 1902. It has rooms
                    in the court-house at 
                        Richmond
                    , assigned to it by the county commissioners, who recently
                    appropriated $250 to furnish suitable cases for its collection. Its collection
                    of books, files of papers, volumes of magazines and various relics, numbers
                    between six and seven hundred. This does not include the papers that have been
                    read before it. Its meetings are held quarterly, that in November being called
                    the annual meeting. It is supported by membership fees.
                "The 
                        Henry county
                     society was organized in 1887 and incorporated in 1901. It is
                    housed in a valuable property purchased for the purpose by the county
                    commissioners at a cost of $5000. It is supported, however, by membership fees
                    and special contributions. It has a valuable collection.
                "The society in 
                        St. Joseph
                        county
                     is known as the Northern Indiana Historical Society. It aims to
                    work the field of the entire State. It has for its quarters the entire second
                    floor of the public library building in 
                        South
                        Bend
                    . Its collection is said to contain the largest number of historical
                    publications and the  most interesting
                    historical relics in the State. The annual meeting occurs in February.
                "The 
                        Wabash
                     society was organized and incorporated in 1901. It has been given
                    the use, by the county commissioners, of Memorial Building in the city of 
                        Wabash
                    , where it has begun a collection of historical materials. This
                    society does not collect membership fees, but each member must ‘pay for one
                    share of stock in the association.’ Among its officers are a historian and an
                    archæologist. The annual meeting is held in 
                        Wabash
                     in October. Special meetings may be held at such times and places
                    as the board of directors may designate.
                "The 
                        Monroe County
                     society was organized in 1905. It is maintained by a membership
                    fee. The meetings are held monthly in the lecture-room of the Kirkwood Avenue
                    Christain Church in 
                        Bloomington
                    . The topics in its programs indicate that much good investigation
                    is being made in the history and biography of the county."
                PRESERVATION OF THE FRIGATE "CONSTITUTION."
                Since our last issue the Northern Indiana Historical Society has put into
                    circulation the following circular which we are glad to reprint. All local
                    societies should indorse the memorial:
                
                    
                        
                            
                                "To the Senators and Representatives from 
                                            Indiana
                                        :
                                
                                "The Northern Indiana Historical Society at a special meeting of
                                    its executive committee held this day, unanimously adopted the
                                    following memorial:
                                "The members of the Northern Indiana Historical Society hereby
                                    strongly indorse the movement for the preservation of the U. S.
                                    Frigate ‘Constitution,’ now lying at the Navy Yard at 
                                        Charlestown
                                    , 
                                        Massachusetts
                                    ,—a war vessel around which cluster many memories of
                                    the early days of the Republic,—the vessel which, by its
                                    destruction of the British warship Guerriere, gave to the war of
                                    1812 its first victory, and encouraged the nation to renewed and
                                    ultimately successful efforts, after the early and discouraging
                                    events of the war.
                                "The society urges that the members of Congress from Indiana
                                    favor the appropriation added by the Senate to the naval
                                    appropriation bill for the repair or rebuilding of the famous
                                    frigate, that it may be an object lesson, showing what in 1812
                                    was  considered a
                                    well-equipped vessel of war, thus illustrating the marvelous
                                    progress which steam and steel have wrought in naval
                                    architecture in a single century. The frigate ‘Constitution,’ so
                                    long as she is afloat, will serve to recall a naval victory
                                    which, small in itself when won, was the foundation of the
                                    maritime power of the nation.
                                "And, said society earnestly requests and urgently petitions the
                                    members of Congress from Indiana to use every honorable effort
                                    and influence within their control to secure so liberal an
                                    appropriation as may be necessary to fittingly restore and
                                    permanently preserve the frigate ‘Constitution’ for the purpose
                                    above set forth, and as an inspiration of patriotism to the
                                    youth of our country.
                                TIMOTHY E. HOWARD, President.
                                
                                "GEORGE A. BAKER, Secretary."
                            
                        
                    
                
                LOCAL HISTORY CONTRIBUTIONS.
                
                    The Moravian Mission on White river.—In the 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         News for March 17, 1906, Mr. J. P. Dunn has an interesting
                    contribution in which he discusses the martyrdom of Christian Indians among the
                    Delawares of White river,
                    under the instigation of the nefarious "Prophet," and the Moravian Mission that
                    was established among these people early in the nineteenth century. Hitherto the
                    chief, if not the sole authorities, touching upon these matters have been John
                    B. Dillon, the 
                        Indiana
                     historian, and John Heckwelder, the Moravian missionary. To these
                    have recently been added the original reports of the mission, which were
                    discovered in the archives of the Moravian church, and which it is the intention
                    of the 
                        Indiana
                     Historical Society to publish. That they will add new information
                    to our rather meager knowledge of the Indians of 
                        Indiana
                     is to be expected.
                The site of the old Moravian mission, like that of Ouiatenon, is somewhat
                    uncertain, though tradition places it on White river about two miles east of 
                        Anderson
                    . A witchcraft craze, inaugurated by the Prophet, who, with his
                    brother Tecumseh, was then located among the Delawares, so discouraged the
                    missionaries that their establishment was discontinued in 1806. In subsequent
                    history so little mention is made of it that its existence is practically
                    forgotten.
                In this connection, it may be said that such authorities as we  have upon the subject seem to be quite uncertain as
                    to the distribution of the Indians along White river. Chief Anderson's town and the Munsee town, at or
                    near where 
                        Anderson
                     and 
                        Muncie
                     now stand, are frequently spoken of in local chronicles, but to
                    most of the others there is very little allusion. According to a 
                        United States
                     survey map made in 1821 there was a Little Munsee Town, near
                    Anderson's village, and a Buck Town a little farther up the river. In a former
                    number of this magazine (see Vol. I, No. 4, p. 176) were published some
                    communications reminiscent of an old Indian torture stake that stood for a
                    number of years after the whites came into the country. This was on the river,
                    about three miles southeast of 
                        Muncie
                    . From one of these letters, written by Samuel Cecil, who for many
                    years owned the land, it is pretty conclusive that an Indian town of some
                    permanence stood at that place, and that a stake for torturing prisoners was a
                    notable feature of it. Mr. Cecil says that the villege was known as Old Munsey,
                    or Old Town Hill, and that it antedated the Munsey that stood just across the
                    river from the present city of 
                        Muncie
                    . In 
                        Henry county
                     they have a tradition of a town that stood not far from the site of 
                        New
                        Castle
                    , and which remained there for some time after the coming of the
                    whites. Judge Martin L. Bundy who, we believe, has a personal recollection of
                    them, affirms that they were Senecas. The Indians who were murdered near
                    Pendleton, in 1824, are also said to have been Senecas. The Senecas belonged to
                    the Iroquois confederacy, and this dual tradition would seem to indicate that
                    Iroquois were to be found among the Algonquins of this section. Strawtown, in 
                        Hamilton
                        county
                    , is also said to have been originally "a flourishing Indian town,"
                    and there are vague reports of others on the river at the north and south
                    boundary lines of 
                        Marion county
                    .
                
                    The Union Literary Society.—We are in receipt of an
                    interesting article with this caption, written by Philander Outland, of 
                        Richmond
                    , and published in the Sun-Telegram for November
                    22, 1902. The Union Literary Society, or Institute, more properly speaking, was
                    a school in 
                        Randolph
                        county
                    , established by the Friends in 1845, and was, perhaps, the first
                    institution of the kind in the State to throw open its doors alike to white and
                    colored  pupils. It was commenced in a
                    two-story hewed-log building, "located in a dense forest," and in this primitive
                    seat of learning many a youth of the under race was guided toward a broader
                    life. An account of the school, written by Professor Ebenezer Tucker, its
                    principal, may be found in the History of 
                        Randolph
                        county
                    , but Mr. Outland, a colored man who was educated there, deals
                    freshly and more at length with its special service to the colored race. Negro
                    pupils attended the school not only from the territory immediately surrounding,
                    but from 
                        Richmond
                    , 
                        Logansport
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , this State, and from 
                        Dayton
                    , 
                        Piqua
                    , 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and 
                        Shelby
                     and 
                        Mercer
                        counties
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , while some came from 
                        Mississippi
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    .
                
                    Baber's History of 
                            Green
                            County
                        .—Mr. Henry Baker, of 
                        Worthington
                    , sends us a copy of the little paper-bound History of 
                        Greene County
                    , the authorship of which is accredited to "Uncle Jack Baber," and
                    which was published at 
                        Worthington
                     in 1875. Some of the best local history we have is to be found in
                    pamphlets or small, unpretentious volumes published by the authors, and Baber's
                    is one of this class. It is evidently written by a reminiscent who is thoroughly
                    familiar with the community in which he has long lived, and the text, which
                    rambles along in a gossipy style, contains many minor incidents and anecdotes
                    that bring the people of 
                        Greene county
                     close to the reader. The book is now hard to find.
            
            
                THE SNOWFALL IN OCTOBER, 1869.
                
                    From Indiana Farmer, November 11, 1905.
                
                
                    I SEE in the last issue of the Farmer, C.
                    H., of 
                        Ohio
                    , wants to know the exact date of the deep snow that fell in October
                    of 1868 or 1869. As I have been keeping a record only since 1872, I can rely
                    only on my memory for the information wanted, which was in 1869, the day of the
                    week or month not remembered. If I knew the day of the month I could tell the
                    day of the week. I well recollect a snow in 1843, when I was just turned into my
                    twelfth year, that for severity has perhaps never  been equalled. The day of the month or week I fail
                    to recollect, but from an old man of my acquaintance and several years my
                    senior, I learned it was the 4th. I have a vivid recollection that will remain
                    with me as to snow while the trees were in full leaf. From my diary of 1880 I
                    see that two inches of snow fell on the forenoon of October 19th (Tuesday), and
                    that at noon the sun came out and the snow went like a white frost. I regret
                    that I didn't keep a diary of my school days, just as every young man should. I
                    find it a great source of satisfaction now in my old age for reference.
                HENRY BAKER.
                
                
                        Worthington
                    .
            
        
        
            
        
    
