
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 29, Issue 1, pages 1-80. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:29+issue:1+year:1933&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The High School Teacher and Indiana History∗
            
            By JAMES ALBERT WOODBURN
            
            There are two parts to my brief homily, the past and the present. First, I wish to pay a
          tribute to the high school teacher. In my youth, I spent some years in that field of
          educational work. From that experience, but more from observation since, I have learned
          what an important part the high school teacher plays in the education of our youth. He
          comes in contact with our boys and girls in the formative and most important years of
          their lives.
            From long experience in university teaching, I learned how much the high school puts its
          impress on boys and girls who enter college. Their success in college depends very largely
          on their high school training. In fact, next to the influence of their homes, personal
          contact with good teachers in their high school days is the determining factor in their
          success in life.
            The high school teacher is not only a teacher, a guide, and a friend to his pupils, but
          he is expected to be, and usually is, a leader in his community. Civic life calls upon him
          for service. The public welfare, in various directions, requires from him some attention
          and energy. The church of his choice expects some help among young and old. Social life
          has its requirements and opportunities for service as well as its pleasures. He is
          expected to join one of the "luncheon clubs" to
          "boost" and to help build up and serve the local interests.
            The high school teacher thus finds plenty of opportunity for the exercise of his public
          spirit. While molding young lives in school he is also helping to mold public opinion in
          his community. He is loaded to the guards with his daily work, his school activities, and
          his outside calls. Should we do any 
                  
                     ∗ This paper was read at the breakfast for high
              school teachers, held in 
                        Indianapolis
                      on December 10, 1932, during the Annual Indiana History
            Conference.
               
                thing or say anything to add to his manifold duties? If
          he is a teacher of history, can he interest his pupils in local history? If there is a
          county historical society can he give it a helping hand? Can he make an investigation and
          a contribution to the society's program? Is there a local museum? Can he help
          to add to its collection? And if there is no museum, can he help to start one? Are there
          notable historic places in his county? Can the high school teacher help to have suitable
          markers erected to make these places known to the tourist, or to his unknowing fellow
          citizens? Are there celebrations of past events, or of men of note in the life of the
          state to be undertaken? Who better than the high-school teacher can lead in such events?
          Such are some of the opportunities and calls that come to the teacher of history in our
          high schools. He has heard these calls and it makes him restless and dissatisfied if he
          feels compelled to deny or neglect them.
            This leads me to speak of Indiana history merely to recall our opportunity and our
          obligation. We are a part of Indiana. We are the result of her past. We owe her loyalty
          and devotion. As Indiana teachers of history, we are bound to care for what Indiana has
          been, to share her trials and troubles, her struggles, her achievements, her victories,
          her failures, and her defeats. We ought to know, and lead our students to know, about the
          pioneer life of the state, about the men and women who founded the commonwealth and led in
          the development of her institutions. We should know the constitution of the state, its
          merits and defects, and the processes of government under it, state and local.
            We have a history of one hundred sixteen years of statehood. It is a worthy history and
          we cannot afford to neglect it. We have an Indiana Historical Society one hundred two
          years of age. This Society for more than a century has had the services of many of our
          leading citizens—of some of the best men and women Indiana has known. Out of
          the more than three millions of citizens, this Society has about a thousand members. There
          ought to be more, but that is a goodly number, and these members have had, and are now
          having, a great influence in the life of the state. The Society has a series of valuable
          historical publications contributed by its members from time to time during the century of
          its existence. It offers to high school teachers cooperation and association with  an honorable body. It holds an annual Conference of those
          interested in studying and preserving the history of the state, the proceedings of which
          are printed and distributed. The Society has an organ of expression, its Indiana Magazine of History, published quarterly, in which writers on Indiana
          history find a reading public and a permanent record for their contributions on the past
          of the state. This Magazine comes free to every member of the Indiana
          Historical Society who has paid his annual dues of two dollars. It ought to be in every
          public library in the state. It ought to be in every high school library and on the desk
          of every high-school teacher of history. This means that every high school teacher of
          history ought to join the Society and pay his two dollars in support of these valuable
          activities. Is that too much to expect from these over-burdened teachers? I hope it does
          not seem like an ungracious suggestion in these days of salary cuts and diminishing
          returns, while the teachers are facing extra demands and difficulties.
            Let us look for a moment to the present. Those who care the most for the past are likely
          to care the most for the present. No intelligent citizen can harbor any doubt about one
          vital fact—that Indiana is now passing through an important crisis in her
          educational history. Upon how we come through will depend the fate or welfare of the next
          generation. If there are those who are willing to ruin the rising generation, there is one
          certain way. Let them mislead the people into refusing adequate funds for public
          education. Two generations ago the people of Indiana determined that tax-supported
          education was vital and necessary to the public welfare. The people must not abandon that
          cause today.
            This brings us face to face with the problem of taxation, Every generation faces that
          problem, but we are facing it today in a very unusual way. The whole hue and cry seems to
          be that the cost of government and all public expenses must be reduced. The tax-savers
          seem to think that when they have reduced expenses sufficiently, when public agencies have
          stopped spending and have saved enough, then the tax problem will be solved. From all we
          hear it would seem that such were the alpha and omega
          of the problem.
            It is a false premise. It is not ever half the truth. Doubtless there have been excesses,
          extravagance, and waste in the  public service. These
          are always to be condemned and avoided, perhaps now more than ever. I, for one, am
          heartily willing to curtail expenses, public and private, in times like these, There can
          be proper savings, but there is no sense in cutting ourselves off from things we deserve
          and ought to have. That is not the beginning of thrift, or frugality, or good government.
          We are still a rich state, worth five billions or more. We can afford to pay for the
          things we ought to have. Let us reduce the costs of government where they ought to be
          reduced, but let us not be so foolish as to think that reducing the expense of government
          will solve the tax problem. We must face that problem at the other end.
            What we need is a different distribution of the taxes. The state should get the money it
          needs for its legitimate ends, But it is a high time to realize—it should have
          been realized a generation ago—that we cannot get the money from such an
          antiquated and iniquitous system of taxation as we now have. The general property tax, as
          the chief source of revenue, has been preposterous. If we continue to rely on it for our
          revenue we shall be unable to meet the requirements of our times. Here is a citizen who
          does not own any real estate, but he has an excellent income. He makes no contribution
          whatever to the taxes for the support of schools and government. Here, on the other hand,
          is a farmer who own real estate, but he has no income at all, or not enough to meet the
          expenses of raising his crops, yet he sees his farm sold for taxes that a contribution
          shall be made for schools and government.
            No one ventures to defend such a system of taxation. So long as it lasts, we may expect
          to hear the cry for relief. Are we surprised to find a rebellion against such a system?
          This tax-rebellion is one of the most justifiable in human history. It should have
          occurred a generation ago. But it is folly to suppose that we can solve the tax problem by
          merely reducing the cost of public services. We may cripple our schools, or waste money by
          local administration of our roads, or deprive ourselves of many things we ought to have,
          yet, however much we may save, if our money-raising goes on in the same old way, we shall
          hardly have done more than to cut off the nose to spite the face. Such a blind policy will
          do great harm and very little good.
            
            Those who are urging reduction of expenses might better direct their attention to
          devising a better system of taxes. The old system is exploded. Its evils and its
          injustices have been set forth time and time again. The income tax, which is about as fair
          as any, since all taxes have to be paid out of income; the retention of the gasoline tax,
          and the addition of limited sales taxes on luxuries; the taxation of sites of high rental
          values—these and other forms like license taxes may raise the needed revenue
          and at the same time make possible large tax exemptions on farms and homes.
            Lately we have sought to secure an income tax amendment to our state constitution. I
          voted for it, though I knew full well that there was not one chance in a thousand of its
          adoption. I have thought for twenty years, and still think, that our best hope is in a
          constitutional convention. That body would be sovereign, within the limits of the Federal
          Constitution, and it could lift all restrictions from the Legislature in devising a system
          of taxation. The Legislature could then classifly property for taxes and provide for just
          taxation constitutionally. If such a convention had been held in this state twenty years
          ago, as some of us urged, the people of Indiana could have been saved millions of dollars,
          and the tax burden could long since have been distributed to sources where it more
          properly belongs.
            Over the door of our old Seminary Room at the Johns Hopkins University were printed these
          words from the historian Freeman: "History is Past Politics; Politics is Present
          History." This maxim has a weighty meaning, though it is not intended as a
          definition. It does not indicate the whole significance of historical study. Sir John
          Seeley's dictum is like unto it: "Politics without History has no
          root; History without Politics has no fruit."
            These sayings would lead us to think that the chief interest in the events of the past
          lies in the light they throw upon the problems of the present. It is a weighty judgment.
          That is the feeling of many teachers and writers of history. It was the feeling of the
          great Thomas Arnold, teacher and historian, who said that he cared to know the past only
          as it served as a guide to the present. How can we meet the issues of the present unless
          we know what the past has to teach us? That is, unless we are ready to learn from the lamp
          of experience.  Judging by Indiana's past in
          her struggle for education, for free schools, for high schools, for research and higher
          learning, we are not ready to retreat and give up the standards of education which our
          people have made such sacrifices to attain.
            We are making history now. We are facing an issue whose significance will be better
          understood by those who come after us or by those who know what has gone before. It is not
          so important that we study the methodology and machinery of teaching as that we come to
          know the living present and how it came out of the past; to know the subjects that are
          alive today and the subjects that make the past live gain.
            This brings us back to our original theme, the teaching of history, the teaching of our
          own history, of the place where we live, of Indiana history, stressing the relations to
          our nation and the world. A great task is laid out for you as you meet our youth in our
          high schools. We are told from various sources and from time to time that the teacher of
          history is expected to develop a taste for historical reading; to lead his pupils to
          distinguish between truth and error in the occurrences of the past; to develop patriotism
          and to make good citizens (to do which it is necessary to know what patriotism is); to
          awaken historical curiosity; to arouse a desire to promote the public welfare; to develop
          a judicial attitude of fairness. There might be added a long list of other worthy
          objectives, which might sound as if they were a set of grievances imposed by some tyranny
          like that of George III upon the courses and teaching of history.
            We may strive for all these objectives and succeed in attaining some of them. It is
          certain that if we become more and more interested in our subject and keep striving to
          know more and more about it, we shall be able to make it an instrument for good in the
          life of the school and the community. We may depend upon it, as Doctor Coleman well says,
          that if "the history teachers of Indiana become really interested in history and
          associate actively with others of their craft, the oncoming generation will become
          historically minded." That is an end worthy of our effort. Then the children of
          Indiana will wish to know more about their Indiana home, its past as well as its present.
          Let us, therefore, join with others in promoting a study and knowledge of Indiana
        history.
         
         
         
            Father Badin Comes To Notre Dame∗
            
            By Rev. THOMAS T. MCAVOY,
          C.S.C.
            Successful pioneers are always strong characters. To be successful they must be brave,
          and fearless, and they must be men who can envision the future that they are making
          possible. They are men of action more concerned with the work to be performed than with
          the niceties of its performance. Such a pioneer was Father Theodore Stephen Badin the
          pioneer priest of northern Indiana. Father Badin has been described1
          as being small in stature, rather squatty, lacking that huge frame one usually expects in
          the sturdy pioneer. But what he lacked in size he made up in zeal even in old age when
          gray hair and furrowed cheeks marked his appearance. The lines of his face were sharp and
          a bit severe, indicative of the real self discipline and strong determination that
          accomplished all that he did. His sharp, penetrating glance bespoke the strong spirit and
          boundless courage that took this small body day after day over river and prairie and
          through wilderness to the homes of the savage, and the camp of the emigrant. In addition
          his letters show that he had a penetrating sense of humor that found many laughable
          things, but which frequently caused discomfiture to those of his neighbors who dared to go
          beyond their limitations. Such was the sixty-four year old priest in charge of the revived 
                  St. Joseph
                Mission which lay between the towns of 
                  South Bend
               , Indiana, and Niles, 
                  Michigan
               , as he signed the documents that gave him possession of the land now called
          Notre Dame, on November 10th, 1832, one hundred years ago.2
            
            Father Badin's pastorate, old Saint Joseph Mission, had been like most of the
          old missions the victim of war and greed, and only a few Indians who lived along the 
                  St. Joseph
                River remained as witnesses of what had gone before. But now that the
          troubles of war had passed, and the new and permanent advance of white civilization had
          reached once more the outposts of the northwest, it was fitting that these old missions
          should be revived. 
                  Detroit
               , Cahokia, Kaskaskia, Green Bay and Saint Joseph, scenes of the labors of the
          French Jesuits of 
                  ∗ This paper was read at 
                        Indianapolis
                      on Dec. 9, 1982, at one of the sessions of the Annual Indiana History
              Conference.
                  
                     1 Description in letter in a private collection in the Notre
              Dame University Archives.
                  
                     2 Photostats of letters patent, and certificate of purchase in
              the Notre Dame University Archives.
               
                the seventeenth century became once more the centers of
          renewed missionary activities. For his part in restoring the old 
                  St. Joseph
                Mission, as well as by his own personal background and
          position, Father Badin was easily the most important missionary figure in the valley of
          the Saint Joseph, and it is peculiarly fitting that his final resting place should be at
          Notre Dame in the very heart of the region for which he labored.3
            
            It should be remembered that when Father Badin came to Notre Dame in 1832 as pastor of 
                  St. Joseph
                Mission he was aided by a tradition of nearly a hundred and fifty years.
          Father Hennepin, companion of the brave Sieur le La Salle, had visited these regions in
          1679 and found 
                  Miami
                Indians living upon the prairies around the 
                  St. Joseph
               -Kankakee Portage.4 His fellow countrymen, those early
          French Jesuits, had founded the first Mission of 
                  St. Joseph
                about the year 1685.5 A few years later, Father Claude
          Allouez, S.J., the Francis Xavier of the American Indians, according to tradition, came to
          found permanently the mission post. Father Allouez had become acquainted with the Miamis
          in the Green Bay region in 1670,6 and, after a rather brief period of
          labor among the 
                  Illinois
                about Kaskaskia, had returned to his beloved Miamis to work with them until
          his death. Tradition based upon Indian stories and conjecture from known facts have placed
          the time of his death on the night of August 27, 1689 and the scene of his burial just
          south of the present city of Niles, 
                  Michigan
               .7 Father Allouez's work was continued by
          Father Claude Aveneau and Father Jean Mermet, who were succeeded by Father Jean Baptiste
            Chardon.8 There were times when the Mission received only
          visitations from the traveling Jesuits, but these visits with the periods of permanent
          residence by the missionaries give to the mission a connected story of continued
          activities from these early years until the time of the expulsion of the Jesuit Fathers
          from the missions in 1763. Among the names of the missionaries contained in the baptismal
          register of the Mission now preserved in Quebec we find those of Michael Guignas, Jean
          Saint Pe, Peter DuJuanay, 
                  
                     3 His body was transferred to the present log cabin chapel in
              1904.
                  
                     4
                     Father Louis Hennepin: A New Discovery of a Large Country, ed. by R.
              G. Thwaites (
                        Chicago
                      1908), I, 141-146.
                  
                     5 George Pare, "The St Joseph Mission," in
              Miss. Valley Hist. Rev. XVII, 27-30.
                  
                     6
                     Jesuit Relations, ed. by R. G. Thwaites (
                        Cleveland
                     , 1899), LIV, 226-237.
                  
                     7 Geo. Pare, supra.
                  
                  
                     8 George Pare and Milo M. Quaife, "The 
                        St. Joseph
                      Baptismal Register," in Miss. Valley Hist.
              Rev., XIII, 201-239.
               
                Jean Baptist de Lamorine and finally Peter Potier, all
          noted workers. How far these missionaries traveled through the northern part of the
          present state of Indiana may never be known but we may easily suppose that besides
          maintaining the permanent chapel at 
                  St. Joseph
                they went to all the camps of the Miamis and their confederates that were
          within a few weeks travel.
            But the conditions so favorable to missionary activity that had aided these early Jesuits
          soon changed. First the French government persecuted the Jesuits. Then the French who were
          generally favorable to Catholic missionaries, were driven from 
                  Canada
               . On the other hand the young American Church moving out from 
                  Baltimore
                was unable to supply enough priests to administer such wide territories, and
          as a result missionary work about the 
                  St. Joseph
                Mission was necessarily suspended. The last entries in the old baptismal
          register are those of Father Pierre Gibault,9 the patriot priest of 
                  Vincennes
                and Kaskaskia. Apparently these records were made only on the occasion of
          visits to the neglected mission.
            The labors of the Jesuits among the Indians of the 
                  St. Joseph
                Valley had not indeed been in vain. The Indians of that area acquired the
          reputation of being the most civilized of all the tribes of the Middle West, and they did
          not forget the ministrations of the "black robes." Time after time the
          Indians sent requests to Quebec to their old bishop to send them priests. But that bishop
          had none to send; furthermore the territory of the northwest had been taken from his
          jurisdiction. The Indians then turned to the new American branch of the Catholic church
          with the same result. For many years the Indians went to Quebec or to 
                  Vincennes
                to receive the sacraments.10 To their children they
          handed down the prayers that they had learned from the early Jesuits, as well as
          traditions of the ministrations of the priests. A new diocese had been established in the
          west at Bardstown, 
                  Kentucky
               , in 1808, but the bishop, Benedict Joseph Flaget, had no priest to spare for
          the Indians in the north. Finally when Father Gabriel Richard came to 
                  Detroit
                the Indians began to plead with him to administer to them, or to get for them
          a resident priest. To Father Richard they recited the prayers and the ten command 
                  
                     9 George Pare, supra.
                  
                  
                     10 An old manuscript in the Notre Dame University
            Archives.
               
                ments which they had learned from their parents, as
          proof that they had kept the faith, although in their lifetime they had never seen a
          priest at 
                  St. Joseph
               's.11
            
            When Father Edward Dominic Fenwick became the first bishop of 
                  Cincinnati
               
               12 and administrator of the 
                  Michigan
                Territory, Father Richard13 wrote to him of these Indians
          urging him to send a priest to them. But neither did Bishop Fenwick have priests to spare.
          Finally in 1830, Father Frederick Rese, later Bishop of 
                  Detroit
               , came to the Mission of 
                  St. Joseph
               .14 A few days after his arrival, he baptized thirty of
          the Indians,15 including Chief Pokagon and his wife Elizabeth, on July
          24-25, 1830. Within a few weeks Father Theodore Stephen Badin, lately returned from
          Europe, who had been visiting with his brother Father Vincent Badin at 
                  Detroit
               , started for the 
                  St. Joseph
                Mission accompanied by Angelique Campaux as interpreter. Once more at the
          prayer of the Indians, the mission of 
                  St. Joseph
                was ministering to its faithful.
            Father Badin's path was not an easy one. The old mission site had passed into
          other hands and the mission supplied by the federal government, Carey Mission, was in the
          possession of Baptist missionaries. Father Badin consequently bought for his first station
          fifty arpents of land near16 the Indiana-
                  Michigan
                line and built there a chapel. He was an experienced missionary and began at
          once to see that the other accompaniments of successful missionary
          work—education and industry—were given to the Indians. He wrote to
          Bishop Fenwick in June, 1832: "We made Pokagon sow wheat and reap last year for
          the first time in his life. The present harvest will still be better. He and his neighbors
          have made rails and considerably enlarged their cornfield this spring."17 For a school, Father Badin made a trip to 
                  Kentucky
                in 183118 to secure for his mission some sisters from one
          of the communities in the Catholic settlements there. Finally he secured two Sisters of
          Charity from Nazareth, 
                  Kentucky
               , Sister Magdalen (Miss Anne 
                  Jackson
               ) 
                  
                     11
                     Annales & la Propagation de la Foi, IV, 546 et
                sev.
                  
                  
                     12 Papal Bull nominating Fenwick, in Notre Dame University
              Archives.
                  
                     13 Letter of Stephen T. Badin to Bishop Fenwick, May 9, 1829,
              in Notre Dame University Archives.
                  
                     14 Letter of Gabriel Richard to Bishop Fenwick, Aug. 17, 1830,
              in Notre Dame University Archives.
                  
                     15 Later Baptismal register of the mission, in Notre Dame
              University Archives.
                  
                     16
                     Annales de la Prepagation de la Foi, VI, 160.
                  
                     17
                     Catholic Telegraph (
                        Cincinnati
                     ), I, 311, July 14, 1832.
                  
                     18 Badin to Fenwick, April 11, 1831, in Notre Dame University
              Archives.
               
                and Sister Lucina (Miss Mary Whitaker), who came to
          the 
                  St. Joseph
                Mission in 1833.19 From the state Legislature he obtained
          incorporation of his proposed orphan asylum.
            In all this it is worthy of note that Father Badin represented not only a renewal of the
          old mission, but a change in the spirit of the work. Unlike the old missionaries, he drew
          his authority from the new American hierarchy. He himself was the first priest ordained in
          the 
                  United States
               , the ceremony having taken place on May 25, 1793,20 at 
                  Baltimore
               , Bishop John 
                  Carroll
               , officiating. His first work had been among those transplanted 
                  Maryland
                Catholics in and around Bardstown, 
                  Kentucky
               . In all his labors he was interested then and later, not in founding
          temporary missions, but in preparing for the permanent American church. He endeavored to
          make suitable American citizens out of the Indians, and consequently sought and obtained
          the cooperation of the national government in his labors. Just as the early priests at
          Saint Joseph had cared for all the territory in the vicinity of the 
                  St. Joseph
                Valley, so also Father Badin traveled about northern Indiana and southern 
                  Michigan
               , going west as far as 
                  Chicago
               
               21 to care for his scattered people. He always kept in
          mind the permanent church that he foresaw, In a letter of 1834 to Bishop Purcell, second
          bishop of 
                  Cincinnati
               , he tells how he had purchased sites for churches in 
                  South Bend
               , 
                  Fort Wayne
               , 
                  Huntington, Logansport, Wabash
                and 
                  Peru
               .22 For 
                  Illinois
                he made a petition to the government for a section of land upon which to
          establish a school,23 and, when he purchased the beautiful site upon
          which the University of Notre Dame now stands, he had plans for a future educational
            establishment.24
            
            A tradition handed down to the Fathers of Holy Cross says that there were bands of
          Indians living on the shores of the present lakes of Notre Dame before Father Badin came
          to live there. Nevertheless at the time that Father Badin made his purchase in 1832
          nothing had been done to clear the forests or to cultivate the land. Shortly after buying
          the land Father Badin built for himself a home on the southern shore of St. 
                  
                     19 Badin to Fenwick, Feb. 16, 1834, in Notre Dame University
              Archives.
                  
                     20 Badin to Archbishop Purcell, April 22, 1851, in Notre Dame
              University Archives.
                  
                     21 Later Baptismal register of the mission, in Notre Dame
              University Archives.
                  
                     22 Badin to Purcell, Sept. 22. 1834, in Notre Dame University
              Archives.
                  
                     23 Badin to Fenwick, 1832, in Notre Dame University Archives.
                  
                     24 Manuscript in the hand of Father Alexis Granger, C.S.C., in
              Notre Dame University Archives.
               
               Mary's lake, near the site of the present
          "log cabin." His cabin chapel, according to a description of one of the
          early brothers at Notre Dame, was twenty feet wide and thirty-five feet long and had at
          the back a small room about eight feet square where Father Badin and his successors
            lived.25 About this cabin only a small portion of land was cleared.
          Here it was that Father Badin endeavored to start his orphanage, the first of its kind in
          that region. He named his institution Sainte Marie des Lacs. In 1833 he
          brought with him to the mission Father Louis Deseille, a young Flemish priest of the
          diocese of 
                  Cincinnati
               , who was to be his successor. Father Badin continued, in the best traditions
          of 
                  St. Joseph
               , his ministrations in the surrounding territory, and never ceased to have at
          heart the welfare of his establishment near 
                  South Bend
               . The title of the land, however, he transferred to Bishop Bruté,
          the newly appointed Bishop of 
                  Vincennes
               , in 1835,26 on condition that an orphan asylum or some
          other charitable or religious institution be established upon the grounds.
            Father DeSeille did not immediately reside at Father Badin's establishment,
          but continued to live at Pokagon village, the place at which Father Badin had first
          resided when he came to the Mission. But that was only the center of his activity. From
          there he traveled throughout the many villages of southern 
                  Michigan
                and northern Indiana. By reason of the division of jurisdiction when the Sees
          of 
                  Detroit
                and 
                  Vincennes
                were erected, he came under the jurisdiction of Bishop Frederick Rese, the
          first bishop of 
                  Detroit
               . In 1836 we find him writing to that bishop thanking him for his approbation
          for an appointment to the new church at Bertrand, 
                  Michigan
               , but indicating his intention to follow his Indians into Indiana.27 This intention he finally carried out on May 11, 1837.28 Father DeSeille was not destined to live long in his new home for he died
          amidst his beloved Indians in the cabin chapel at Ste. Marie des Lacs on
          September 26, 1837, without the company of a fellow priest. When Father Louis Neyron, the
          nearest priest, arrived a few days after the death, the Indians had not buried the corpse.
          They could not bear to 
                  
                     25 Annotated diagram in Notre Dame University Archives.
                  
                     26 Photostat copy of deed in Notre Dame University Archives.
                  
                     27 DeSeille to Rese, Jan. 14, 1836, in Notre Dame University
              Archives.
                  
                     28 Later Baptismal register, in Notre Dame University
              Archives.
               
                part with their beloved Father, and further they could
          not believe that one so holy could decay.29
            
            By the transfer of the 
                  St. Joseph
                Mission to the diocese of 
                  Vincennes
               , and because most of the Indians served from the Mission now lived in
          Indiana, the appointment of a successor to DeSeille fell to the bishop of 
                  Vincennes
               . To this northern Mission, Bishop Bruté sent his most beloved
          priest, the young Benjamin Petit,30 who arrived early in 1838. Father
          Petit, one of the charming characters of Indiana history, attended St. Mary's
          of the Lake, 
                  South Bend
               , Pokagon, Bertrand, 
                  Michigan
                City, and the various Indian villages in southern 
                  Michigan
                and northern Indiana, until the removal of the Indians.
            About this time (1838), the 
                  United States
                government decided to remove these last Indians from their homes in Indiana
          to new reservations in 
                  Kansas
               . Father Petit chose to accompany his beloved Indians on the dreaded journey.
          It has been truthfully said that this story of the removal of these Pottawattomies is
          perhaps the darkest page in the history of the dealing with the Indians by our Government.
          The sufferings of the Indians broke the heart of this young missionary, and he himself
          died shortly after in 
                  St. Louis
                in 1839. This removal of the Indians marks the close of what might be called
          the first period in the history of the new 
                  St. Joseph
                Mission which extended from the pioneer Father Badin to the gentle Father
          Petit. Now the Mission was no longer attended principally by Indians but by whites, and of
          these whites those of French origin were no longer in the majority. The site of the
          Mission had been moved from the old place near Niles to the new mission center of northern
          Indiana and southern 
                  Michigan
               , Ste. Marie des Lacs, the site of the present Notre Dame.
            The missions of the north were not long left vacant and we find, according to the entries
          in the later baptismal register at Notre Dame, that Father S. A. Bernier attended the
          missions in 
                  South Bend, Bertrand, Pokagon,
              Michigan City
               , 
                  Elkhart
               , 
                  Laporte
                and 
                  Tippecanoe
                until 1841. At that time Father Bernier was transferred to the diocese of 
                  New Orleans
                and was no longer seen in Indiana.31 Also in 1841 Father
          Michael 
                  
                     29 Edmund Schmidt papers, in Notre Dame University Archives.
                  
                     30
                     Annales de la Propagation de le Foi, XI, 382 et seq.
                  
                     31 Bernier to Bishop Blanc of 
                        New Orleans
                     , Feb. 18, 1840, in Notre Dame University Archives.
               
                Shawe, the first pastor at 
                  Madison
               , Indiana, visited the Mission of 
                  St. Joseph
               . By this time Bishop Bruté had passed on to his reward and the new
          bishop, Clestine Haillandiere, had taken over the reins of the diocese.
            Father Haillandiere had been sent by Bishop Bruté to Europe in 1839 to get
          additional clergymen for the diocese. Both realized that without help from abroad the
          multiplying missions of the state could not be cared for. Before his return to America,
          Father Haillandiere was informed from Rome that he had been made coadjutor to Bishop
          Bruté. On the death of the Bishop, a few weeks later, he became the second
          Bishop of 
                  Vincennes
               . It was during his visit to 
                  France
                that Bishop Haillandiere secured the good will of the newly organized Society
          of Holy Cross of LeMains, 
                  France
               . As a result, in 1841, Father Edward Sorin32 and seven
          brothers of the new community came to America and proceeded to 
                  Vincennes
               . At first they were stationed at St. Peter's in 
                  Daviess
                county. However, the new community had been invited to found a college and as
          there was already a college in existence at 
                  Vincennes
                the Bishop offered to the young priest, for he was just 28, the land about
          the Mission of Ste. Marie des Lacs on condition that a college be
          started within two years.33 Thus without much ceremony, the final
          chapter in the old 
                  St. Joseph
                Mission began.
            Father Sorin was indeed the successor to the pastors of the old 
                  St. Joseph
                Mission because he took over the station held by the later official pastors
          of that Mission and because he continued the work of caring for all the missions in
          southern 
                  Michigan
                and northern Indiana When Father Sorin and his band of assistants arrived at
          the site of the later Notre Dame on November 26, 1842, little progress in the surroundings
          of the Mission of Father Badin had been made since that pioneer had built the chapel ten
          years previously. Father Sorin set to work, however, to repair the chapel and to take care
          of the neighboring Catholics, Indian and white. Indeed it is worthy of note that seeing
          the neglected condition of the savages, especially in 
                  Michigan
               , and fully cognizant of the work of Fathers DeSeille and Petit Father Sorin
          even 
                  
                     32 Documents in the Provincial Archives of the Congregation of
              Holy Cross at Notre Dame, Indiana.
                  
                     33 David R. Leeper, Some Eurly Local
              Footprints (
                        South Bend
                     , 1898), Second Series, 4.
               
                mentioned to his superior his preference for the life
          of the Indian missionary.34 However such could not be his work as he
          had promised to start a college within two years. Father Sorin sent back to 
                  France
                for additional priests and set to work to build the first college building on
          the shores of the two lakes. Of course, he changed the name of the institution from St.
          Mary's of the Lakes to Notre Dame du Lac, Our Lady of the
          Lake. It is perhaps significant that in the three periods of the history of this Mission
          center we find three names, 
                  St. Joseph
                Mission, St. Mary's of the Lakes and Notre Dame du
            Lac.
            
            The first building was completed in 184335 and the University was
          chartered in January 1844. Soon other priests and brothers came from 
                  France
               . Fathers Granger, Marrivault, Goesse, and Cointet took up the work of
          teaching in the new College and continued the missionary traditions. Notre Dame remained
          the great mission center of the 
                  St. Joseph
                Valley until after the foundation of the diocese of 
                  Fort Wayne
                in 1857.36
            
            It is not the purpose to relate the activities of the College although the work of Notre
          Dame today is of the same kind as that performed by all the missionaries from Allouez to
          Gibault and from Badin to Petit, but to call to mind on this centenary of Notre Dame as a
          mission center that when Fathers Badin and DeSeille, as pastors of old 
                  St. Joseph
               's Mission, transferred their headquarters to St.
          Mary's, Notre Dame became the rightful heir to the age old traditions of that
          mission. After the founding of the College, Notre Dame was truly the mission center of
          northern Indiana and southern 
                  Michigan
                just as its predecessors had been. Father Sorin as President of the new
          College could not concern himself chiefly with missionary work. The principal missionaries
          were Fathers Marrivault, Baroux, Goesse and Cointet. The baptismal registers of nearly all
          the churches on both sides of the Indiana-
                  Michigan
                line bear the signatures of one or more of these gallant priests. But to the
          saintly Father Francis Cointet belongs preeminence in this work. In 1854 when his health
          forced him to relinquish his active duties and he was soon 
                  
                     34
                     Circular Letters of Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. (Notre Dame
              1885), I, 259 et seq.
                  
                  
                     35 Papers of James F. Edwards, in Notre Dame University
              Archives.
                  
                     36 Notes of the Council of Missionaries etc., in Provincial
              Archives of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Notre Dame, Indiana.
               
                taken to his reward, he more than anyone else might be
          called the successor to Father Badin. As he was going down the 
                  Mississippi
                to 
                  New Orleans
                in 1851, in search of the renewed health that was to be denied him, he wrote
          back directions to the missionaries.37 The document is preserved among
          those at Notre Dame. In it after giving detailed instructions about the conduct of mission
          activities he concluded with a summary of the missions cared for from Notre Dame. The
          conclusion reads: 
                  The regular missions are attended as follows: 
                        Mishawaka
                     , the first and last Sunday of every month; 
                        South Bend
                     , occasionally; 
                        Goshen
                     , every third Sunday of every three months; Plymouth, three Sundays in the
              year generally the third or the fourth; 
                        Leesburg
                     ;, twice in the year; Kankakee and 
                        Tippecanoe
                     , occasionally by Father Baroux; Mr. Downey's Salt Cement at
              twelve miles beyond Plymouth, twice in the year, at the same time as Plymouth.
              Bertrand, every Sunday. Niles every last Sunday of the month. 
                        Michigan
                      City, every second Sunday. Laporte, the first Sunday of every other
              month. 
                        Valparaiso
                      and Pleasant Grove occasionally. St. John's the first and
              third Sunday of every month. 
                        Turkey
                      Creek, the fourth Sunday of every month. New Buffalo, the fourth Sunday
              of the months that have five. 
                        Kalamazoo
                     , the third Sunday of every other month. 
                        St. Joseph
                     , the last Sunday of every month. Mendon, the third Sunday of every fourth
              month. Pokagon and Brush Creek as Father Baroux will arrange it. Paw Paw occasionally.
              Coldwater, Pigeon, Sturgis, 
                        Union City
                     , and 
                        Leonidas
                      occasionally, etc. etc.
               
            
            Thus it may be seen that while Notre Dame as a University can claim scarcely a hundred
          years in the field, as a center of Mission activity, it can justly claim that its
          predecessors first carried the gospel to the savages of Indiana and 
                  Illinois
                nearly two hundred and fifty years ago. Father Badin in many ways typifies
          the transition period in the history of the Catholic missions in the west but nowhere does
          this great pioneer fulfill this part in history better than in the transfer one hundred
          years ago of his headquarters from the old 
                  St. Joseph
                Mission, symbol of the past, to Ste. Marie des Lacs, symbol
          of the modern Notre Dame. Perhaps some day evidence may be turned up to show that Allouez
          or even Henne-pin or some of the later missionaries preached or said Mass upon the shores
          of the lakes of the present Notre Dame. But whether they did at that time or not, were
          they to return to their mission fields today, would they not recognize in Notre Dame their
          successor?
            
               
                  37 F. Cointet's Instructions for the Priests of the
            Society of Holy Cross employed as missionaries in the dioceses of 
                     Vincennes
                   and of 
                     Detroit
                  , in Notre Dame University Archives.
            
         
         
         
            
               
                  Salem
                Methodist Church1
            
            By ROSCOE R. LEAK
            
            George Rogers Clark and his men were given about 149,000 acres of land by the 
                  Virginia
                Government in 1786 for their services in the Old Northwest during the
          Revolutionary War. This tract is located just above the Falls of the Ohio
          River on the Indiana side. It was called 
                  Clark
               's 
                  Grant
               , a part of it being later included in 
                  Clark
                County. This 
                  Grant
                of land was naturally the area where the first considerable settlement of
          English speaking people in Indiana was made. With these English speaking people came the
          first Protestant Churches. The pioneer Protestant Church in Indiana was the Baptist, A
          Church of this sect was organized on November 22, 1798, in the limits of the present 
                  Clark
                County near Owens Creek,2 which later became known as
          Silver Creek Church. On May 23, 1829, this church divided over differences in belief and
          the Church of the majority retained the name, Silver Creek. This was the first church of
          the Disciples in Indiana. It is now known as Stony Point Church. On July 1, 1837, the
          minority or Baptist branch organized the 
                  Charlestown
                Baptist Church.3
            
            In 1799 settlers of the Methodist faith began to locate in 
                  Clark
               's 
                  Grant
                near Springville and above 
                  Charlestown
               . Nathan Robertson came from 
                  Kentucky
                that year and settled about three miles north of 
                  Charlestown
               .4 He had a large family and his brother Robert and family
          also came. Other settlers by the names of Prather and Jacobs located below 
                  Charlestown
               , while Gazaway, 
                  Mitchell
                and Robinett with their families settled near where 
                  Salem
                Methodist Church stands today.
            Bishop Francis Asbury and his associates had organized the District of 
                  Kentucky
                as early as 1797, with William McKendree as Presiding Elder. Samuel Parker
          had been given 
                  
                     1 This, the oldest Methodist Church in Indiana, is not at the
              City of 
                        Salem
                     , but is a rural church located near 
                        Charlestown
                     , Indiana. The facts recorded in this paper, except those for which
              referenies are given, were gathered through interviews with members of old families
              long associated with 
                        Salem
                      Church. Other information was obtained from the manuscript minutes of the 
                        Salem
                      Cemeterial Association.
                  
                     2 Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (1918),
              I, 819.
                  
                     3 Commodore W. Cauble, Disciples Church of Christ
                in Indiana (1930), 27, 29.
                  
                     4
                     Conference Minutes, 1925 (Indiana Conference of the Methodist
              Episcopal Church), 270. This, the 94th session of the Indiana Conference, was held at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     , Indiana, Sept. 9-14, 1925. On Thursday, Sept. 10, the members visited 
                        Charlestown
                     , about twenty miles from 
                        Jeffersonville
                     , and rededicated the old log church (Bethel Meeting-house) which had been
              reconstructed in the town. At this Conference, the Rev. J. Edward Murr of New 
                        Albany
                     , District Superintendent, read a paper which is included in the Conference Minutes.
                  
               
                an exhorter's license by McKendree on the
          Hinkstone Circuit in 
                  Kentucky
               . He with Edward Talbott visited the Springville settlement near 
                  Charlestown
                in 1800 and held a two day's revival. Springville and its
          stockaded fort, known as Fort 
                  Steuben
               , has long since disappeared. The site is on the Fletcher Ross farm of
            today.5
            
            At Springville, Parker met Nathan Robertson, as well as Gazaway, Prather, and Jacobs.
          Each one represented a different neighborhood or settlement, but all were members of the
          Methodist Church.6 Parker returned to 
                  Kentucky
                and reported the results of his trip to Rev. McKendree, who came to these
          Indiana settlements in 1801. He crossed the Ohio River above 
                  Charlestown
                Landing.7 Mr. Robinett, father of Elza Robinett,
          furnished the "Jo-Boat" in which McKendree crossed the river, and also
          acted as his guide.
            The Robinetts lived where John Zimmerman now lives. Mrs. Rose Zimmerman is a daughter of
          Elza Robinett. Thomas Gazaway lived where Thomas Bower now lives, just west, or rather
          north-west, of 
                  Salem
                Church. Mrs. Gazaway was a daughter of Nathan Robertson.8
          Across the road north and east of where 
                  Salem
                Church now stands is where Andrew 
                  Mitchell
                lived. He was the father of Hannah 
                  Mitchell
                who became the wife of Elza Robinett. Samuel Robertson lived back or south of 
                  Salem
                Church about three hundred yards at a later date, but it is probable that his
          father lived there at the time the 
                  Salem
                Church was organized. It may be that this was Robert Robertson, a brother of
          Nathan Robertson.
            McKendree, on the day of his arrival, went to the home of Mr. Gazaway and preached that
          night. Nathan Robertson was among those who attended this meeting. The next day McKendree
          preached at Nathan Robertson's home, then at Prather's, and then
          crossed the 
                  Ohio
                at the Falls to preach the first Methodist sermon in 
                  Louisville
               . "Classes" were formed at these places and the Circuit
          Rider, Benjamin Laken of Salt River and 
                  Shelby
                Circuits, visited these "Classes" in this same year,
            1801.9
            
            
               
                  5 See the paper by the Rev. Murr referred to in the last
            footnote. The William MeKendree mentioned became a Bishop in 1808, the first who was
            born in America.
               
                  6
                  Ibid.
               
               
                  7
                  Ibid.
               
               
                  8 The author obtained this information from a short History of the Nathan Robertson Family, kindly loaned to him by the Rev. H. Earl
            Moore of 
                     Lafayette
                  , Indiana.
               
                  9 See the paper by the Rev. Murr referred to above.
            
            
            The Rev. J. Edward Murr says: "A log church 20 × 18 feet was erected
          at Gazaway's during the late autumn of the year 1804, but unfortunately, it was
          accidently burned before it had been roofed and floored." It is not known exactly
          where this first or uncompleted log church-house of the 
                  Salem
                Church was built, but some say across the road from the Thomas Bower or
          Gazaway house. Mr. Murr recalls that, in 1807, the Nathan Robertson Church, known as
          Bethel Meeting House, was built near his home. This building was removed to 
                  Charlestown
                and reërected there in 1925. Mr. Murr also states that at about
          the same time of the building of Bethel Church, the "Class" at
          Prather's built a log meeting-house which was called Jacob's
            Chapel.10
            
            In the year 1807, Moses Ashworth was assigned to this new circuit. In 1808 he organized
          the first camp-meeting in Indiana. This was held on Nathan Robertson's farm.
          Here, in 1809, it was that George K. Hester "got religion under Sela
            Paine."11 Hester was an early Methodist preacher in
          southern Indiana.
            For a time meetings were held at the homes of the members, many of them at the home of
          Andrew 
                  Mitchell
               . Mr. 
                  Mitchell
                lived in a log house at first, but later built a stone house on his land
          below the church on the north side of where the road is now. He was himself a carpenter,
          and, a traveling Irish stonemason happening along, he hired him and the two of them built
          the stone house.
            The next church building was constructed of buckeye logs and became known as the
          "Buckeye Church." It was built about thirty or forty feet west, or
          toward the Gazaway house, from the spot where the present 
                  Salem
                Church stands. The Robertson farm had many large buckeye trees on it, some of
          them three feet through. It was there around the church site that the logs were cut. The
          present building has two dates on the front, 1809 and 1864. Members of the Church claim
          that the date 1809, indicates when the "Buckeye Church" was built, and
          1864, the date of the present building. The log church was torn down and the logs used in
          a stable on the Runyan place. Elza and Hannah Robinett are buried where 
                  
                     10
                     Ibid.
                  
                  
                     11 Andrew 
                        Mitchell
                      was born in 1776 and died in 1859. His wife, Sarah, was born in 1788 and
              died in 1861.
               
                this church stood, by their request, their graves
          being dug on the spot above which the pulpit had been located.
            Another family that lived near 
                  Salem
                Church at an early date was the Stilwell faiily. They moved away to the
          northward. Thomas Gazaway and his wife Elizabeth Robertson Gazaway moved to 
                  Jefferson
                County where they died. Sarah 
                  Mitchell
               , wife of Andrew 
                  Mitchell
               , was related to the Robertsons, probably a sister of the senior Samuel
          Robertson. Still another important family in the history of 
                  Salem
                Church is the 
                  Martin
                family, descendants of John 
                  Martin
               , who came to the community in 3833. They have always been loyal Methodists.
          John 
                  Martin
                married Hannah Robertson, daughter of Samuel Robertson. They lived for many
          years on the Thomas Bower farm.
            In 1896, on May 23, the 
                  Salem
                Cemeterial Association was formed with John W. 
                  Martin
               , President, and John A. H. Owens Secretary. The purpose of the Society as
          fully given by Temporary Chairman, R. J. Hutchings, "was for keeping the
          cemetery, including filling up sunken graves, cutting off, as often as necessary, grass,
          weeds, and briars." The first marked graves in 
                  Salem
                Cemetery are of the Purdues. A table stone bears the date, 1818. The dates
          are off of other stones which may be older. Other old graves are of the Robertsons, Owens,
          McCormick and 
                  Martin
                families.
            Meetings of the Cemeterial Association are held annually, usually about the first Sunday
          in June. At this first meeting, Mr. Owens read a paper on the Church of early days, giving
          references to the early quarterly conference records as far back as 1808 and 1809. The
          next year Mr. Owens read a paper on pioneer days in 
                  Clark
               's 
                  Grant
               . At the meeting of 1899, the Rev. Hall talked on the early History of the
          Church and Cemetery. He stated that the first grave made in the cemetery was that of
          Rachel Robinson12 and the second that of a child by the name of
          Purdue. The Rev. Joseph Cotton, who had entered the ministry in 1843, talked about early
          times. His first circuit consisted of the state of 
                  Missouri
               , over which he traveled on horseback, receiving the sum of one hundred
          dollars per year. At the meeting of June 2, 1900, H. F. Work talked on
          "Recollections of this locality forty-five years ago." The Rev. Hall
          also gave an address. In this he stated that the 
                  
                     12 The name was probably Robertson, not Robinson.
                  
               
                first Methodist sermon preached in Indiana was
          in a house standing near the present 
                  Salem
                Church. This is probably an error since Parker's two-day meeting
          at Springville in 1800 is usually conceded to be the first of the Methodists in the state.
          Rev. Hall undoubtedly referred to McKendree's sermon at Gazaway's
          which was delivered in 1801, when the three "Classes" were Organized.13
            
            
               
                  Salem
                Church was first a part of the Salt River Circuit in 
                  Kentucky
               , then Silver Creek in Indiana, later 
                  Charlestown
               , Indiana, more recently New 
                  Washington
               , and now Charles-town again. 
                  Salem
                Church which stands just off to the right of State Road No. 62, about four
          miles above 
                  Charlestown
               , is the oldest of the Methodist Churches of Indiana. Old Bethel Church and
          Jacob's Chapel both ceased to function long ago, being merged with other
          organizations. The life of 
                  Salem
                Church has been continuous, covering services and church activities for over
          one hundred thirty-one years. Many a noble, Christain man has served her as pastor; many
          fine people of the community have been members during the past four generations; and 
                  Salem
                Church still carries on.14
            
            
               
                  13 If it were possible to find and use the papers read by Mr.
            Owens, the Rev. Hall and others. a mine of information would be available.
               
                  14 The Rev. H. W. Woolridge was until recently pastor of 
                     Salem
                   Church, but was superseded by another a few months ago. The stewards are
            Clyde Bower, Ferd 
                     Spencer
                  , and May Noe. Mr. Bower Is president and Miss Noe secretary of the
            Cemeterial Association.
            
         
         
         
            The Edward Goodwin Family
            By CLARENCE L. GOODWIN
            
            A replica of Fort Necessity, near Uniontown, 
                  Pennsylvania
               , was the scene of the Battle of Great Meadows which was fought in 1754
          between troops under the command of Colonel George 
                  Washington
                and a body of French troops aided by Indian allies. It may be of interest in
          this connection that a grave in 
                  Charlestown
                Township, 
                  Clark
                County, Indiana, is the last resting place of a soldier believed to have been
          one of the Virginians who was in that battle. An Edward Goodwin was in the engagement and
          received a wound. The descendants of the Edward Goodwin who migrated to 
                  Clark
               's 
                  Grant
                from 
                  Virginia
               , many of whom live in 
                  Clark
                County today, do not claim to be able to furnish positive proof that their
          ancestor is the same who served at Fort Necessity, but they confidently believe this to be
          true.
            While the Edward Goodwin who died in 
                  Clark
                County, Indiana, at the age of one hundred eight years, left no records of
          his early life, it is known that he was from 
                  Virginia
               . The family tradition is that he was born in 
                  Wales
                and brought to America when a boy. At the time of the Battle of Great
          Meadows, he was about thirty-seven years of age. His descendants know that two of his
          sons, Amos and William, served in one or the other of the expeditions of Colonel George
          Rogers 
                  Clark
                against the British and Indians in the Old Northwest. They also know that
          either the father, Edward Goodwin, or a son of the same name served along with Amos and
          William.
            Amos Goodwin served, two years as a 
                  Virginia
                soldier in the Continental Line probably after his service under 
                  Clark
                in the West. There is a record of his enlistment from Culpepper County, 
                  Virginia
               , under Captain Thomas and Colonel Slaughton.
            It was about 1790 that the Goodwins, Edward and his sons, migrated from 
                  Virginia
               . They located in the "Pond Settlement" near 
                  Louisville
               . In 1800 Edward and his son William crossed the 
                  Ohio
                to live in what became 
                  Clark
                County, Indiana. Amos remained behind and died in 
                  Kentucky
                at Jeffersontown not far from 
                  Louisville
               . That the Goodwins saw  service in the
          Northwest is evidenced by the roll of 
                  Clark
               's forces.1
            
            A chapter devoted to the "Goodwins of 
                  Clark
                County, Indiana," forms a part of The Goodwin Families
            of America by the late Judge John S. Goodwin of 
                  Chicago
               . This work was issued as a voluminous supplement to the William
            ad Mary College Quarterly of October, 1899.2 In the chapter
          relating to the 
                  Clark
                County Goodwins, Judge Goodwin, one of the Goodwins of 
                  Brookville
               , Indiana, and who was not related to Edward Goodwin, said of him: 
                  An Edward Goodwin served as an officer under Colonel George 
                        Washington
                      in his campaign on the Monongahela in 1754, and was allotted land under
              Governor Dinwiddie's proclamation, and an Edward Goodwin served in the
              French and Indian Wars of 1771 in Captain Hogg's company, George 
                        Washington
                     , Colonel. I have found no other Edward Goodwin in all the family records
              pertaining to the Southern Goodwins and think it extremely probable that these records
              all referred to this Edward, as he is known to have been living in 
                        Virginia
                      in 1758.3
                  
               
            
            Edward Goodwin lived to be 108 years old, being a man of remarkable physical vigor. It is
          said that at the age of one hundred he could "jump on the back of a
          horse." He died in 
                  Charlestown
                Township, 
                  Clark
                County, in May, 1826. His remains lie in a Goodwin family graveyard on a farm
          which has been in the Goodwin family since about 1800. It is on the banks of Pleasant Run
          Creek, 
                  Charlestown
                Township, four miles southwest of 
                  Charlestown
               . The old Virginian was buried beside his son, William Goodwin, who, because
          of his service under 
                  Clark
               , received an allotment of land in 
                  Clark
                County.
            William Goodwin, who moved his family from 
                  Virginia
                to 
                  Kentucky
                about 1790 and later settled in 
                  Clark
                County, Indiana, became one of the six judges of the Court of Quarter
          Sessions for Southern Indiana, 
                  Clark
                County being included in the district. He served for a period of twenty-three
          years. 
                  
                     1 See William H. English, Conquest of the Country
                Northwest of the Ohio River
                      (1896), II, 1060-1073, for the
              roll. The names of Amos and Edward Goodwin appear on P. 1063. It is not known whether
              there was a son Edward, so it seems a fair conjecture that the Edward listed was the
              father of Amos and William, who was then about sixty years old.
                  
                     2 A Supplement prepared by Judge Goodwin was first issued by
              the William and Mary College Quarterly in October, 1897. In this no
              reference was made to the Goodwins of 
                        Clark
                      County. The revised Supplement issued in 1899 is marked by numerous
              changes and incorporates additional matter, the chapter on "The Goodwins of 
                        Clark
                      County, Indiana," being: included.
                  
                     3
                     William and Mary College Quarterly October, 1899, Supplement,
              119-120. This opinion of Edward Goodwin is sustained by J. A. Leach, a genealogist of
                  
                        Richmond, Virginia
                     , who was employed in later years by a
              descendant of Edward to examine the colonial records at 
                        Richmond
                     .
               
                He was appointed in 1800 or in 1801 by William Henry
          Harrison, then Governor of Indiana Territory. William Goodwin was succeeded as judge by
          his son, Willis W. Goodwin, who had previously served as sheriff. While sheriff, Willis is
          said to have arrested Aaron Burr and taken him before Judge Thomas T. Davis. This arrest
          was presumably made when Burr was in the West laying plans to organize the conspiracy for
          which he was later tried at 
                  Richmond,
              Virginia
               .4
            
            William Goodwin's three sons, John, Willis W., and Amos, all residents of 
                  Clark
                County, served in the 
                  Tippecanoe
                expedition in 1811. Amos is understood to have held the rank of captain at
          the time. When preparing to leave for this service, it was found he had no suitable coat
          and a black sheep was speedily sheared and the fleece quickly spun and woven to make him a
          coat. A descendant of John Goodwin has the old saber and flint-lock pistols which his
          grandfather carried as a member of a company of light dragoons at the Battle of 
                  Tippecanoe
               .
            Among the descendants of Edward, through his son William, was the late Thomas W. 
                  Gibson
               , great grandson of William who served three years in the Seventh Indiana
          Cavalry during the Civil War. After the war he became an afficer in the Eighth United States Cavalry, serving in Indian campaigns. His brother, the late Charles
          H. 
                  Gibson
               , was a prominent attorney of 
                  Louisville
               . The late Dr. Albert L. Goodwin of 
                  Mitchell
               , Indiana, grandson of William, served in an Indiana regiment in the Mexican
          War and was also for a time in the medical service of the 
                  Union
                Army during the Civil War, The following additional grandchildren of William
          Goodwin, son of Edward, now all dead, should be listed: Calvin S. Goodwin, 
                  Columbus
                C. Goodwin, Isaac H. B. D. Goodwin, Mrs. Thomas W. 
                  Gibson
               , and Mrs. John P. Nicholson, all of whom lived in 
                  Clark
                County; Dr. John M. Goodwin of 
                  Warren
                County, 
                  Kentucky
               ; and Felix Goodwin of 
                  Texas
               .
            Many descendants of the elder Edward Goodwin still live in Indiana in 
                  Clark
                and 
                  Floyd
                counties, among them being: Henry Goodwin of New 
                  Albany
               , a son of Willis W., who lived to the age of 93; Gay G. Goodwin of 
                  Jeffersonville
               ; Tyler 
                  
                     4 Twice while in the 
                        Ohio
                      Valley, Burr was brought before a federal grand jury at 
                        Frankfort
                     , Ky., Joseph Hamilton 
                        Daviess
                      being the federal district attorney It was possibly in this connection
              that Sheriff Willis W. Goodwin figured. Judge Davis was firendly to Burr, but District
              Attorney 
                        Daviess
                      was hostile to him. See Issac J. Cox, "The Burr Conspiracy in
              Indiana," in Indiana. Magazine of History. XXV,
            257-280.
               
                Goodwin and Amos Goodwin of 
                  Charlestown
                Township, 
                  Clark
                County; Judge George H. D. 
                  Gibson
                and Mrs. Mary Goodwin Davies of 
                  Charlestown
               ; and Mrs. Lena Goodwin and Mrs. Charles T. Hertzsch of 
                  Jeffersonville
               . Other living descendants are: John K. Goodwin of 
                  Indianapolis
               ; Dr. C. C. Goodwin of Kendallville, Indiana; Mrs. 
                  Georgia
                Speed and Good. win Speed of 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               ;
          Prof. Russell Sharp of 
                  St. Louis, Missouri
               , and Cecil Sharp of Peru,
          Indiana; and Clarence L. Goodwin, author of this article, of 
                  Greensburg, Pennsylvania
               .
            The last three named and John K. Goodwin are graduates of Indiana University. John M.
          Goodwin of St. Petersburg, 
                  Florida
               , another descendant of Edward Goodwin, was a student at Indiana University in
          the eighteen-eighties. Still other descendants were the late Willis B. Goodwin, of the
          Class of 1864, and his brother, the late Alexander 
                  Campbell
                Goodwin, both of 
                  Jeffersonville
               , and both prominent educators of their time.
            
               GRAVE STONES IN THE GOODWIN CEMETERY.
               (On each stone there is inscribed in small type, which did not reproduce, between the
            name at the top and the name of the widow below, the words, "Husband
            of." The dates and years refer, respectively, to Edward and William).
            
         
         
         
            The Endicotts of Indiana
            By MABEL NISBET MCLAUGHLIN
            
            On Christmas day of 1815, the pioneers of 
                  Posey
                County gazed upon a white world. A heavy snow had fallen, followed by sleet.
          The lightest footfall produced a crunching, snapping sound. Very early on this Christmas
          morning the family of Jonathan Jaquess heard a noise outside their home. The sound seemed
          to pass around the house in circles. Investigation revealed Joseph Endicott running round
          and round the house exclaiming, "It's a girl, Becky! It's a
          girl!". Already the father of five sons, the good man rejoiced on this Christmas
          morning of 1815, the birthday of his first daughter, who was christened Elizabeth Fraser
          in honor of her maternal grandmother, Elizabeth Fraser Casey, wife of William Casey and
          sister of Mrs. Jonathan (Rebecca Fraser) Jaquess.1
            
            In September 1628 there came sailing into the harbor of Naumkeag, afterwards called 
                  Salem
               , a ship bearing John Endicott and some forty souls besides. They were not
          adventurers, not vagabonds, but virtuous, well-educated, courageous men and women who for
          conscience' sake left comfortable homes in 
                  England
               . John Endicott was chosen governor, and faithfully did this first governor of 
                  Salem
                serve his people, braving his King's displeasure rather than
          swerve a hair's breadth from the course dictated by conscience. A zealous 
                  Puritan
               , he supressed Morton and his roisterers of the "Merry
          Mount," and in 1629 shipped off to 
                  England
                two brothers named Browne, advocates of the Church of 
                  England
               , as "factious and evil conditioned."2
          In order to meet the needs of the Colony, he established a mint in spite of a law
          forbidding such action. His second son, Zerubbabel, administered to the Colony with pill
          box and lancet, a service that tried the soul in those days of pestilence and privation.
            Leaving 
                  Massachusetts
                in 1698, Joseph Endicott3 settled in Northampton,
          Burlington County, 
                  New Jersey
               . Whether this migration was due to the urge of pioneering blood, which ever
          seems to have stirred in Endicott veins, or to economic conditions, 
                  
                     1 Reminiscences of Elizabeth Fraser (Endicott) Nisbet.
                  
                     2 Thomas Wentworth Higginson, "An English
              Nation," in Harper's Monthly (April, 1883),
              LXVI, 706-722. The title of this article should be, "America, An English
              Nation." The portion dealing with John Endicott is confined to pages 718-720.
                  
                     3 The name was originally spelled Endecott
              not Endicott.
                  
               
                Joseph being one of thirteen children born to Dr.
          Zerubbabel Endicott, one is left to surmise.4
            
            It was in the new Northampton home that Joseph, Jr. second son of Joseph, Sr. and Hannah
          Endicott, was born in 1711. On May 12, 1736, he was licensed to wed Ann Gillam, who, ere
          her eldest son Thomas had reached the age of twelve, was widowed.5 A
          Bible now in the possession of Charles F. Endicott of Danville, 
                  Illinois
               , contains the following record: 
                  Thomas Endecott, son of Joseph and Ann Endecott was born March 27th, 1737.
                  Joseph Endecott was born June 8th, 1738.
                  Samuel Endecott was born February 5th, 1741.
                  [—] Endecott was born March 20th, 1742.
                  Sarah Endecott was born December 4th, 1744.
                  [Frazillia?] Endecott was born December 9th, 1746.
                  Sarah Endecott was born December 6th, 1722.6
                  
               
            
            In 1759 Thomas Endicott was licensed to wed Sarah Welsh. Soon after this marriage,
          another migration took place. The new home was probably established near the 
                  North Carolina
               -
                  Virginia
                border, as in Surry County, 
                  North Carolina
               , there is a stream known as Endicott Creek flowing in the Low Gap
          neighborhood. It was from Surry County that the lad Moses Endicott, first born of Thomas
          and Sarah, enlisted as a soldier during the Revolutionary War. An affidavit made by him on
          March 12, 1833, states that he was born in Burlington, 
                  New Jersey
               , in 1759. Included in the statement is the claim that "the record is
          in an old Family Bible now in my possession." Young Moses Endicott enlisted in
          October, 1777, and served during the entire period of the War of Independence. About
          March, 1780, he undertook the dangerous duty of packing lead from the mines on New River, 
                  Virginia
               . A road marker at Fort Chiswell, nine miles from Wytheville, 
                  Virginia
               , contains the following inscription: "Lead mines nine miles south.
          Discovered in 1756 by Col. John Chiswell. The mines supplied lead for patriots in the
          Revolutionary War. Tories attempted to seize them in 1780, but were repulsed."
          Skirmishes with 
                  
                     4 Charles M. Endicott, "The Endicott
              Family," in New 
                           England
                         Historical and Genealogical Register for 1847.
                  
                     5
                     Ibid.; papers in possession of Mrs. Mary Lovering of Watertown,
              Mass.
                  
                     6 A copy of the record was furnished to the writer by Charles
              F. Endicott of Danville, 
                        Illinois
                     . The name of the fourth person listed above may have been Barzilla or Barzillia; it is blurred in the original. There
              was difficulty in making out the name of the sixth person listed in the original: it
              may have been Frazillia as suggested. The Bible mentioned was
              printed by Robert Freebairn, His Majesty's Printer, in the year 1735 at
              Edinburg, 
                        Scotland
                     .
               
                the Tories that occurred near the Big Glade on New
          River and on Reedy Fork of Haw River are mentioned by Moses Endicott, and his statement
          concerning the theft of his horse "a short time previous to the Battle of Kings
          Mountain," which prevented participation in that engagement, brings a vision of
          the youth's resentment at the fate which forced him to march with the foot
          soldiers "who went in a different route in an attempt to intercept the British
          commander, Major Feguson."7
            
            It was in 1786, according to the deposition of Thomas Endirott, Jr., dated September 14,
          1832, that the Endicotts left their Carolina home and moved to 
                  Kentucky
               .8 Details of this journey are meager, but we know that
          Thomas Endicott, then a man of about forty-nine, and his wife Sarah (Welsh) Endicott, with
          their seven sturdy sons—Moses, Joseph, Aaron, Thomas, Samuel, William, and
          John—made the trip. With them came also the joy and pride of the
          family—Nancy—the only Daughter. It was in January, 1804, that Nancy
          married Memorial Forest. It is likely that she was a very small girl when she made the
          trip to 
                  Kentucky
                eighteen years earlier for pioneer marriages usually occurred early in life.
          Thomas Endicott, Jr. and Milly Grubbs were married in November, 1795; William Endicott,
          and Mary Trousdale in December of 1801; John Endicott and Ann Kimbrough Davenport Saddler
          in September 1811.9 Some years previous to the migration of Thomas
          Endicott and family, at least two weddings had occurred—Moses to Martha Hill,
          and Joseph, who settled in Nicholas County, 
                  Kentucky
               , to Wilmot Phillips.
            Another member of the party of 
                  Kentucky
                colonists was Joseph Endicott, son of Moses and Martha (Hill) Endicott, who
          was born in 
                  North Carolina
                on December 6, 1784. The little Joseph probably made the journey in a
          saddle-bag, as did many babies of pioneer times, for the "road cut by 
                  Boone
                in 1775 through the Wilderness from Cumberland Gap to Boones-borough was only
          a path for horses. Early emigrants either walked or rode horse-back prior to
            1796."10
            
            Thomas Endicott, Sr. must have had an unusual sense of 
                  
                     7 The information embodied in the above paragraph was obtained
              through the Veteran's Administration, 
                        Washington
                     , D. C.
                  
                     8
                     Ibid.
                  
                  
                     9 Court Records of 
                        Posey
                      County, Indiana. Date obtained by W. C. Endicott of Cynthiana, 
                        Kentucky
                     .
                  
                     10 H. Addington Bruce, Daniel 
                           Boone
                         and The Wilderness Road (1910).
               
                land values. In April, 1789, he bought one hundred
          acres of land lying on Greer's Creek, paying sixty pounds for it. Woodford
          County Court records show that on February, 1790, ten months later, this land was sold to
          Henry Shous for one hundred ten pounds, the deed being signed by Thomas Endicott and his
          wife, Sarah.11
            
            One of the first acts of the Endicotts on coming to 
                  Kentucky
                was to build a meeting house. The early records of the Cynthiana, 
                  Kentucky
               , Christian Church contains many names of persons who transferred their
          memberships from the "Endicott Meeting House," now known as The Indian
          Creek Baptist Church. It was nonsectarian prior to 1840. Built in 1791, it stands on land
          once owned by Moses Endicott, and its graveyard is probably the last resting place of many
          Endicotts. The tombstone of Mary Trousdale Endicott (wife of William), born October 3,
          1781—died July 24, 1853, is still standing. The logs of the original meeting
          house remain beneath the present weather-boarding. The pulpit is at the back, facing the
          center window of the front. There were two doors, since it was the custom in the early
          days for the men to enter by the left door and the women by the right. With the men
          carrying rifles as a precaution against prowling savages, the pioneers worshipped in the
          old "Endecott Meeting House on the Millersburg Road."12
            
            Deprived of the companions of their earlier married years, Moses Endicott and his
          sister-in-law, Wilmot Phillips Endicott, sought solace in each other's society,
          and, on March 27, 1834, were married in 
                  Harrison
                County, 
                  Kentucky
               .13
            
            No portrait of Moses Endicott, the Minute Man of the War of Independence, exists, but a
          word picture handed down among descendants, shows a portly man, with ruddy
          complexion—a genial soul, who often spoke of freedom to a faithful Negro mammy.
          However, his sudden death in 1834, caused by a stroke of apoplexy, prevented the
          fulfillment of his 
                  
                     11 Court Records of 
                        Posey
                      County, Indiana.
                  
                     12
                     Ibid.
                  
                     13
                     Ibid.
               
                promise.14 Let us hope some of his
          heirs made his word good.15
            
            The substantial log house built by Moses in 
                  Harrison
                County, 
                  Kentucky
               , was purchased from his heirs by Aaron, son of his brother William. This home
          is today owned and occupied by Mrs. Jesse Endicott and her daughter, Jessie Belle
          Endicott. A part of the original log structure is preserved in the present building.16
            
            Spanning almost one hundred years, Thomas Endicott lived through two wars. The part he
          played in the Revolutionary War is a matter of surmise. He may have been a Tory, but this
          is hardly probable with his eldest son, Moses, espousing the American cause. He was not,
          however, a pensioner, and search for his Revolutionary War record has, to date, been
          unfruitful. In 1812-14 he probably sought frequent news from the front, for he had at
          least five grand-sons in the American Army. According to a deposition of Wilmot Phillips
          Endicott, three of these soldiers of the War of 1812 were sons of Joseph Endicott of
          Nicholas County, and two (John A. and Joseph), sons of Moses, the Minute Man, and Martha
          (Hill) Endicott.17
            
            Accounts of the death of the famous Tecumseh have been handed down in the Endicott
          Family. Will H. Davis, of 
                  Posey
               -ville, Indiana, a grandson of Joseph, wrote under date of July 18, 1931, at
          the age of eighty: "Grandfather lived near us and often came to see us and spend
          the night. He enjoyed telling his grandchildren tales. I remember he told us about
          shooting at Tecumseh during the battle in which he was killed. He said there were [sic] a number who shot at the Indian and that it was never positively
          known whose bullet hit him." In May 1932, John A. Blakely of Platteville, 
                  Wisconsin
               , a Civil War Veteran, wrote: 
                  My grandfather, John A. Endicott and his brother, Joseph, enlisted in 
                        Kentucky
                      in Col. Richard 
                        Johnson
                     's regiment of mounted infantry. 
                        
                           14 Data obtained from Mrs. T. F. Hensley, El Reno, 
                              Oklahoma
                           .
                        
                           15
                           Ibid. Heirs of Moses Endicott were: his children, Joseph, John
                  A., Samuel, Jesse, James, Elizabeth Endicott Miller, Margaret Endicott Ross:
                  grandchildren (children of his deceased daughter Sarah Endicott Mullen),
                  Barzillia, Seldon, James, Elizabeth, Nancy, and Thomas. The heirs of Moses
                  Endicott, Sr. were married as follows: Joseph to Rebecca Casey; John H. to Nancy
                  Adair: Samuel to Zerelda Nisbet: Jesse to Sally Lowe: James to Jane Miller:
                  Elizabeth to Abraham Miller: Margaret to James Smith; Moses Jr. to Sally Moffitt:
                  William to Ellen Drummond: Nancy to William King; Martha to William Ross; Sarah to
                  William Mullen.
                        
                           16 Court Records of 
                              Posey
                            County, Indiana.
                        
                           17 Papers of W. C. Endicott, Cynthiana, Ky.
                     
                      They fought in the Battle of the Thames [1813]
              with the British and their allied Indians. Col. 
                        Johnson
                      was the man who killed the noted Chief Tecumseh, and my grandfather said
              it happened this way: "Col. 
                        Johnson
                      had his horse shot under him and in falling caught his leg under it.
              Tecumseh, seeing his plight and thinking to get an easy scalp, rushed out, but the
              Colonel drew his dragoon pistol from his saddle holster and killed him."
               
            
            After the ardous labor of clearing land on the 
                  North Carolina
               -
                  Virginia
                border, and later in 
                  Kentucky
               , one would suppose that the adventurous spirit of Thomas Endicott should have
          been satisfied. But true to the Endicott tradition, he could not resist the lure of the
          unconqured forest. In 1799, he deeded land to several of his heirs. His charming wife
          Sarah Welsh Endicott, whose name has been handed along to so many of her descendants, had
          recently died. It could not have been long after the death of his wife and the bestowal of
          his 
                  Kentucky
                lands on his heirs before this hardy pioneer migrated to 
                  Posey
                County, Indiana Territory. Probably, the distribution of his lands in 1799
          was made to avoid complications should he marry again. Some years later, in October, 1814,
          the old pioneer returned to 
                  Kentucky
                to wed Susanna Young of Nicholas County.18
            
            The exact date of the migration of Thomas Endicott into the Indiana wilderness is not
          known, but it is certain that his last years were spent in 
                  Posey
                County. In Mount Vernon, Indiana, his will is recorded. It was drawn up in
          October, 1827, and includes the assertion that he was "very old and infirm of
          body." He made bequests to his sons, Moses, Joseph, Aaron, Thomas, Samuel, John,
          to his daughter, Nancy, and to his son William's heirs. The bulk of his estate,
          however, was left by his will to "My little son, Absolam Turner
          Endicott." His wife, Susanna is also mentioned. The will contains the following
          paragraph of peculiar interest to his descendants: "I also give extra to my
          little son, Absolam Turner Endicott, my large Family Bible.19 Where
          this Bible is today is a most interesting question. One owned by Mrs. John F. Meade of
          Francisco, Indiana contains the following entries: 
                  Aaron Endicott born August 12th 1764.
                  died January 4th 1831.
                  Sarah Endicott Whiting born December 26th 1790.
                  died May 10th 1829.
                  
                     
                        18 Court Records of Poses County, Ind.
                     
                        19 Will Record of Poser County, Ind.
                  
                  
                  Harriet Endicott Barriet died January 19th 1822.
                  Thomas Endicott died January 22nd 1831—age said to be near one hundred
              years.
                  
                     
                        Virginia
                      Endicott died November 22nd 1818.
                  Cynthia Endicott died August 4th 1819.
                  Nancy Endicott died January 12th 1821.
                  Phebe Endicott, daughter of John H. Endicott, died July 15th 1822.20
                  
               
            
            This Bible, judging from the records contained therein, must have been the Bible of Aaron
          Endicott, a son of Thomas, in whose custody the latter desired the son of his old age,
          Absolam Turner Endicott, to be placed: 
                  I next earnestly recommend him, [Absolam Turner Endicott,] to be placed in the care
              and control of my son, Aaron Endicott, hoping that no interference in this last wish
              of mine will take place, for him to raise and educate in any degree of education that
              he and Joseph Wasson, my Executor, may determine on by having concurrent jurisdiction
                each.21
                  
               
            
            Nancy Endicott Forest, the much loved daughter of Thomas, also went to 
                  Posey
                County. In 1823 the 
                  Posey
                County Court ordered that James McCravey be appointed guardian for Levina
          Forest and Thomas Forest, infant heirs of Memorial Forest, deceased, while Sally Forest,
          aged fourteen years and three months, chose Mr. McCravey for her guardian. Other heirs
          were Matilda Forest McReary, wife of James McReary, and John M. Forest.22
            
            It was on the first day of September, 1815, that Joseph Endicott, eldest son of Moses
          Endicott, the Minute Man, left 
                  Harrison
                County, 
                  Kentucky
                for 
                  Posey
                County, Indiana. The colony of forty-four persons of which he was a member
          divided into two companies, a part of the men traveling by land with horses, wagons and
          cattle. The women and children with men enough to man the boats embarked at Augusta and
          traveled by water, landing at Diamond Island, now known as West 
                  Franklin
               , from which point the journey was continued by land.23
               
                  
                     20 Copy of this record was furnished by Mrs. John F. Meade of
              Francisco, Indiana.
                  
                     21 Will Record of 
                        Posey
                      County, Ind.
                  
                     22
                     
                        Posey
                      County Court Records. Data obtained by W. C. Endicott of Cynthiana, 
                        Kentucky
                     . John A. Endicott and Samuel Endicott sons of Moses Endicott, the Minute
              Man, also settled in 
                        Posey
                      County, Ind. The children of John A. were: James, Moses, Margaret
              (married a man named Emery), Ann Eliza (married a George Endicott, her kinsman),
              Amanda Melvina (married a Blakely), and Sarah (married a Tiddle). Data obtained from
              John A. Blakely, Platteville, 
                        Wisconsin
                     . The known children of Samuel Endicott were Martha Ann (married an
              Ashworth) and Alfred Berry Endicott. Data obtained from the James Nisbet Bible by the
              author of this article.
                  
                     23 Diary of Asbury Cloud Jaquess. Data obtained through his
              grand-daughter, Mrs. Charles T. 
                        Johnson
                      of Mount Vernon, Indiana.
               
                We have little conception of the hardships of the
          journey, its hazards, and the trials which came to these sturdy pioneers, but it was not
          until September 25 that they arrived in 
                  Posey
                County.24
            
            Included in the colony were William Casey and his two sons-in-law, Joseph Endicott and
          Stephen Eaton, with their families; the families of Jonathan Jaquess, his son-in-law,
          Samuel Hirons, and stepson James Rankin, who became one of 
                  Posey
                County's first teachers;25 also the family of
          Alexander Ferguson, whose wife was another of the Fraser sisters (Mary).26
            
            A trip, via horseback, to 
                  Vincennes
                was made by Joseph Endicott for the purpose of obtaining patents to his
          lands. Then the temporary cabin home was built, though it was soon replaced by a large
            log-house.27 A part of this more pretentious and carefully built
          structure of logs is still preserved. Unseen, but well protected, some of the original
          walls are incorporated in the house still standing on the old Endicott place near
          Poseyville, Indiana.
            The fortitude and courage of pioneer women is graphically portrayed by Rebecca Casey
          Endicott, who journeyed from 
                  Harrison
                County, 
                  Kentucky
                to 
                  Posey
                County, Indiana, in September 1815, endured the hardships of travel,
          established a home for her husband and five boys in the golden autumn days, and when the
          snows of Christmas fell welcomed her first daughter.28
            
            The country was an almost unbroken wilderness. Game was abundant. Venison and wild 
                  turkey
                were common articles on the daily menu. Bears, panthers, and wolves added to
          the daily hazards of life, not to mention the prowling Indian. The flaming plummage of
          pheasant and parrotquet brightened the dark green of the forest; the swooping eagle
          menaced the safety of the flocks.29
            
            But joy reigned in the log cabin home of Joseph and Rebecca (Casey) Endicott. Christmas
          was always a gala occasion, which at dawn was heralded by the firing of a home-made
          cannon. The Endicott sons made such a cannon by hollowing 
                  
                     24
                     History of 
                           Posey
                         County (1885), 284.
                  
                     25
                     Ibid.
                  
                  
                     26 Diary of Asbury Cloud Jaquess.
                  
                     27 Reminiscences of Elizabeth Frazer (Endicott) Nisbet.
                  
                     28 See first paragraph of this article.
                  
                     29 Diary of Asbury Cloud Jaquess.
               
                out a log, cut especially for the purpose, and filling
          the opening with powder.30
            
            Eleven times quill pens were made and eleven times the Bible was opened at the page
          headed "Family Record"—five times in 
                  Kentucky
               , and six times in Indiana. Below are the entries: 
                  Joseph Endicott born December 6, 1784.
                  Rebecca [Casey] Endicott born September 11, 1784.
                  Joseph Endicott and Rebecca Casey married June 20, 1805 at the Bride's
              home in 
                        Harrison
                      County, 
                        Kentucky
                     , by Benjamin Coleman, VDH, in the presence of Mary E. Jones and John W.
              Stone.
                  William Casey Endicott born March 7, 1806.
                  Moses born September 1, 1807.
                  Henry born March 7, 1809.
                  James born May 10, 1811.
                  Joseph born July 28, 1814.
                  Elizabeth Fraser born December 25, 1815.
                  Martha born April 21, 1818.
                  Joel born May 28, 1820.
                  Mary Casey born January 24, 1823.
                  George born August 19, 1825.
                  Samuel born February 5, 1829.31
                  
               
            
            Joseph Endicott was a hunter of exceptional prowess. Invitations to log raisings always
          ended with, "And, Joseph, you bring the meat."32 To
          such an invitation he responded when the pioneers of 
                  Posey
                County erected a log fort, about 30 x 30 feet, as a common place of refuge
          from the numerous Indian depredations. This fort was located about one mile southwest of
            Stewartsville.33 His eldest daughter, Elizabeth Fraser, frequently
          spoke of the time when the family was compelled to flee to the Fort for safety. They had
          only recently returned to their home after a period of refuge. The cry,
          "Indians"! "Indians"! was heard. Rebecca was preparing
          breakfast. Joseph hid his family in the corn field and went to investigate, Returning he
          had difficulty in locating them, so well had he hidden them, but he went up and down the
          rows, whispering, "Indians, Becky! Indians." To hasten their progress to
          the Fort, Rebecca and Joseph took charge of the larger of the smaller children, while the
          older children, with the precision 
                  
                     30 Reminiscences of Elizabeth Frazer (Endicott) Nisbet.
                  
                     31 Copy of record furnished by Mrs. Edith Endicott Pierce,
              daughter of H. C. Endicott.
                  
                     32 Stated in a letter of Elizabeth Endicott Pierce.
                  
                     33
                     History of 
                           Posey
                         County, 285.
                  
                     34 Reminiscences of Elizabeth Frazer (Endicott) Nisbet.
               
                of trained soldiers, took charge of the smaller and
          more easily managed children.34
            
            The year 1816 brought log rolling for the school house, with its greased paper windows
          and log benches.35 These were without backs, and at least one pupil
          who attended that school never used the back of her chair. This was Elizabeth Fraser
          Endicott who married Alfred B. Nisbet. Erect and proud of carriage, she scorned a
          chair-back until well past eighty. It is not known what part the Endicotts played in the
          organization of this school, but it is known that Samuel Endicott, uncle of Joseph, was
          "a distinguished classical teacher" of 
                  Harrison
                County, 
                  Kentucky
               . It is also known that the Endicotts contributed to the medical fraternity of 
                  Posey
                County, since Samuel, brother of Joseph, following in the footsteps of his
          ancestor Zerubbabel, dispensed pills and powders to his neighbors.
            Today as one drives through the rich, well-tilled farm lands of 
                  Posey
                County thoughts turn back to the time when ancestors labored to wrest homes
          from the wilderness. The clearing of a quarter of an acre a day was considered a good
          day's work.36 Joseph Endicott, at lunch time, cut his bread
          with an axe, resorted to flint and steel to kindle a fire, and warmed the frozen hunks of
          food until they were fit to be eaten.
            This old home place was the scene of the weddings of the three Endicott
          daughters—Elizabeth, Fraser (Betsey), who married Alfred Berry Nisbet; Martha
          (Patsy), who married William Calvert; and Mary Casey (Pop), who married Joseph Davis. The
          old log schoolhouse saw the beginnings of courtship for at least two of these sisters.
          Here Young Alfred Nisbet presented to Elizabeth a gift the memory of which brightened her
          eyes after more than a half a century—just an egg shell blown
          out and filled with maple sugar from his father's camp. Here, also, Joseph
          Davis, near kinsman of the Joseph Davis of the Confederacy, instructed Mary Casey Endicott
          in English Grammar. Evidently the parsing pages were stressed for it is said that one day
          the sunny "Pop" was moody, and, either by accident or intent, several
          members of the family inquired, "What are you doing, Pop, parsing?" The
          dreamy 
                  
                     34 Reminiscences of Elizabeth Frazer (Endicott) Nisbet.
                  
                     35
                     History of 
                           Posey
                         County. 286-287.
                  
                     36 Diary of Asbury Cloud Jaquess.
               
                girl ran weeping from the room. They were fair, these
          Endicott sisters, made fair by pure rain-water and the dew of the wheat fields, to which
          they repaired early in the morning for the purpose of dashing the dew upon their faces.37
            
            To acquire a proper trousseau for his eldest daughter, the devoted father rode horseback
          all the way to 
                  Cincinnati
               . 
                  White
                satin slippers and a large white leghorn hat were among the purchases that
          were carried back to 
                  Posey
                County. The home furnished hand-woven linen, since on Good Friday of each
          year, Joseph sowed his flax patch.38
            
            The trio of young women were missed in that home after they were married. In July, 1851,
          a few years after the third daughter was wedded, the mother died. Then indeed was the home
          circle broken. On February 12, 1854, Samuel, the youngest son, married Elizabeth Schrader.
          The bride, whose father, John Schrader, was a pioneer preacher, was brought to the
          Endicott home. A capable and much loved mistress did this daughter of the parsonage
          become. Soon she was known as "Aunt Liz" and warmly did she welcome one
          and all of the eighty-two grand children who, from time to time while the years passed,
          sought the old Endicott home's comforting hospitality.
            Within sight and sound of the walls which echoed the merry shouts of his children,
          grand-children and great grand-children, on land that he cleared himself, sleeps Joseph
          Endicott, soldier of 1812. By his side rests the comrade of his life—Rebecca
          Casey Endicott. Near them sleep some of their children: Joel, claimed by the wilderness
          ere he reached his thirteenth birthday—crushed by a felled tree; and James, who
          contracted the dreaded plague, cholera, while serving in the Indiana Legislature.
          Returning on horse-back from 
                  Indianapolis
               , while desperately ill, James Endicott was nursed by his wife, Mary (Nisbet)
          Endicott. Within five days both slept in the family burying ground.39
            
            In 1824 a party of pioneers, among whom Abraham Miller and his wife, Elizabeth Endicott
          Miller, daughter of Moses and Martha (Hill) Endicott, were numbered, settled near 
                  Crawfordsville
               . They migrated from their 
                  Kentucky
                home, 
                  
                     37 Reminiscences of Elizabeth Frazer (Endicott) Nisbet.
                  
                     38
                     Ibid.
                  
                  
                     39
                     Ibid.
                  
               
                guided by the slender needle of a compass once the
          possession of Daniel 
                  Boone
               . Back in 1792 the Miller homestead had been the last white settlement toward
          the 
                  Kentucky
               -Indiana frontier, and here 
                  Boone
                frequently stopped, sometimes remaining for weeks. During these visits he
          taught the boy Abraham Miller to load a rifle without wasting powder and the use of the
          compass and sun-glass. At the age of eleven, Abraham killed a large panther which was
          about to attack the herd in his charge. When 
                  Boone
               , on one of his visits, saw the hide stretched on the side of the cabin, he
          was so pleased with his pupil's presence of mind and markmanship that he
          presented him with a compass and sun-glass.40
            
            To 
                  Rush
                County, Indiana, went Thomas Endicott, Jr., and there is found his will,
          dated in June of 1836, listing his wife, Mildred, his only son, James Clayton Endicott,
          and the following daughters: Nancy (Endicott) Carothers; Malinda (Endicott) Amos;
          Antoinette (Endicott) Amos; Elizabeth Ann (Endicott) Mahan; Sally Ann (Endicott) Norris;
          and Ann Mariah Endicott, who after the date of the will became the wife of Holmes
          McFatridge. The will also mentions two grand-children, Henrietta (Moore), Thomas and
          William Moore.41
            
            A John Endicott is a witness to this will, and it is known that about one hundred years
          ago 
                  Rush
                County was the home of John's children, whose names are said to
          have been: Jane Welsh, William Harvey, Jesse Thomas, Joseph Samuel, Sarah Ann, Jeremiah
          Saddler, Mariah 
                  Fenton
               , Charles Beroe, John J., and Barzilla James.42
            
            For many years it has been the custom of the Central Indiana Endicotts to hold an annual
          reunion. Mrs. George Hunt Harting (Ida Belle Endicott) recalls the days of the early
          reunions when she, with her nine children, made the trip, via the family
          carriage, from 
                  Lebanon
                to 
                  Kokomo
               , the scene of the yearly reunion. The start was made about four
          o'clock in the morning. After a night stop with relatives, the journey was
          completed on the following day. At one time Mrs. Harting invited the Endicotts to her home
          for the reunion. They had to come in family carriages, on horse-back, and in
          buggies— 
                  
                     40 These pieces are now owned by Claude E. Hensley of 
                        Oklahoma
                      City, 
                        Oklahoma
                     , a descendant of Sarah (Endicott) Mullen who was a sister of Elizabeth
              (Endicott) Miller. Information furnished by Mrs. Mott Keys of 
                        Oklahoma
                      City, 
                        Oklahoma
                     .
                  
                     41 Data furnished by Mrs. Mabel McCloskey of Camden, Indiana.
                  
                     42
                     Ibid.
                  
               
                many from some distance—and it was the
          responsibility of the hostess to feed the entire company. The Harting household consisted
          of nine children, an aged aunt and uncle and two servants. Seventy-five or eighty of the
          Endicott clan assembled for the reunion, for which elaborate preparations had been
          made—even the immense barnyard had been swept. Mrs. Harting, however, was
          apparently not a harried, exhausted hostess, for most of the guests decided that a one-day
          meeting was far too short. Some remained for two and some for three days. Chickens were
          killed and hams were baked, while the oder of fresh bread and toothsome pies filled the
            air.43
            
            To 
                  Montgomery
                County went James H. Endicott and wife, Jane (Miller) Endicott, with their
          sons; Jacob, William, Abraham, and Aaron, and their daughters, Nancy, Sarah, and Maria. It
          was from the home of Jacob that the sixteen year old Solomon S. Endicott, now of Myrtle
          Point, 
                  Oregon
               , went forth with Company F, Forty-third Indiana Volunteers. But he did not
          march alone, Jacob, his father, also followed the stars and stripes. To the Mexican War,
          this family of James H. Endicott had already given a son—Samuel.44
            
            At least three grandsons of Joseph Endicott of 
                  Posey
                County marched away with the Indiana troops in the stirring conflict of the
          eighteen sixties—Samuel, son of William, and two sons of James—Jesse
          and the young Alfred who sleeps on southern soil.45 To this list we
          can add the name of Alfred Berry Endicott, son of Samuel and Zerelda (Nisbet) Endicott and
          grandson of Moses, the Minute Man. The World War's call was answered by Byron,
          Ralph, Russell and Shirley Endicott, and it is probable that there were also other
          Endicotts who enlisted with the Indiana troops.
            The Endicotts were pioneers—"going before to prepare the way for
          others." Through the almost trackless wilderness they passed, facing privation
          and disease, Indians and wild animals, the biting cold of winter and the blazing heat of
          summer. In their wake, they left roads and settlements, schools and churches. 
                  Massachusetts
               , 
                  New Jersey
               , 
                  North Carolina
               , 
                  Virginia
               , 
                  Kentucky
               , and Indiana have felt their touch. Many of the Indiana descendants of
          Endicott pioneers have pushed 
                  
                     43 The account of the reunion was furnished by H. C. 
                        Wells
                      of 
                        Bloomington
                     , Indiana.
                  
                     44 Data furnished by Mrs. Lily Fish of Myrtle Point, 
                        Oregon
                     , and Mrs. S. L. DeLon, of Russiaville, Indiana.
                  
                     45 Reminiscences of Elizabeth Frazer (Endicott) Nisbet.
               
                westward into 
                  Missouri
               , 
                  Wisconsin
               , 
                  Kansas
               , 
                  Oregon
               , 
                  Colorado
               , 
                  Oklahoma
               , and 
                  California
               . And ever they have been mindful that their ancestor first to come to
          America, John Endicott, Governor at 
                  Salem
               , "sought not the treasurers of the mines, nor the wealth of the sea,
          but a faith's pure shrine," and ever they have sought to keep undimmed
          the luster of the jewel he found on American shores—Freedom to Worship God.
         
         
         
            "Sallie"
            By CORINNE SCHENCK DAHMEN
            
            Sallie came to us from the country before the second of my two older sisters was born and
          was an old established fact before I came into the family. She was a simple soul, with a
          big heart, who made herself one of us, sharing our joys and our sorrows, laughing and
          weeping with us for twenty years until my mother who had made the home passed on to join
          my father whom she had never ceased to mourn.
            I was barely three when my father's illness developed. It completely absorbed
          my mother. Sallie's strong arms and big heart took me in so that I never lacked
          mothering. I shared her rooms and she taught me to sew, to patch and to mend. She saw that
          I had on my overshoes when it rained; that I had on my flannels, when it was cold. She
          kept me at her side. When I was so small that I could not reach above the table, she would
          stand me on a chair to wash dishes. While she dried them, she told me stories out of her
          own life—of the country people she knew; of life on the farm; of the lover who
          had been led from her side by malicious stories; of all the trivial episodes of a quiet
          life spent within a twenty mile radius. I listened with my heart as well as my ears,
          living over every emotion with her. It was a human story, and such stories are never dull.
            However busy she might be, I was never in her way. While she cooked, she planned doll
          parties for me, letting me cook on the big stove using my doll pots and pans. She never
          made a pie or cake without making a miniature one for me, often letting me roll out the
          dough with my small rolling pin.
            She was one of the good old fashioned cooks, so from my earliest childhood I attended a
          marvelous cooking school, learning the art without knowing when or how. Sallie was not
          only a good cook, she was also a good washer and a beautiful ironer. She also taught me
          these accomplishments though I never attained to her proficiency. She worked early and
          late, and received the munificent wage of $1.50 per week and many a reprimand
          from my mother for her extravagance, especially if any of her expenditures were for
          presents for me.
            Sallie gave me my big doll, remarkable for its non-breakable head. It was very homely,
          but it's size covered every defect.  It
          could wear my baby clothes and none of my playmates had one so large. Later she added the
          cradle and chair, and finally had old Mr. Henry make me a china closet out of black
          walnut, a real treasure in that day and in this.
            The mothering which began in my babyhood, she never gave up. As I grew older, when I came
          home from school, it was always to the kitchen that I first went. Sallie shielded me from
          many a scolding, often sitting up nights to mend my dresses secretely, for I was a tomboy
          climbing fences and trees or whatever came in my path. In consequence I riddled my
          clothes.
            There was another attraction which took me to the kitchen after school. Sallie always had
          some of the dessert left from dinner put away for me, not always an easy matter for my two
          sisters, nine and one-half and four years older, respectively, also hankered after it.
          This difference in age made them feel very grand and superior to me, but when it came to
          pie, cake and pudding, they were just my age, often putting Sallie to many a cunning
          device to save the coveted treasure for me. They never found her hiding place, however,
          and when they had given up and left the kitchen, as by magic the pie, cake or pudding, not
          a morsel of which was left over, as she had just solemnly declared, appeared on the table,
          and I sat down to enjoy it at leisure.
            Sallie never had afternoons off except on Sundays and never took a vacation. But, in
          blackberry season, the family often decided that it would be nice for her to spend several
          days with her mother who lived on a few acres of rough land, producing mostly wild
          blackberries. Sallie's mother was a resolute woman of the pioneer type, who had
          married four husbands, two good, who died, and two bad, whom she quickly divorced. Through
          the four husbands she had acquired only this bit of land, a log cabin and a big family of
          girls.
            To eke out the scant living obtained from the land, the widow pieced quilts, doing fine
          work. She also made stockings for we had only hand-knit stockings in those days. During
          the winter months stockings fashioned by her knitting needle, mostly in bright red colors,
          often covered my sturdy legs. We had great faith in red in those days. Feeling that
          somehow it added to the warmth of the article, we chose red flannel underwear and
          petticoats as well as red yarn for stockings.
            
            This annual visit to her mother's place was, as hinted already, to be a sort
          of vacation for Sallie, but that she should be idle was not expected either by herself or
          by my family. Well! in time it was blackberry season! A spring-wagon was procured, the
          back part was filled with fruit jars and sugar, then with a bundle of our oldest clothes,
          some, fresh meat and groceries for a present, and our good white mare between the shafts,
          we were ready to start on our vacation, for I was always included. It was always a great
          occasion for us both. I was too small to be of any real help but Sallie made me think that
          I was all important, and she let me hold the reins and drive most of the way. We drove ten
          or twelve miles over the Mt. Sterling Pike to Fairview, where we turned off on to a dirt
          road which soon disappeared in the bed of a creek. For a mile or two we bumped up and down
          over the rock bottom of the stream at the small water-falls into deep pools. The road was
          bounded on each side by rail fences half covered with the trumpet vine and wild
          honeysuckle, the air being sweet with their fragrance.
            At last when we felt that one more bump would dislodge all our inner works, a log cabin
          would come in sight. When turning out of the creek, two big barefooted girls would come
          out to lay down the fence, there being no gate, so we could drive in.
            Here life remained almost as primitive as in pioneer days. We fell asleep on ticks filled
          with fresh straw or corn shucks, under patch-work quilts, while the thousand little
          waterfalls murmured in our ears. We ate bacon and green beans cooked in the pot swung from
          the crane over the blazing logs in the big fireplace and cornpone baked in the hot wood
          ashes on the stones before the fire.
            In the fresh morning hours dressed in our old clothes and sun bonnets, we all went out to
          the blackberry patch. When we had filled big pails with the wild fruit, we returned to the
          cabin and the canning began. In the evenings for pastime, the girls with long poles in
          their hands would go wading in the creek looking for snakes. With their poles they turned
          over the stones and as a snake darted out it would be seized near the middle by their dog,
          a mongrel with a thick muscular neck. The victim would be shaken until pieces flew in all
          directions. To keep down the snakes was quite a problem for there were not only countless
          numbers of the harmless varieties, but the  deadly
          copperhead as well. These vacations were thrilling experiences to me, and I was always
          sorry when our fruit jars were filled and we drove home again.
            Sallie was one of us and her problems were our problems. Once she decided that she needed
          a new dress—a Sunday best to wear to church. The whole family became interested
          and for days Sallie's dress became the chief topic of conversation. Samples of
          materials were brought from Grandpa's store. Mother chewed them, Miss Mary
          chewed them, we all chewed them except Sallie. She knew nothing about materials and left
          it to us to choose for her. At last a soft checked cashmere with black satin and black
          silk fringe for trimming was chosen. Miss Mary cut and fitted, and, in the course of time
          with the help of the various members of the family, it was finished. Sallie was very proud
          of it and she might well be, for it was of the best material and made in the latest style
          according to Butterick fashion books. It must have cost her many weeks wages, but it
          lasted many years. I never remember of her ever having another best dress or ever wanting
          or needing one. Our clothes and our affections wore long in those days.
         
         
         
            Manuscript Accessions—Indiana State Library
            By MILDRED C. STOLER
            
            "If I had only known a year ago that they were worth saving, I should have sent
          them to the Library instead of burning them." This or a similar statement all too
          frequently follows an inquiry as to whether or not a person has manuscripts of historical
          interest. There is something of the tragic in it at times, especially when account books
          of pre-Civil War days or letters which might have thrown light on partially explained
          historical events have been destroyed.
            The Indiana State Library has been striving for years to preserve these very important
          sources of our knowledge of Indiana history and of those leaders who have directed the
          course of that history. Its efforts have been rewarded and an appreciable beginning has
          been made. Nevertheless, manuscripts and pamphlets by the hundreds of thousands must be
          stored in attics, barns and storerooms and remain half-forgotten and almost wholly
          neglected. Many of the owners of this material either do not know that historians need it
          or do not know that the State Library is prepared to care for it. Upon the completion of
          the new Library and Historical Building next summer with its equipment especially designed
          for the care and preservation of manuscripts, it is hoped that people will realize as
          never before that they should co-operate with the state in this work of preserving the
          state's historical source material.
            During the past year about fifty persons have given their support. They have not only
          provided for the permanent preservation of manuscripts which were ofttimes treasured
          possessions, but they have made possible a fuller and more accurate understanding of the
          past. They have in some cases enabled our own and future generations to acquire a greater
          appreciation of the character and achievements of men who might otherwise never have
          attained their deserved position in the record of the past.
            One of these donors is William Dudley Foulke of 
                  Richmond
               , who is well-known for his activities in the interest of Civil Service Reform
          and the Progressive movement as well as for his writings. A biography of Lucius B. Swift,
          civil service reformer of 
                  Indianapolis
               , was recently published by Mr.  Foulke
          whose correspondence shows a wide range of interests. Mr. Foulke wrote and published
          articles about the World War (1916-1918), the League to Enforce Peace, the League of
          Nations, the Philippine Islands, woman suffrage, the World Court and the tariff. Among his
          correspondents were Albert J. Beveridge, Emma Goldman, Theodore Roosevelt, William 
                  Howard
                Taft and George Kennan, author and lecturer on Russia and the Far East. The
          originals of the Kennan, Taft and Roosevelt letters are in the Library of Congress. The
          papers cover the period from 1849 to 1931.
            The papers of Thomas R. 
                  Marshall
                (1860-1925), placed in the Library by Mrs. 
                  Marshall
               , consist chiefly of his speeches and other writings. From college days,
          represented by his argument in a debate on the question, "Are men great
          independent of circumstances?" until the close of his life, his pen was busy. He
          wrote speeches to be given at cornerstone layings, before meetings of lawyers, physicians,
          Christian Endeavor societies, and the G. A. R. Entrance into the political arena: resulted
          in articles on the social, economic and political problems which confronted him. Freedom
          from state duties and a tour of Europe brought forth from his pen his impressions of the
          countries and people visited. Shortly before his death he finished his recollections. A
          typewritten copy with interlineations made by hand is included in the collection.
            The extensive correspondence of Daniel D. Pratt, prominent northern Indiana lawyer and 
                  United States
                Senator from 1869-1875, has material of interest to students of political,
          economic and social conditions of his period. Mr. Pratt was educated in 
                  New York
                schools, came to Rising Sun, Indiana, in 1832, where he taught school for a
          short time, and then studied law under Calvin Fletcher in 
                  Indianapolis
               . Mr. Fletcher's interest in his pupil continued for many years,
          for at intervals during the next thirty-five years Pratt received letters of advice from
          his preceptor in the law. Mr. Pratt selected the new but thriving town of 
                  Logansport
                as the scene of his first efforts to practice law and through steady
          application and honest endeavor attained success. In 1850 and again in 1853, he was sent
          to the state house of representatives by his district and in 1868 was elected a member of
          the national house of representatives. Before he took his seat, however, he was chosen 
                  United States
                Senator by the state legislature. He 
          spent six years in 
                  Washington
                much against his will, for he tried to resign before he had been there a
          month. While there his reputation for honesty and integrity was enhanced in spite of the
          corruption prevalent among public officeholders. The collection (1832-1877) includes many
          letters from Charles Butler 
                  New York
               , lawyer for the 
                  Wabash
                and Erie Canal trustees, Thomas Dowling, one of the 
                  Wabash
                and Erie Canal trustees, Conrad Baker, Governor of Indiana from 1867 to 1873,
          John D. Defrees, 
                  Indianapolis
                editor and state senator, Thomas C. Slaughter, of Corydon, Gilbert A. Pierce, 
                  Valparaiso
                journalist and member of the state legislature, God-love s. Orth, 
                  United States
                Representative, Schuyler Colfax, speaker of the national house of
          representatives and vice-president, and other prominent men.
            More than a hundred letters have been added to the large Civil War collection. Those of
          Orion A. 
                  Bartholomew
                comment upon foraging expeditions, the people's attitude toward
          negro regiments and the soldiers' feeling that to steal was a privilege
          acquired with a uniform. Ransom T. Young relates his experiences with the 
                  Union
                army in 
                  Mississippi
                and 
                  Georgia
               . Photostatic copies of letters in the 
                  United States
                War Department show conditions in Camp Morton, a prison camp in 
                  Indianapolis
                during the war.
            The evacuation of Corinth, the feelings of a soldier under fire and the practice of
          pretending illness to escape unpleasant duties are described in letters in the Lucius C.
          Embree Collection. Mr. and Mrs. Lucius C. Embree presented to the Library a large group of
          the papers of Mr. Embree and earlier members of the Embree and Robb families, both
          pioneers in Indiana. Mr. Embree was a widely known and highly esteemed attorney of 
                  Princeton
               , Indiana. Besides the Civil War letters already mentioned, there are two
          bills of sale for slaves in 
                  Kentucky
                and 
                  Tennessee
                in 1800 and 1823, respectively, and an interesting letter by Henry Robb
          telling the story of his brother David's life from his birth in 
                  Ireland
                to his removal to Indiana, including a story of hunting trips along the
            Ohio River and his capture by pirates. David Robb was later a
          member of the Council of Indiana Territory, of the constitutional convention of 1816 and
          of the state legislature. Another letter of interest was written by David Robb to Judge
          Elisha Embree in 1833 from LaPorte in which the heavy immigration  and rising land values are mentioned. Only a small portion of
          the collection has been filed but that part is ready for use.
            The papers of Nathaniel Preston, placed in the Library by Mrs. E. V. Smith, include ten
          account books (1834-1871). Mr. Preston arrived in 
                  Terre Haute
                in 1836. He taught school for a year and then began work in the 
                  Terre Haute
                branch of the State Bank. His carefully kept accounts cover tuition received
          from school pupils, household expenditures and business accounts. The collection contains
          papers of later members of the family and dates from 1821 to 1918. It is chiefly valuable
          for data on economic conditions but there is some material on political questions of the
          decade following 1838 and on certain phases of social history.
            Nine letter books and many loose letters of John Coburn were presented by Mr. Schuyler
          Haas, formerly a law partner of Mr. Coburn. This collection (1850-1904) will be useful in
          the study of economic conditions and of the life of General Coburn.
            Among Judge W. W. Thornton's papers, presented by Mrs. Thornton, are letters
          criticizing the fee system for paying prosecuting attorneys (1886), discussing his race
          for nomination as supreme court reporter in 1888 and showing the conservative opinion
          concerning the Spanish-American War. Mr. Thornton was judge of the superior court, dean of
          the Benjamin 
                  Harrison
                Law School and a writer on legal subjects. 
            The manuscript autobiography of Rev. Eli P. Farmer, Methodist circuit rider, who resided
          for many years in or near 
                  Bloomington
               , Indiana, throws light on the hardships and successes of a pioneer preacher.
          His experiences in the War of 1812, in politics from 1835 to 1845, and with frontier
          rowdies are interesting.
            Mrs. Grace Julian Clarke added to the collection of her father's papers which
          she had previously presented three notebooks, kept by George W. Julian in 1848-1849 and
          1858 for use in political campaigns, and copies of correspondence relating to the
          publication of his Life of Joshua R. Giddings.
            
            Mrs. Lucius B. Swift presented four diaries (1875-1897) recording her
          husband's experiences while superintendent of schools in LaPorte and several
          meetings held in the interest of civil service reform. A large group of Mr.
          Swift's papers was received last year.
         
         
         
            Document
            By SPRING-WAGON TO MISSOURI
          AND KANSAS
            
            DIARY OF MARK S. DAVIS
            
            Foreword
            It was in the spring of 1868 that Mark S. Davis, unmarried, his brother, H. P. Davis, a 
                  Quaker
                preacher, Wilson Snyder and 
                  Elwood
                D. Jones,1 left the Davis home near 
                  Wabash
               , Indiana, in a spring-wagon drawn by two horses. They were starting on an
          overland journey to State Line City, a village on the 
                  Missouri
               -
                  Kansas
                line in southwestern 
                  Missouri
               . The line of travel may easily be traced by anyone who reads the diary kept
          during the trip by Mark Davis. He says very little about the other members of the party,
          and very little about the horses that furnished the motive power. The four men surely were
          unusually healthful as well as uncomplaining. The horses must have been young, in fine
          condition and of splendid mettle, considering the nature of the roads, the length of the
          journey and the rate of travel.
            Mark Davis was interested in almost everything encountered along the way. He possessed a
          natural curiosity and sought information at every opportunity. The diary reveals the vast
          difference between the Middle West of 1868 and that of today. The diarist wrote much of
          the record of each day very soon after events transpired or impressions were received. The
          little book in which the entries were made is one with card-board covers, seven by two and
          one-half inches. The record, which fills almost a hundred pages, was written with a lead
          pencil and is easily read. Few sentences begin with a capital or close with a period. The
          trip occupied a month, with a very few days on which little or no headway was made. At the
          end of the journey of over seven hundred miles, the travelers were welcomed by relatives
          and friends. The diarist states in one of his late entries that he was nearly one thousand
            
                  
                     1 These men were undoubtedly all young yet. Mark S. Davis, the
              diarist, could not have been much beyond twenty years of age, as he had been a student
              in the Raisin Valley Seminary the previous year. H. P. Davis was an older brother of
              Mark, and the other young men were from the same Indiana neighborhood. All four were
              evidently from 
                        Quaker
                      families. The vehicle used was a light wagon, with springs under each end
              of the box or bed. Such was called a spring-wagon. The one used in this journey was
              equipped with some sort of top, as in one instance the diarist mentions holding the
              curtains together to keep out the rain. 
                        Spring
                     -wagons were commonly without tops leaving the occupants of the seats
              exposed to sun, wind or rain. Occasionally the name "buggy" was
              applied to such a vehicle, especially if equipped with a top.
               
                miles from home. Land claims were located in the
          southeastern county of 
                  Kansas
                (Cherokee) by members of the party.
            [THE DIARY]
            
               
                  
                     
                        Tuesday May 12th, 1868
                        Set out this morning at ten O clock bound for 
                              Missouri
                            t 
                              Kansas
                            in spring wagon in company with H. P. Davis, Wilson Snyder E [
                              Elwood
                           ] D. Jones Bidding farewell to our friends & relatives some of
                  whom felt sorry at our departure & wished us a safe & happy
                  journey & a peaceful return home again.
                        Pursued our Journey passing through Peru & stopped 3 miles west and
                  stayed all night with our cousin Johnston Davis he is a cripple L a very clever
                  and social man were made welcome while there
                        Wednesday May 13th, 1868.
                        Raining this morning so we concluded to stay with Mr. Davis another day as the
                  roads are bad & prospect of raining all day Passed the time off very
                  pleasantly here in social conversation amusing games such as [Mosses2] Domino &c read some in the Bible and other books took a game of
                  stone throwing to see who was best Mr. Davis resides 18 miles from 
                              Wabash
                            3 miles west of Peru. Peru is near the size of 
                              Wabash
                            being about 3 thousand inhabitants perhaps a little more than that.
                        Thursday, May 14th
                        Stayed at Johnston Davises last night raining this morning a little very cloudy
                  Started out on our journey afresh the roads being so muddy three of us had to walk
                  most of the time. Passed near by Hooversville 6 miles East of 
                              Logansport
                            Came to 
                              Logansport
                            got some repairing done some bills printed3
                  & went to Fetters Gallery Saw some beautiful pictures of all kings [kinds]
                  C styles the scenery of which was equal to any in any of our large cities traveled
                  17 miles today
                        Friday May 16th 1868
                        Stayed last night [just out of 
                              Logansport
                           ] & slept in a barn a very convenient place went back to 
                              Logansport
                            this morning got our bills and some repairing done Left Logan about 4
                  Oclock this evening proceeded down the South side of the 
                              Wabash
                            river The road being very rough and muddy we concluded to pitch our
                  tent which we did for the first time about 7 miles west of 
                              Logansport
                            the land good but not at all attractive to those who observe it
                        Saturday May 16 1868
                        We pitched our tent last night for the first time on the bank of the 
                              Wabash
                            river Rained some during the night which rendered camp life not so
                  agreeable as we had expected though it has since been pleasant proceeded down the
                  river to Delphi a town of about 3 thousand inhabitants 
                              
                                 2 The word seems to be Masses, hut
                      could be Muses. The intention seems to have been to mention
                      two games, but what game was indicated by Mosses is not clear.
                              
                                 3 The young men carried a magic-lantern along
                      expecting to give entertainments at 
                                    various places
                                 . The bills which they had printed at 
                                    Logansport
                                  were to be distributed to advertise the show at any place,
                      following a decision to give a performance.
                           
                            where we fed for noon after leaving Delphi we
                  broke our wagon wheel though not so but what it stood up passed through Buck Creek
                  camped two miles west of B. C.
                        Sunday May 17th
                        Camped last night on a beautiful grassy spot near a stream which afforded plenty
                  of water for us & horses On account of our wheel being broken we remained
                  here over Sunday. Passed the time pleasantly Wilson [Snyder] & I went out
                  hunting Wilson shot a hawk I saw nothing to shoot after which 
                              Elwood
                            [E. D. Jones] took the gun & shot three squirrels which
                  afforded all we could eat for supper Bought some potatoes of a man near by which
                  we roasted and had a good supper
                        Monday May 18
                        We leave behind us this morning the beautiful camping ground of Saturday night
                  and Sunday night & again renew our journey The weather being pleasant we
                  all feel somewhat enlivened Arrived at 
                              Lafayette
                            about 9 Oclock this morning when we got our wheel filled at a cost of
                  5 dollars Walked about the city some hours bought some provisions I got my watch
                  fixed at a cost of $1.00 Bought some peanuts and eat them on the corner
                  of the street to [too] like a lot of greenhorns & we supposed the
                  Lafayetteites thought we had never seen any before. Left this city about noon
                  proceeded on down not far from the 
                              Wabash
                            river to a creek where I shot two quails Went a mile or two further
                  & 
                              Elwood
                            shot one which made all the game we got today Came to West Point a
                  distance of 10 miles from 
                              Lafayette
                            in population about 400 Gave an entertainment Receipts 4.35 Band
                  played for us A man tied & got loose again Traveled 18 miles
                        Tuesday May 19th
                        Camped last night about two miles west of West Point Arrived at Attica a distance
                  of 20 miles from 
                              Lafayette
                            at about noon population about 2500 Bought some provisions &
                  passed through Williamsport County Seat of 
                              Warren
                            Co where I bought this book4 population about
                  1000 Passed on through West 
                              Lebanon
                            a little village of about 6 hundred inhabitants situated at about 9
                  miles from Attica traveled about 30 miles today
                        Wednesday May 20th
                        We left behind us this morning the most beautiful camping ground that we have yet
                  enjoyed pleasant time here this was the last night we stayed in Ind. Proceeded on
                  West & passed on west this morning & crossed the line into 
                              Ill
                            at about 9 Oclock Came to Danville County Seat of 
                              Vermillion
                            Co. 10 miles from the line Population 3 thousand passed through two
                  other places the inhabitants of which were miners there being a coal mine of value
                  here those people were formerly from 
                              Belgium
                            The next town was fairmount a village of 5 or 6 hundred inhabitants
                  the country we passed through this afternoon was about all 
                              
                                 4 The following appears on the fly-leaf of the little
                      book in which the diarist kept his record: "M. S. Davies book Bought
                      at Williamsport May 19th 1868 while on his road to 
                                    Missouri
                                  & 
                                    Kansas
                                 ."
                           
                            prairie the country around 
                              Fairmount
                            was the most beautiful that my eyes ever beheld looking as I could on
                  every hand and behold the wide extended plain with now & then a farm
                  & house with beautiful green foliage Traveled about 30 miles today
                        Thursday May 21st
                        Yesterday eve we passed a small town by the name of Catlin Population 400 last
                  night we camped on the bank of Saltfork Creek a beautiful stream with timber on
                  each side of its Banks as is usually the case along water courses in Ill. Came to
                  a little village by the name of St. Joe in St. Joe County got two shoes put on our
                  horses Stoped a little west and fed for noon Weather pleasant but roads
                  desperately muddy passed over the worst road today that we have at all.
                        Friday May 22, 1868
                        Last night we gave an entertainment at a schoolhouse two miles East of Urbanna
                  Receipts $3.20 after which we came west one mile and camped for the
                  night just opposite the 
                              Champaign
                            County poor house Came to Urbanna this morning an old town where we
                  saw the first street car in the State Population 2000 Bought some provisions
                  journeyed west one mile and came to 
                              Champaign
                            City Population 4 thousand where we beheld the State University. this
                  is a magnificant building 5 stories high besides the basement story beautifully
                  adapted for the purpose for which it was built The above named towns are only one
                  mile apart Urbanna the County seat of 
                              Champaign
                            County but 
                              Champaign
                            City is about twice as large. We left timber this morning did not see
                  anymore until about night passing west we saw [some timber] on the prairie We saw
                  two large wild Ducks one 
                              Prairie
                            Chicken El-wood shot and crippled the Chicken but did not get it This
                  was the first Chicken that we had seen Traveled 26 miles to day
                        Saturday May 23 1868
                        This morning we leave behind us the beautiful camping ground of last night but
                  not alone we were accompanied by a man from 
                              Ohio
                            & one from Peru [Ind.] in company with their families The
                  latter we previously helped out of a mud hole by which act we had formed his
                  acquaintance learned his place of destination & gained his confidence so
                  much that he expressed a desire to travel with us. This camp by common concent was
                  named Camp Griffith in honor of the family who fir& pitched their tent or
                  in other words first founded it Nineteen emigrants jovial souls anyone could not
                  expect anything else but a social happy time after visiting each others tents
                  enterchanging sentiments freely we all retired for the night at the hour of ten
                  this camps was on the banks of the Sangamon River and within 1/2 mile of
                  Monticello County Seat of Piat County around which place is beautiful &
                  rich 
                              Prairie
                            & timber well calculated to keep up and increase the town
                  Population of this place about 7 hundred this morning we pass through the edge of
                  this place and leave it to our left Now I will give a list of the distances of the
                  different towns since crossing the line distance from the line to Danville Ill. 10
                  miles from Danville to Urbanna 35 miles from Ur  banna to Monticello 25 miles Leaving Monticello we passed through a small but
                  beautiful prairie after which we struck timber and remained in it all day the
                  timber is generally low and bushy interspersed with underbrush a good portion of
                  which is Hazel Traveled 17 m
                        Sunday May 24th
                        This beautiful sabbath morning finds us up & stirring at an early hour
                  but not as usual fixing and making preparations for Sabbath School and meeting but
                  in the interior of Ill. fixing and making preparations for the furtherance 08 our
                  journey before us We leave the camp this morning at six where we had remained
                  since yesterday at noon. Passing on mostly through timber we arrived at 
                              Decatur
                            at about 3 Oclock at a distance of 26 miles from Monticello This is a
                  beautiful city & has a population of 8 thousand inhabitants The country
                  around 
                              Decatur
                            appears to be the longest settled of any that we have yet seen as the
                  farms are generally well improved good buildings & orchards This is the
                  county east of Macon County & place which the citizens might well be proud
                  of Land valued at from 60 to 100 dollars. Wages from 20 to 25 dollars per month
                  Stopping at a Bakery the proprietor of which was a German & who had lately
                  been driven from 
                              Tennessee
                            on account of his 
                              Union
                            Principles finding him to be a very clever man after conversing with
                  him freely we called for our breakfasts which we ate with avidity Procuring some
                  provisions we journeyed on towards 
                              Springfield
                            after traveling about 6 miles west having passed through a beautiful
                  & rich well improved prairie perhaps owned by speculators where we stopped
                  for noon looking on every hand we could see cattle grazing which presented to us a
                  very beautiful appearance After taking refreshments & letting our horses
                  graze for about two hours we pursued our journey westward & passed through
                  some of the most beautiful country that I ever saw taking our course a little to
                  the left of a little town by the name of Illiopolis which about four years since
                  was extremely small but now numbers about 7 hundred inhabitants At about 3 Oclock
                  as it was Sunday & we had not attended a meeting yet which we usually do
                  we called on Rev. H. P. Davis for a sermon which call he obeyed & which
                  service had a most solemnizing influence
                        Passing on until we came within 16 miles of the capital of Ill. as it was about
                  night we concluded to stop for the ensuing night pitching; our tent on a most
                  beautiful spot with a running stream near by commenced making preparations for
                  supper having a duck which E. D. J. had previously shot & one quail which
                  I shot at the Camp made all the meat we had for supper We traveled faster this day
                  than we have any other day making a distance of 35 miles this was the most
                  pleasant days journey that we have yet made The country so nice and weather so
                  beautiful could not have been otherwise
                        Monday May 25 1868
                        This morning finds us up & stirring at an early hour we could leave this
                  camp rather reluctantly were it not for the eagerness to see  the capital of this noble state as it [camp site] is
                  such a beautiful one situated on a beautiful elevated spot only two miles east of
                  a little village by the name of Mechanicsburg which we passed through at about
                  5:30 A. M. Population about 3 hundred 16 miles from our camping ground to the
                  capital Nothing worthy of noting until we reached the city which was about ten
                  Oclock This city is nothing more remarkable than many of her sister states can
                  boast of Many beautiful edifices are seen on every hand Passing through the city
                  the first thing that attracted our attention that was of much [interest] was the
                  State house which was a beautiful building much more so than that of Ind. the
                  state to which I belong We were somewhat surprised to find the streets so dirty
                  this much destroyed the beauty of it. But on inquiry we found that the city had
                  been improved so fast that they had not yet had time to beautify them [streets] as
                  they hoped soon to do Clouds of dust could at entervals be seen on windy days
                  passing through them The object which claimed our attention most after arriving in
                  the city was to see the monument of our much lamented President which upon inquiry
                  we found to be in Oak Ridge Cemetery about one & a half miles north of 
                              Springfield
                            In a short time our little company could have been seen wending our
                  way to it but just as we had got one mile from the city our attention was
                  attraoted to the waterworks or great Reservoir of the city Upon approaching it we
                  found it to be a round elevated pool Walking up the steps we could see the water
                  inside which [the reservoir] was lined with smooth stones the circumference of
                  this place was perhaps about % of a mile while in this elevated position we could
                  see over a great portion of the city On making inquiry about the working of this
                  pool we learned that the water [was] forced into the Reservoir through pipes by an
                  engine which was situated at a distance of 5 miles on the Sangamon River. from
                  this Reservoir was a large pipe extending to the city & other smaller ones
                  leading into it by which process the city receives its water The whole acting
                  precisely on the same principle as an Altesian well After observing this we made
                  for the Cemetery [through] the gate we rode slowly along About the first thing
                  that attracted our attention was a large Brick Vault to our left on a slight
                  elevation in this vault is the remains of President 
                              Lincoln
                            with nothing to show anyone except the word 
                              Lincoln
                            carved in solid marble. The vault is made tight & no one is
                  allowed to enter it it is called the tomb of 
                              Lincoln
                            his two sons having been placed one on each side of him at the time
                  of his Deposit While beholding the vault which contained the remains of our late
                  lamented President my mind was called back to the time when this nation was panic
                  stricken on account of the assassination of the President of these 
                              United States
                            & when this nation was draped in mourning for the space of 60
                  days Never since the days of 
                              Washington
                            was there a President more honored than was 
                              Lincoln
                            nor more deeply lamented 
                        There will be perhaps this summer a monument erected in honor of him the cost of
                  which is not known, but it is supposed that it will cost $200 000
                  Leaving this place with sad hearts we wended our way slowly  through the Cemetery passing many very beautiful
                  monuments around which were growing very nice sedar trees interspersed with
                  beautiful flowers & a variety of natural green foliage this cemetery is
                  kept in good order presents to the eye about as beautiful an appearance as any I
                  ever saw which perhaps is not a few passing around to the east we saw elevated to
                  a bush these words please call and register your names a house being near
                  & soon being kept especially for the public we obeyed the call Registered
                  our names in a large book where thousands before us from all parts of the world
                  had done on the table was situated the box containing the 
                              Lincoln
                            Monument fund into this each one of us placed a small contribution
                  for the erection of a Monument On one corner of the table was placed a Stereoscope
                  with many pictures of various kinds among them 
                              Lincoln
                           's Residence, Dog, Horse, family &c these we placed
                  in the instrument which magnified them and made them look very beautiful After
                  prospecting for some time we returned again to the city from whence we came
                        Shipped our box of goods to Sedalie Mo. passed around to the south of the City
                  where we saw the Residence of 
                              Lincoln
                            which I at once knew from its Photo Going through the gate up the
                  steps ringing the doolrbell we were met at the door by Mrs. Wood the lady of the
                  house who very kindly invited us in showed us the various departments Saw his
                  table beadsteads, book case &c & registered our names in a book at
                  the stand where he formerly done his writing saw a picture of his blood which was
                  spilled on the dress of the Actress Miss Laura Keene at the time of his
                  assassination in Ford's Theater on the eve of April 14 1865 on account
                  of her springing into his pew and supporting his head at this terrible crisis
                  After looking around for some time and conversing freely we passed from the house
                  to the south west We plucked some leaves from a tree which had been planted by Mr. 
                              Lincoln
                           's own hands Thanking the Lady for her kindness got in our
                  buggy [spring-wagon] & bidding farewell to the city which retained us
                  about 6 hours took a southwesterly direction towards 
                              Jacksonville
                            in a few minutes could be seen behind us the tall steeples toweling
                  as it were almost to the skies Nothing mostly of note occurred on our way today
                  Camped in a beautiful Grove about 7 miles [from] the city Traveled about 25 m.
                        Tuesday May 26 ′68
                        This morning the weather is cloudy rained last night & this morning just
                  before we started passed through some of the most beautiful & rich country
                  that we have yet seen Nothing worthy of note until we came to 
                              Jacksonville
                            County Seat of 
                              Morgan
                            County here we saw some of the richest country that this world
                  affords if there is a place which might be termed the garden of Eden perhaps this
                  would be it People here are blessed with abundance of this worlds goods splendid
                  mops in fact everything that heart could wish we arrived at this place [
                              Jacksonville
                           ] at about 4 Oclock Population some 10 or 12 thousand of all the
                  cities I ever visited this is the most pleasantly situated has more benevolent
                  institutions to its size than any city in the State The Blind  Insane Deaf & Dumb Asylums are all situated
                  here besides a number of colleges such as The 
                              Illinois
                            College which was burned down but since rebuilt in the same place
                  Female College Methodist College & the Public schools We visited none of
                  these institutions except The Blind & Deaf & Dumb Asylum The first
                  thing that attracted our attention on entering the city limits was the Blind
                  Asylum This was an extremely large and handsome building 5 stories high passing up
                  the steps which were of themselves beautiful wringing the doorbell we were met by
                  a lady whose business it is to show the visitors the house after being invited to
                  pass in we were taken through the various departments of this building we were
                  taken into the room where they sing their evening hymns just before dismissing
                  here we saw some 60 or 70 blind students of both sexes both children and those
                  older in years all taking a part in the hymn upon inquiry I found that there were
                  then 85 students attending school these blind students graduate receive their
                  diplomas the same as at other colleges The time which it takes to completed here
                  is about 5 years Our guide took us into an inside room & one of the blind
                  boys played us some very good music & a blind young lady got the bible
                  & read us a part of a chapter in the Bible Many of them were ingaged in
                  making Bead baskets cushions flowers &c After taking particular notice
                  [of] the many curiosities in this room where could be seen all kinds of Bead
                  & needle work all of which were for sale & which profits went to
                  the blind person who made the article sold 
                              Elwood
                            & I bought each of us a beautiful little bead combcase In
                  commemoration of the Blind
                        Thanking the Lady for her kindness we passed down the steps drove through the
                  city noticing many beautiful residences & stores, to the left we saw the
                  Female College & a little farther down the public school building both
                  very large & apparently well adapted for the purpose for which they were
                  built. In the Southwestern part of the city could be seen the 
                              Illinois
                            College & almost opposite this was situated the Deaf
                  & dumb Asylum. This is an extremely large Brick building with many brick
                  additions there being about 250 students & it from appearance capable of
                  accommodating many more Noting more remarkable at this college than at many other
                  large ones The Insane Asylum being near by but did not have! time to visit it
                  journeyed two miles west got lodging in a barn for the night. Traveled 30 miles
                  today.
                        Wednesday May 27 ′68
                        This morning we arose feeling well satisfied with our night's lodging,
                  it being hay instead of the solid earth. The man who so liberally threw his barn
                  doors open for us was an Englishman owns about 4 hundreds acres of land worth 100
                  dollars per acre we were soon journeying westward Nothing more than usual worthy
                  of note passed through a little town by the name of Exodus in 
                              Scott
                            County Population about 200 Stopping a little East of Naples we fed
                  for noon cooking our squirrel & quail for dinner After dinner we drove to
                  the banks of the 
                              Illinois
                            River where is situated the town of Naples Population 500 Naples is
                  situated 21 miles from 
                              Jacksonville
                            from 
                              Jacksonville
                            to 
                              Springfield
                            is 35 miles  from 
                              Springfield
                            to 
                              Decatur
                            40 miles We stayed in Naples some time all of which time I remained
                  in the buggy writing in this book
                        At about 5 Oclock we were informed by the sound of the whistle that the time had
                  arrived for the departure of the boat so we drove on and in a short time could
                  have been seen plowing down the River which had become very much swollen on
                  account of the late rain being now over a mile wide Crossed this stream [landing]
                  at the opposite bank about, 5 miles farther down the river were about one hour in
                  crossing
                        This time I passed off as pleasantly as I knew how some of the boys wrote the
                  time away but I spent it in conversing with some young ladies passing up and down
                  the boat got into a little dugout which was attached to the boat & rode a
                  little while in this way the hour was soon gone. from here we took the Hannibal
                  Road which lead us in a southwesterly direction passing through a town by the name
                  of Griggsville in Pikes [
                              Pike
                           ] County Population 1,600 bought some crackers came one mile west
                  & camped for the night by road side Traveled 29 miles this day retired at
                  10 for the night
                        Thursday May 28 ′68
                        This morning I got up fed the horses & got breakfast & routed the
                  boys out of bed eat our breakfast and started westward meeting many teams hauling
                  off their grain Passed through 
                              New Salem
                            in Pikes County Pittsfield being the county ceit Population 200 About
                  noon there came up a terrible storm being near a barn we got permission to drive
                  in our team by which means we were sheltered from the storm which lasted all the
                  afternoon so much so that we remained over night
                        Friday May 29th
                        We resume our journey this morning after taking breakfast having remained in the
                  barn since yesterday noon. Cold this forenoon so much so that we retain our
                  overcoats & shalls [shawls] very muddy today the country is still rich but
                  more hilly than usual for this state. passed through Barry in 
                              Pike
                            County Population 1,600 where he oiled our wagon & were told
                  that this county was exempt from indictment for shooting Game because it is so
                  plenty here We were told that on nearing the 
                              Mississippi
                            we would find plenty of all kinds of game traveling west about 6
                  miles we came to Kinderhook Population 400 Here we talked of giving an exhibition
                  tonight but gave up the idea. went about 2 miles west of this place &
                  stopped & fed by the side of the road where I am now writing these lines
                  12 miles from the Miss. River after resting about an hour we resume our journey
                  towards the Miss. noticing on our right the high bluffs in which are beautiful
                  building stone the first that we have seen in Ill & the country is much
                  more hilly on one road I shot a quail & 
                              Elwood
                            shot a fish about 2 feet lone & weighs some 6 or 7 lbs which
                  we expect to have for dinner
                        Six Oclock We are now on the Steam Boat out on the great Miss River the longest
                  river in the world I go up in the upper deck & there I can see for miles
                  around the ship serging the waves as it plows its way across just 7 minutes from
                  the time we started in we are landed in the 
                  opposite shore in 
                              Missouri
                            in the beautiful city of Hannibal the river where we crossed is about
                  % mile wide after landing we passed up in the interior of the city Population of
                  which is about 10 thousand the appearance we liked much better than we expected
                  the people seemed very intelligent Saw more good looking white girls here than at
                  any town that we passed, but we may say here that we saw more Darkies at this
                  place than we have seen in all our travels since leaving home Hannibal is in 
                              Marion
                            County Mo. Buying some provisions we take a westerly direction and
                  stop about 2 miles from the city in a creek bottom feasted tonight on Bread
                  & crackers Fish Quail Coffee Sugar and Potatoes which made us a rich
                  supper After writing awhile in our day books we retire for the night at about 10
                  Oclock. I am now sitting on a bridge by the side of the Hannibal 
                              Pike
                            writing Traveled 25 miles today from Naples to Hannibal or [beyond]
                  the Miss. R. two m.
                        Saturday May 30 ′68
                        After taking breakfast this morning we resume our journey last night being the
                  first night that we camped in Mo. passed through Hi[y]desburg it being so small
                  that we did not know it until we had gone about 5 miles beyond it I shot a quail
                  today on our road we bought 1 bushel of corn of a man he said that the late war
                  had cost him about 15,000 dollars said he was a 
                              Union
                            man though he once held slaves we are informed that there are but few 
                              Union
                            men in this County & that if the rebels only had the power
                  they would be as hostile as they ever were & that there is a hatred
                  existing between the two great parties that will never be overcome but then let
                  there ever be another Rebellion they will spit it out The country through which we
                  traveled today is very thinly settled & was all owned by planters who held
                  slaves before the Emancipation proclamation it is said if a man does not have as
                  much as a thousand acres of land here he is not counted rich not many Darkies in
                  the country now they have almost all gone to the towns along the River This
                  country as far as I can see looks very much dillapidated here and there an old
                  farm house many of the fields having grown up in grass the farms being so large
                  that since their slaves have been freed they [the owners] can not of themselves
                  till all of the ground The country we passed through today seems not at all
                  attractive part of it being very hilly & the prairies not very rich The
                  towns we passed through today are just small ones would hardly know them if not
                  told Traveled 25 miles today
                        Sunday May 31 1868
                        This morning after feasting on quail which we had the day before shot potatoes
                  crackers Bread Sugar Coffee &c persue our course though not at an early
                  hour as usual it being the Sabbath and we wished to let our horses rest started
                  about 9 oclock the country presenting about the same appearance as yesterday which
                  none of us thought very beautiful mostly timbered country today & hilly
                  Since leaving Hannibal we passed through several little towns none of them of any
                  force one would hardly know he was in town if he was not told we reached 
                              Paris
                            about noon county seat of 
                              Monroe
                            county This is considered here a very large place  from the description we supposed it had about 10
                  thousand inhabitants but it has only about a thousand one half of these from what
                  we could see are darkies some of whom were dressed up in their silk equal to any
                  white persons others not so fine Bought some provisions and came west on the way
                  stopped for noon near by a beautiful residence where were quite a number of young
                  ladies & quite a few Gentlemen spending their Sabbath They seemed to be
                  enjoying themselves finely I only wished that I could be with them sharing their
                  sport Young men from the fact of having been killed in the army are very scarce
                  here Anyone in passing through Mo. who is a close observer of faces can but notice
                  the Beauty & Politness of the Ladies we have seen more good looking women
                  [in] 
                              Missouri
                            than in all our travels before we noted 
                              Ill
                            for their homely women and Mo for its good looking ones passing on we
                  come to a train of emmigrants some 6 or 8 teams going to Neutral city 
                              Kansas
                            near where we are going after having a good time talking with them
                  about one hour we came west about 4 miles & camped for the night on the
                  banks of a beautiful stream which afforded plenty of water for our horses
                  & in which Wilson & I bathed its bottom being solid rock This is
                  the first we had seen of Locusts I never having seen any before any where They
                  abound in great numbers here in certain localities germinate in the ground pass
                  out of it, shed their skin or enclosure and fly off. they resemble a large horse
                  fly though much larger and make a noise somewhat like frogs in unison I thought
                  the sound was that of frogs until I was better informed From the fact that we are
                  in Rebel land and that there are horse thieves lurking about we thought best to
                  watch our horses which we did for the first time Traveled 17 miles
                        Monday June 1st 1868
                        This morning being the first day of the month we are astir at an early hour
                  Breakfast over we leave the camp between 5 and 6 Pass through Middle Grove
                  Population about 200 buildings look old and dilapidated here we bought some corn
                  for our horses passed through a farm today which we supposed had been made
                  desolate in consequence of the late war there being no buildings or fences on it.
                  The country we passed through today is more beautiful than any we have yet seen in
                  this state Prairies are not so rich as those of 
                              Ill
                            nor so beautiful After leaving M Grove we were overtaken by a storm
                  but got permission to drive in a shelter which protected us from the storm which
                  lasted some hours here we fed for noon & here I write these lines After
                  leaving this place going west about 10 miles we came to Renick Population 5
                  hundred where Wilson & I gave an Exhibition took in $8.75 very
                  good & civil crowd after which came west about 3 miles & camped in
                  a mans woods pasture Traveled today about 25 miles feeling very much fatigued We
                  retired about 11 oclock
                        Tuesday June 2nd
                        This morning we leave behind us the very beautiful grove in which we camped
                  through mistake we find ourselves on the wrong road though learn that we can
                  arrive at our destination on this road by going about 2 miles out of our way The
                  road we traveled today is very rough  and hilly
                  & in consequence of So much rain very muddy after traveling about 8 miles
                  we stopped & fed for noon cooked 3 quails which 
                              Elwood
                            Wilson & I Shot this morning Our horses being tired we stop
                  about 3 miles from 
                              Fayette
                            county ceit of 
                              Howard
                            County & let them Rest & graze after which came west
                  about 1 mile and stopped under a mans shed as it looked very much like rain
                  & we did not wish to get wet. This man once held slaves but were coaxed
                  off by the 
                              Union
                            Soldiers during the war. we saw their huts in which they lived he
                  also had several Darkies living with him whom he pays perhaps a small amount for
                  their services we imagined that these people did not like Northern people as the
                  old woman treated us rather coolly the balance of the family were clever. Trav. 18
                  miles
                        Wednesday June 3rd 1868
                        We rested last night very well under the old Rebels shed Slept in his old
                  fashioned Carolina wagon bed which was of a canoe shape It did not rain last night
                  as we expected Did not start very early this morning came into 
                              Fayette
                            county seat of 
                              Howard
                            Co. about 11 oclock bought some Provisions looked around some time
                  & started out we expected to see a large city here [
                              Fayette
                           ] as we had been told in solid earnest that its Population was about
                  20,000 but it is not at most more more than 800 but we could account for this to
                  some extent a very small village is known here a great ways and people judge its
                  Population by the Reputation it has. Came west of 
                              Fayette
                            about 2 miles where we stopped for noon & where I am now
                  writing There are two very large Methodist College buildings in 
                              Fayette
                            but in consequence of the late war these are not enough students to
                  sustain both so one is idle & the other has about 75 students We passed a
                  widow Ladies house today which had been burnt by the 
                              Union
                            soldiers because she, harbored Bushwhackers Trav. 12 m
                        Thursday June 4th 1868
                        Last night we gave an Exhibition in a school house 2 miles from 
                              Franklin
                            Receits N.F.F. By request of the Director Col. Stone a Rebel Col. in
                  the southern army, the Darkeys were not admitted This shows the prejudice there is
                  existing in the southern states against the Negro Though they love to have them
                  live on their plantsutions & do the drudge work yet they will not allow
                  them sit in church or go to school with them After this we came west about 1 mile
                  & camped for the night stretched our tent by the road side in a few
                  minutes there came up the most terrific storm that I ever witnessed blowed down
                  our tent so that we had to flee to the wagon for protection & this did not
                  afford complete shelter for us but by holding the curtains with ou rhands we were
                  enabled to shield [from] the most of the storm not sufficient however to prevent
                  us from getting wet [and] our things also In the morning we passed through 
                              Franklin
                            quite a small place clrossing the 
                              Missouri
                            river over in Boon-ville it being 2 miles from 
                              Franklin
                            The river where we crossed is near a mile wide crossed on the Birdie
                  Brent this being the name of the boat this boat was said to be the finest on the
                  Mo river The population of Boonville is said to be 5 thousand, but we think that
                  there are not more  than 3 thousand and quite a
                  number of these are blacks we took dinner today at Dr. Mileses had peen Peas which
                  was the first that we had seen ate some cherries & other vegetables which
                  were a rarity to us northern folks Visited a colored school of about 190 students
                  a very interesting school There was a battle ground out of the city 1/2 mile where
                  200 Rebels were killed but had not time to go and see it
                        Friday June 5th 1868
                        We left Boonville late last Eve traveled west about 5 miles as it looked like
                  rain we procured a barn & stopped we found here a strong 
                              Union
                            man & from what we could see a very clever fellow said he had
                  8 horses stolen from him during the war had a large amount of harvesting to do
                  & would engage us & give us as much as any one else would which he
                  thought would not be less than 2.50 & may be 3.00 per day Started very
                  late this morning about 9 oclock passed through some very nice country to day
                  & some very poor country rained some today at different times which makes
                  the roads very muddy & the traveling very unpleasant saw several teams
                  coming back from 
                              Missouri
                            & 
                              Kansas
                            but could not get to talk with any of them as they, we thought felt
                  Boared over their unsuccessful trip traveled till 6 oclock when we procured a barn
                  for the night fed our horses roasted some Potatoes dressed our quails which Wils
                  [Wilson Snyder] & I shot & prepared for the night Traveled 22
                  miles today roads muddy
                        Saturday June 6th
                        Last night we stopped about 8 miles from Sedalia came in this morning about 9
                  Oclock and shot a quail on our road I am now sitting on a large stone writing this
                  is a beautiful place Population 5 thousand This is a business place as much as any
                  I have seen situated on an elvated prairie it presents in connection with the
                  surrounding country a beautiful appearance passing west we came entirely out of
                  sight of timber After we had come 10 miles Southwest of Sedalia we could look back
                  & see it very plainly I had seen no place in 
                              Missouri
                            that I would like to live until I came here but this place I am
                  certain would be desirable. This city is the county seat of Pettis county. We left
                  this place about 4 oclock traveling in a southwesterly direction passing through
                  prairie most beautiful to behold until we were overtaken by the shades of night
                  pitched our tents on the edge of a prairie about 15 miles from Sedalia Traveled
                  about 25 miles this day. roads mostly good
                        Sunday June 7th 1868
                        Last night after pitching our tent on the edge of prairie I saw some Buzzards
                  & our crowd wishing to Inspect one I thought I would kill one I shot and
                  did not get it but seeing a large fox squirrel near shot it and it & the
                  quails we had previously shot made the meat we had for supper traveling mostly
                  over rolling prairie this morning until we came to a creek where was a meeting
                  house and seeing people coming across the prairie from all directions concluded
                  that there was going to be a meeting making ourselves look as respectable as
                  possible for we looked pretty hard, we went in the house which was then very much
                  crowded t still more coming about 400 persons assembled here at church in this  very thinly settled country strange where so
                  many came from but it is evident that they must have come some of them as far as
                  10 or 15 miles Baptist church Mt. Olive that being the name of church the
                  preachers tert being a very good one "while we were yet sinners Christ
                  died for us" Meeting held nearly 2 hours one old corpulent Darkie woman
                  joined the church after singing a song the congregation went down a little ways
                  from the church to the Bank of Barter Creek where a young man was Baptised. After
                  which we came west though not until we had taken particular notice of the fair sex
                  which were here largely represented & fed for noon
                        This being Sunday H P Davis & myself preached a sermon each three or four
                  familiar songs sung by the congregation camped on the bank of Grand river Traveled
                  about 25 miles
                        Monday June 8th 1868
                        This morning after taking breakfast we cross Grand river water low and river
                  small passing through a strip of timber & then a prairie we come to Osage
                  river at a distance of 20 miles from Grand river The land between these two rivers
                  is very good On the Western bank of the Osage river is the newly laid out town of
                  Roscoe of some 3 or 4 stores & some 8 or 10 dwellings & a prospect
                  of more soon being built had a lesson in Astronomy today As we usually do camped
                  in the edge of some timber for the evening Traveled about 30 miles today
                        Tuesday June 9th
                        This morning we were on the road by a little before 5 oclock the country presents
                  about the same appearance as it has for the last few days being a strip of timber
                  & then a small or large prairie we passed two small towns this morning the
                  first was Clintonville some dozen houses 1% miles from this is Virgin City a new
                  place of about one hundred and fifty inhabitants in Cedar county we passed a small
                  town this morning which had been destroyed during the war This town was named
                  Becktown after a man by the name of Beck who founded it. He being a rebel General
                  Lane & army passing through burned every house in it which was some 15 or
                  20 coming west about 1 mile we stopped on a beautiful prairie for dinner Land
                  worth from 3 to 5 dollars per acre not much improved land near here passed through
                  a place called Virgil City some 2 hundred inhab's, perhaps passed some
                  herdsmen with cattle talked with them some time passed on and camped on the
                  prairie 5 miles from Lamar in Barton county Traveled about 35 miles
                        Wednesday June 10th 1868
                        After taking breakfast this morning we leave camp soon arrive at Lamar county
                  seat of Barton county where we stopped some 2 hours This is a very new place
                  perhaps settled about 2 years Population they say is 6 hundred here is a chance
                  for a man to speculate a good opening for any kind of business Good wild prairie
                  land within a mile of the town can be had for from 3 to 6 dollars per acre after
                  leaving Lamar we passed through a unsettled but rich & beautiful prairie
                  entirely out of sight of timber in some parts of the prairie 
                              Prairie
                            to the right of us 
                              Prairie
                            to the left of us 
                              Prairie
                            in front of us 
                              Prairie
                            behind us  Boundless &
                  seemingly endless 
                              Prairie
                            Towards evening we enquired for State Line City finding that it layed
                  to our right and that we could get there at a shorter distance by taking a by road
                  done so but in crossing the prairie we got blockaded by a stream called Blackberry
                  & as night come on we could do no less than camp for the night
                        Thursday June 11th
                        Last night we camped within 3 miles of Joseph Davis's on the banks of
                  Blackberry yesterday having traveled 25 miles This morning we arrived at State
                  Line City5 about 9 oclock found all well this is a beautiful
                  place about 2% miles from timber at nearest point to stand here & view the
                  wide extended plain is beautiful Just where the sky and earth appear to come
                  together can be seen in the distance the tops of trees all around on every side
                  the day was mostly spent in conversation There are some herdsmen herding cattle
                  here They are building a house. Their cattle can be seen on the plains grazing
                  which spots it over beautifully In the evening we went over to Neutral City6 a small place 5 miles from here after our mail
                        The boys sent some mail and gat some also 
                              Elwood
                            went out this evening to sed if he could no% kill a wolf ar 
                              Prairie
                            Chicken but did not see any I went over in 
                              Kansas
                            several times today a very beautiful day today a pleasant breeze
                  blowing all day which was desirble
                        Friday June 12th 1868
                        Mr Hawkins came over this morning & we went out to look at some claims
                  & I gathered myself a beautiful boquet Enoch Carter & family in
                  connection with two other families were here today for dinner They are on their
                  soad to monthly meeting which is held tomorrow at 
                              Spring
                            River This afternoon Kire & Wils went to Neutral City after
                  the mail I wrote a letter to John this evening The windlass having fallen in the
                  well I went down after it The well is 40 feet deep Weather pleasant today are
                  beginning to need rain
                        Saturday June 13 1868
                        This morning it looks very much like rain but it has blown over We started for
                  monthly meting 15 miles from here on 
                              Spring
                            River Mo at about 8 oclock got there a little too late to enjoy all
                  of the first meeting it was larger than I had expected being held in a blacksmith
                  shop regular Pioneer Style most of them are new settlers not much style but just
                  such accommodations as one would expeat in a new country After meeting we went to
                  John Hutchinses & stayed all night. he has relatives living at 
                              Wabash
                            he was formerly from 
                              Iowa
                           .
                        Sunday June 14th
                        We stayed all night last night at John Hutchin's in the eve after
                  monthly meeting we went to a revival meeting, kept up by the youth. 
                              
                                 5 Joseph Davis was an older brother of the diarist and
                      H. P. Davis, who had some time earlier migrated to southwestern 
                                    Missouri
                                 . State Line City, the home of Joseph Davis was in 
                                    Missouri
                                  at the 
                                    Kansas
                                  line. It was a little south of the line between Barton and 
                                    Jasper
                                  counties.
                              
                                 6 Neutral City, 
                                    Kansas
                                 , is nearly west of the site of State Line City. It is almost due
                      south of Pittsburg, 
                                    Kansas
                                 , the distance from the latter city being eight or ten
                    miles.
                           
                            I believe that I never was at a meeting where
                  there was more interest manifested than at this meeting. Some 15 or 20 prayers
                  offered. This morning Mr. Hutchins took 
                              Elwood
                            & me out to look at the location for the high school, which
                  is a beautiful elevated spot After which we came to the house & went to
                  the first day School & meeting both were interesting & well
                  attended The meeting held long & there was a great ed said After meeting
                  we went to David Hodsons for dinner He is lately from 
                              Iowa
                            & lives in a shell of a house regular pioneer style is a very
                  clever man We started for home at about 4 oclock passing mostly through timber
                  until we came to Medoc a little town Population about two hundred about 7 miles
                  from State Line City. here our attention was attracted to a Parot which was
                  talking. I never saw one that could talk so well it could talk sing, cry or do any
                  thing it was told It and a little girl sang together This being the 14th of June
                  reminds me very much of the 14th of June last year though the circumstances in
                  which I was placed were very different
                        On the 14th of June last year I was at Raisin Valley Seminary this day being the
                  close of the 2nd term of the school I attended there. I was enjoying the company
                  of my schoolmates & friends Spent most of the day in closing exercises
                  Public Speaking, declaming &c. In the evening we had a social. Ice cream
                  &c enjoyed a general good time but I am now in the far west & can
                  only look at them as past pleasures I suppose that Reunion this year was last
                  friday I would have enjoyed it well but it finds we nearly 1,000 miles distant on
                  the plains of 
                              Missouri
                            & 
                              Kansas
                            The next day after the Reunion last year quite a number of the
                  students went to the lake [
                              Lake
                            Erie] about 15 miles distant but I did not go that evening I took
                  Flora Sawyer [and] Cary de Puy to the Theater at Adrian7 had a
                  splendid time & the next morning which was Sunday 
                              Elwood
                            Calvin Hutchins & Ezra Shaw & myself started for 
                              Ann Arbor
                           . After spending 3 or 4 days having visited the University started for
                  Adrian got there in the eve Stopped there a few hours & I started fm home
                  arrived home on the 20th of June 1867, left Edward to remain at commercial college
                  until he completed his course
                        I now return back to our present travels. After spending some time in Medoc we
                  started for State Line City about 6 oclock passing mostly through wild 
                              Prairie
                            got to S Line City about dark turned our horses to grazing Spent an
                  hour of two in conversation tied our horses up & retired for the night
                  feeling as tired as if we had worked all day
                        Monday June 15th 1868
                        This morning the boys went to put some foundations on some claims. 
                              Elwood
                            went with me & we layed the foundation of a house on my claim
                  This evening we were very much surprised at the arrival of William &
                  Simpson Jones, from 
                              Wabash
                            Said they left home last friday week Come on the cars to Sedalia & there hired a two horse buggy & come in that
                  here. We were glad to see them for we could here from home then 
                              
                                 7 Raisin Valley Seminary was in southeastern 
                                    Michigan
                                  about midway between Adrian and 
                                    Lake
                                  Erie. The trip to Adrian to attend the theater must have been
                      made by train.
                           
                            They say they like the country well. Weather
                  pleasant today not much indication of rain
                        Tuesday June 16th 1868
                        This morning William & Simpson in company with Joseph went out to look at
                  Joseph's land They had not been gone long when one of them could be
                  seen coming to the house after the gun & the cry was that they had seen a
                  wolf & wanted us to help them catch it. This we were eager to do pretty
                  soon we could have been seen marching out with three guns after us looking for
                  some time could not see any thing of it but found a place where we supposed it had
                  gone in the ground We immediately sent to the house for instruments for digging it
                  out after digging for sometime thought best to abandon the hunt which we did. all
                  our work for nothing After dinner William & Simpson pursued their journey 
                              Elwood
                            went with them they are going to Baxter Springs & around to 
                              Carthage
                            & then towards home will perhaps be at home in 10 days Kire
                  and Wilson went out advertising they will perhaps be gone all week I put a
                  foundation on fathers & Silases claims this evening
                        Wednesday June 17th
                        I wrote some in my day book. also wrote some letters This afternoon I went to
                  Neutral City after some mail but did not get any for any of us I sent off four
                  letters this eve one to Sadie Ellis one to Phebe Haviland one to Ella Tudor and
                  one to Alonzo Hoover. Also bought some paper and ink. did not get back until about
                  nine oclock all were in bed I went down to Mr. Myers place being close here to get
                  him to plow for me but he said the ground was too hard and dry Weather pleasant
                  today are needing rain badly
                        Thursday June 18th 1868
                        Last eve as I went to Neutral City I met a drove of 160 head of horses one of
                  them had almost given out It was a large 3 year old. They offered it me for 15
                  dollars I helped Joseph some today about building his stable laying the foundation
                  &c
                        Today Mr. Whait come hew & we talked the matter over about holding Sunday
                  School in his new house in State Line City. concluded to organize one next Sunday
                  meet at 9 oclock & continue to meet once a week at this place. Weather
                  pleasant
                        Friday June 19th 1868
                        This morning I was awakened at an early hour to Shoot a wolf which had been
                  committing its depredations on the chickens having killed 2 and carried off one
                  but when it saw me it scampered off in the prairie I helped Joseph almost all day
                  to day we raised the building which we yesterday framed This evening I went out
                  where George 
                              Scott
                            Joseph's hand was breaking prairie I plowed one round
                  which was the first prairie breaking I ever done Looked like rain today but it
                  blew over.
                        Saturday June 20th 1868
                        I wrote some in my day book this morning after which I & the children
                  went out to a spring to get some water but it had dried up I took the gun along
                  saw 2 prairie chickens but they were wild I shot at  a prairie snipe but missed it. This afternoon there was
                  a meeting for the purpose of establishing a graveyard I attended with 7 others
                  accomplished the object for which we met & returned home. I read some in
                  the bible today Did not feel very well today Weather pleasant but windy ground
                  very dry need rain.
                        Sunday June 21st 1868
                        This morning we are stirring & fixing for Sabbath School which is held at
                  9 oclock for the first time in State Line City There were only 21 present on
                  account of the word not being circulated in time. we organized to be kept up every
                  week at this time. I was appointed Assistant Superintendent. I wrote a letter to
                  Annie Bechtol today & took it to tb office This eve Joseph &
                  family & myself went to meeting at N. [Neutral] City at 4 oclock 2 joiners
                  one young man late from 
                              Ann Arbor
                            Medical College Mich. Good meeting8
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
                  8 The diary stops abruptly with the entry of June 16. Mark S.
            Davis, the diarist, returned to Indiana. He was never married. He amassed considerable
            property. He spent the latter part of his life in 
                     Indianapolis
                  , where he became somewhat prominent in Polities. He died in 1893.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            By CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            Officers and Committees for 1933:1
               
                  President Emeritus: James A. Woodburn, 
                        Bloomington
                     
                  
                  President: Eli Lilly, 
                        Indianapolis
                     
                  
                  First Vice-president: Richard B. Wetherill, 
                        Lafayette
                     
                  
                  Second Vice-president: Mrs. Harvey Morris, 
                        Salem
                     
                  
                  Third Vice-president: Arthur G. Mitten, Goodland
                  Treasurer: John G. Rauch, 
                        Indianapolis
                     
                  
                  Secretary: Christopher B. Coleman, 
                        Indianapolis
                     
                  
                  Executive Committee: Lee Burns, chairman, 
                        Indianapolis
                     ; the above named officers; Mrs. Eva Neal Morris, Amos W. Butler,;
              Linnaeus N. Hines; Otto M. Knoblock
                  Chairmen of Committees and Sections: 
                        Publications Committee, Lee Burns, 
                              Indianapolis
                           
                        
                        Membership Committee, O. H. Greist, 
                              Indianapolis
                           
                        
                        Covered Timber Bridges Committee, Robert B. Yule, 
                              Indianapolis
                           
                        
                        Old Mills Committee, Kate Milner Rabb, 
                              Indianapolis
                           
                        
                        College Section Committee, Albert L. Kohlmeier, 
                              Bloomington
                           
                        
                        High School Section Committee, Daniel W. Snepp, 
                              Evansville
                           
                        
                        Archeological Section Committee, William R. Teel, 
                              Indianapolis
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               Publications (Recent numbers of Vol. X):
            No. 1. CENTENNIAL HANDBOOK, INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY, pp. 1-80. December,
          1930. Edited by Christopher B. Coleman. History of the Society by James A. Woodburn;
          Roster of Officers 1830-1930; Legislative Charter; Constitution; Officers and Members,
          1930; Publications.
            No. 2 OUR PIONEER HISTORICAL
            SOCIETIES, pp. 81-98, April, 1931. By Evarts B. 
                  Greene
               . Centennial Address by the president, for that year, of the American
          Historical Association.
            No. 3. THE POLITICAL CAREER OF
            JESSE D. BRIGHT, pp. 99-146. May, 1931. By Charles
          B. Murphy. A sympathetic 
                  
                     1 The officers for 1933 were elected at the annual meeting of
              the Indiana Historical Society on December 9, 1932. The chairmen of Committees and
              Sections were announced by the Executive Committee after its meeting of December
            9.
               
                version of the career of one of Indiana's
          most prominent public men—and one of its most famous storm centers.
            No. 4. UNEDITED LETTERS OF JONATHAN JENNINGS, pp, 147-278. November, 1932. Edited with notes
          by Dorothy Riker. A collection of 109 letters and documents of the first governor of the
          State of Indiana, hitherto unpublished; a few, however, taken from contemporary newspapers
          now very rare.
            No. 5. THE POKAGONS OF THE LAKE
            SHORE. By Cecelia Buechner. An appreciative account of two nineteenth
          century chiefs of the Pottawatomi of northern Indiana and 
                  Michigan
               . A view of Indians novel to most readers. To be published before March.
            
               Publications (projected):2
            
            Letters of the Pears family, 
                  New Harmony
               . Edited by the Reverend Thomas 
                  Clinton
                Pears, Jr. of 
                  Pittsburgh,
              Pennsylvania
               .
            History of 
                  Spiceland
                Academy, 1836-1921. By Mrs. Sadie Bacon Hatcher of 
                  Fort Wayne
               .
            Early Indiana architects. By Lee Burns, of 
                  Indianapolis
               .
            A translation of Jacob Schramm's letter to relatives in 
                  Germany
                from 
                  Hancock County
               , published in 
                  Germany
                in 1837. A translation has been made by his granddaughter, Mrs. Emma S.
          Vonnegut.
            Canadian volunteers in the War of 1812. By Augustus R. Markle of 
                  Terre Haute
               .
            The Moravian Mission on 
                  White
                River. By Arthur R. Brady of 
                  Anderson
               .
            The life of Ulysses P. Schenck of 
                  Vevay
               . By Mrs. Corinne Schenck Dahmen of 
                  Los
              Angeles, California
               .
            
               
                  2 The articles here listed have been submitted to the Indiana
            Historical Society for publication, or are already in process of publication.
            
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               
                  
                     Vigo
                  : A Forgotten Builder of the American Republic. By Bruno Roselli,
          Professor of Romance Languages, Vassar College. Stratford Company, 
                  Boston
               , 1933, Pp. 1-280.
            Professor Roselli's biography of the man who rendered George Rogers 
                  Clark
                invaluable aid in the capture of Fort Sackville is not only a eulogy of his
          hero but a glorification of all natives of 
                  Italy
                who have become Americans. It is not in. tended to be a critical study. The
          author points out very plainly in the Foreword his contempt for the serious biographer who
          "minimizes the psychological element while magnifying the factual, and enmeshes
          the whole adventure of a great man's life-work in a maze of distracting
          footnotes and pompuous bibliography."
            Discounting the lack of historical scholarship and the exaltation of 
                  Vigo
                to the detriment of his co-workers, George Rogers 
                  Clark
                and Father Pierre Gibault, the historian as well as the general reader will
          be repaid for reading the volume, The author's manner of presentation can be
          explained to some extent by the fact that 
                  Vigo
                who "actually reshaped the destiny of the 
                  United States
               ," and was "hailed as savior by his most illustrious
          contemporaries" has been largely forgotten. This work is to be regarded as the
          beginning rather than the end of a movement to make the people of America better
          acquainted with 
                  Vigo
                and his services to his adopted country.
            After reading forty-two pages of largely prefatory material, we find the
          author's first definite contribution, the Certificate of Birth and Baptism
          which definitely establishes the date and place of 
                  Vigo
               's birth. 
                  Vigo
               's life as a soldier in 
                  New Orleans
                and his fur-trading activities as the partner of Don Fernando de Leyba are
          likewise contributions to our knowledge.
            The author's account of 
                  Vigo
               's work in winning back the "repentant and
          disillusioned" population of 
                  Vincennes
               , thus preparing the way for 
                  Clark
               , presents an angle that has heretofore received little attention by
          historians. Professor Roselli bases his conclusions upon logic as well as upon facts. He
          asks, "If 
                  Vigo
                did not ‘Americanize’ 
                  Vincennes
               , who did it?" Then by eliminating all the other possibilities he
          gives this honor to 
                  Vigo
               . His influence over the people is attributed to  the fact that 
                  Vincennes
                was founded by a "Carignan" officer and settled by
          "Carignan" soldiers. The author proceeds to explain that the original
          "Carignan" Regiment was made up entirely of Italians from Piedmont, 
                  Vigo
               's birthplace, and while acknowledging that the personal Italian
          connection was scant in so far as the inhabitants of 
                  Vincennes
                in 1779 were concerned, the traditional connection was present and served as
          a common ground between them and 
                  Vigo
               .
            To most readers it will appear evident that the author has magnified the services of 
                  Vigo
                in the winning of the Old Northwest at the expense of the others who rendered
          equal or greater service. This is to be regretted for there is much that can be done to
          place 
                  Vigo
                in his proper position without robbing 
                  Clark
                and Gibault of any of the honor and glory due to them.
            The author sees in 
                  Vigo
               's fur-trading activities following the Revolutionary War a vast
          scheme for creating an All-American current of trade, in American hands, irrespective of
          flags, that would connect the Gulf of 
                  Mexico
               , the Atlantic, and the Great Lakes—a scheme that would
          "unbottle" the 
                  Mississippi
               . This plan was reduced to a smaller scale because of the failure of the
          Americans to capture 
                  Detroit
                and a lack of cooperation on the part of the American government. The latter
          failure was seen in the impost duty placed on goods coming into the Northwest from the
          East, and the refusal to give presents to the Indians, without which the American trader
          could not compete with the British trader. According to 
                  Vigo
               's revised plan, he would work with the British and yet control all
          that part of the fur trade in the Northwest which preceded the packing at 
                  Detroit
                for shipment to 
                  England
               .
            Several errors of fact appear in the volume under review, a few of which should be
          mentioned here. 
                  Clark
               's attack on Fort Sackville began on the evening of February 23
          instead of on the morning of the twenty-fourth (p. 140); contemporary accounts disprove
          the statement that 
                  Clark
               's men had no part in the encounter between the inhabitants of 
                  Vincennes
                and a party of Indians friendly to the British, during which two Indians were
          killed (pp. 143-44); John Law did not come to Indiana until 1817, so, obviously, he was
          not present at the interview between Governor 
                  Harrison
                and Tecumseh in 1810 (p. 251). Lack of consistency is shown when the author
          labels  Francis Bosseron a grafter (p. 160), while
          farther on (p. 170), he is termed one of the "Valley's own
          Noblemen." 
                  Vigo
               's commendable action in regard to Burr's conspiracy is
          not mentioned in any connection.
            The usefulness of the volume is impaired by the lack of an index. Too frequent use of
          italics and capitalization for emphasis detract from the appearance of the volume and
          lessen rather than promote in the reader the impression of the greatness of the
          author's hero. The real contributions made by Professor Roselli in this
          biography are so submerged in the vituperative criticism of 
                  Vigo
               's better known contemporaries and in the airing of irrelevant
          grievances that it is doubtful whether many readers will be able to sift the grain from
          the chaff.
         
         
            
               
                  
                     Wabash
                   College: The First Hundred Years, 1832-1932. By JAMES INSLEY OSBORNE and THEODORE GREGORY GRONERT. Published by R. E.
          Banta, 
                  Crawfordsville
               , 1932. Pp. xiv+395, illustrated.
            This centennial history of one of the very best liberal arts colleges ever founded in the
          interior of America is described on the title-page as "Being the story"
          of the growth of 
                  Wabash
                College, "from its founding in the wilderness to the present
          day." Through a hundred years, the institution has remained a small college
          devoted to limited and definite purposes and wedded to high standards.
            The narrative deals somewhat fully with the founding of the school, with the
          administration of different presidents and with outstanding members of the faculty. The
          traditions developed during the century are noted, and considerable space is devoted to
          extra-curricular activities of the student body, There is a chapter on "College
          Life before the Civil War," and of necessity one on "The Literary
          Societies," which organizations occupied such strong ground in all colleges
          before and after the Civil War. There is another chapter headed "Student Life in
          Dr. Tuttle's Time," and one that carries the simple but effective
          caption "Little Giants."
            The destinies of 
                  Wabash
                have been guided by strong men. Among the presidents have been numbered such
          men as Elihu Baldwin (1835-1840), Dr. Charles 
                  White
                (1841-1861), Dr. Joseph F. Tuttle (1862-1892), and George Lewes Mackintosh
             (1906-1926). The College has been particularly
          fortunate in obtaining the services of men of scholarship and force of character as
          members of the faculty throughout the century of its existence. A list of the most able
          men would certainly include: Edmund O. Hovey, the founder and moving force of the college
          in the early years: Caleb Mills, noted as an educator, who played a splendid part in the
          establishment of the public school system of Indiana; and John M. Coulter, who was widely
          known as a botanist and administrator.
            The authors of the volume are both connected actively with 
                  Wabash
                at the present time, Dr. Osborne being Professor of English Language and
          Literature and Dr. Gronert Professor of History. They were naturally somewhat hurried in
          the writing of the history. Confessedly they labored hard to produce the later chapters.
          More than half the volume, perhaps too much, is given to the development of the College
          since 1900. When calling attention to the results of the presidential election of 1832,
          the year of the founding of 
                  Wabash
               , an error which has appeared in many histories is repeated. The popular vote
          for Henry Clay in Indiana in that contest was not 15,472 but 25,472 according to the
          official returns. There is no index, a fact which will worry many users of the book,
          especially when they seek the full names of several of the men prominent in the history of
          the College. The illustrations are well-chosen and well-executed and the printing is well
          done. The volume is very valuable and should be welcomed and read by hundreds in addition
          to those who have special reasons for a deep interest in the great work and fine
          traditions of 
                  Wabash
                College.
         
         
            
               Indiana Book of Merit (Indiana World War Records, IV). Compiled by
            HARRY A. RIDER, Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                  Indianapolis
               , 1932. Pp. xi+827, illustrated, $5.00.
            This large volume deals with Indiana men and women who were awarded "Official
          and Individual Decorations and Commendations" for "Service in the World
          War." The names of all so honored are arranged alphabetically, a brief
          biographical sketch including the war record of each is presented, accompanied in most
          cases by a photograph. Honors conferred are listed in every instance, such as Silver Star, Croix de  Guerre, Distinguished Service
            Cross, Legion of Honor, Military Cross, Division Citation, Silver Life Saving
          Medal, etc. In the "Introduction," written by Dr. Christopher B.
          Coleman, it is admitted frankly that many gallant and meritorious services escaped
          official recognition. However, the compiler of this record could do no more than recognize
          honors officially recorded.
            In the application of the phrase "Indiana Men and Women," there was a
          problem. All persons who when enlisting in the Army or Navy gave Indiana as their place of
          residence were included and their records were examined for evidences of awards. To these
          were added the names of many persons born in Indiana who enlisted from other states. In
          addition, persons who, "before or during the world war, were so closely
          identified with Indiana that they could. reasonably be claimed by this state"
          were included. It was not easy to prepare an accurate list of those among the Indiana men
          and women who were honored. Especially was it possible to miss some who received foreign
          decorations or awards. In this connection, Dr. Coleman's statement should be
          repeated here: "It cannot be too strongly emphasized, therefore, that the absence
          of any name is not to be construed as a rejection or a refusal of recognition."
          The volume contains over five hundred names and is a mine of useful information relative
          to the men and women of Indiana who have found a place in this Book of
          Merit. There is an index of names arranged by counties.
         
         
            The Bulletin of the Indiana Historical Bureau for February, 1933 (Vol.
          X. No, 5), which was recently published, is a monograph entitled The
            Archeology of 
                     Greene
                   County (Indiana), by Glenn A. Black. This study which is supplemented
          by diagrams and photographs runs to more than one hundred sixty pages. The greater part of
          the nomograph is devoted to an "Archeological Survey" (63 pp.) of the
          County and to a discussion of the "Excavations" (42 pf.) made. There is
          a brief, opening chapter dealing with the "Early History and Physical Features of 
                  Greene
                County." The "County Collections" are described in
          a few pages, and in the last chapter of seventeen pages the author presents
          "Conclusions." There is a "Foreword" by Dr. Coleman.
          In this contribution we have a  valuable addition to
          the series of archeological studies already published by the Indiana Historical Bureau.
            The Indiana Legislature in the regular session of 1931 authorized Governor Harry G.
          Leslie to appoint a Study Commission for Indiana Financial Institutions. The Governor
          named the following members: Walter S. Greenough, chairman, Willis G. Ellis,
          Vice-chairman, Curtis H. Rottger, Treasurer, Paul N. Bogart, 
                  Franklin
                M. 
                  Boone
               , Myron H. Gray, Charles Kettleborough, William G. Irwin, Hugo Melchoir,
          William F. Morris, and George Weymouth. Herman B. 
                  Wells
                of Indiana University was selected as Secretary of the Commission. An
          extensive investigation of the financial institutions of the state was made, and a
          valuable and courageous Report was prepared and published in 1932 in
          time to be of service during the legislative session of 1933, which recently closed. On
          the basis of the recommendations of the Commission, the General Assembly enacted a new law
          which it is believed will greatly strengthen the banks, trust companies, and building and
          loan associations of Indiana while guarding much more carefully the interests of
          depositors. The Report is a pamphlet of 174 pages.
            Dr. Burton D. Myers of Indiana University is the author of a brief paper entitled
          "The History of Medical Institutions in Indiana in the Last Twenty-Five
          Years." The paper was published in the Journal of the Indiana State
            Medical Association, XXV (December 15, 1932), pp. 531-536. The article is
          accompanied by cuts of the following: the old Indiana University School of Medicine
          building which is now used as a State House Annex; the building once used by the Central
          College of Physicians and Surgeons; of the present Indiana University School of Medicine;
          and of the grounds of the Indiana University medical center as seen from the air. Dr.
          Myers deals more briefly with the earlier history of medical schools of Indiana than did
          Dr. Murray N. Hadley in his recent article, "Medical Educational Institutions in
          Indiana" (Indiana Magazine of History, December, 1931), but
          gives more attention to the present Indiana University School of Medicine and to the
          hospitals which form a part of the University Medical 
                  Center
               .
            
            "This is My America—a State that is one proud family of Home Town
          Folks" is the extended but catchy title of a fascinating article by Margaret
          Weymouth 
                  Jackson
                which appeared in the February issue of the American
          Magazine. The picture of the narrow, gossiping, kindly, honest, likable Hoosier
          family group is drawn by the hand of an artist. There are several things revealed in the
          portrait that are not complimentary to the big family that is Indiana, but there are fine
          things too that come out even more plainly.
            Indiana is a "combination of civic virtue and unkind rumors"; not
          "always as high-minded as it should be, but al. ways intensely human and
          clannish." A common inheritance merges "the whole state into one
          domain" making "Indiana a democracy in the finest sense of the
          word." Small towns abound. "These little country villages and courthouse
          squares! They are the essence of Indiana. They are the training placer! in humanity that
          make Indiana so rich in lore and understanding." The "dignity of any
          labor" is respected by Hoosiers and "they respect themselves."
          Indiana produces artists and poets because the "Hoosier sense of beauty is so
          universal and present" that another outcome would be
          "impossible." Every Hoosier, "wherever he has been" on
          returning to Indiana "breathes a sigh of happiness." Go back and read of
          Indiana in the February American. With all their faults, you will love
          Hoosiers still.
         
         
         
            Comment
            The man who attains an office is often congratulated because of the honor conferred on
          him, but no wise man will be overcome by any reverence accorded him on account of the
          station which he occupies. Instead he will be inspired by the opportunities that confront
          him. At the present moment, conditions furnish unprecedented problems that call on men in
          power for action. The responsibilities are heavy, but men of courage will respond to the
          demands of the day and attempt to right wrongs by initiating constructive reforms. May
          success attend the efforts of those in state and nation who are daring enough to
          experiment in good faith.
            It has been pretty well demonstrated that enough of foodstuffs, raw materials and
          finished goods can be produced to provide comfortably for the vast population of the earth
          down to the last man, woman and child. This being true, it must be that the fundamental
          problem is one of organizing the exchange of commodities and services. Overproduction will
          not be very serious when practically everyone can exchange commodities or service for more
          than he needs of what he wishes to consume or enjoy. What are the features of the
          world's financial and price systems that prevent a fair and reasonable exchange
          of products and services in a world where both material goods and labor are abundant? It
          would seem that the answer to this question should be earnestly sought by the master minds
          of our time.
            There is no doubt but that the great majority of American citizens wish to save the
          existing economic system. It is now admitted freely that it requires modification, but the
          general belief is that all experiments must be for the purpose of strengthening, not
          superseding, the established order. In this connection, there is a strange confusion in
          regard to deflation and inflation of our currency. If prices, wages, profits interest
          charges and the face value of debts could be regulated so that all would automatically go
          up or down together, there would be little suffering. Then neither deflation or inflation
          could do great harm, but there is danger that conditions now prevalent, if not changed,
          will result in the overthrow of republican government. Surely deflation will have to be
          completed  or a reasonable amount of inflation will be
          necessary. Those great classes who suffer most from excessive and unequal deflation can
          not survive indefinitely, which means that a planned re-adjustment must be brought about
          if a violent readjustment by revolution is to be avoided.
            Joint control of financial institutions by federal appointees and private capitalists has
          not worked well. In most cases, those who represent the government have been chosen from
          the same class as those who represent private interests. Even if thoroughly honest and
          well meaning, since they hold the same beliefs in regard to economics and business
          methods, it has been perfectly natural that joint regulation should in fact be a
          regulation fully satisfactory to private capitalists. Certain classes of banks, for
          example, while enjoying the same prestige as if they were really government institutions,
          have been private institutions, managed by private capitalists and regulated in the
          interest of the banks instead of in the interest of the classes who have borrowed from
          them. It is even true that borrowers, forced to buy blocks of stock in the banks from
          which they have obtained their loans, have been denied dividends on their stock though
          they must pay interest on the loans. The difference in the legal obligations, is such that
          the banks can plead poor business for passing dividends. The borrowers can make the same
          plea with an equally good basis in fact, but they can no more avoid paying interest than
          making payments on the principal. Unpaid interest accrues, but unpaid dividends do not.
          The legal obligations are different, but why? The bankers of this class receive money from
          the borrowers at the same time that the borrowers receive money from the bankers. The
          responsibilities of stewardship should be proportionately the same.
            The following announcement by the University of 
                  Minnesota
                Press will interest many readers:
            "Arrangements have been completed by the Colonial Dames of America in 
                  Minnesota
                to publish through the University of 
                  Minnesota
                Press five diaries of eighteenth century Canadian fur traders, four of the
          five hitherto unpublished. Manuscripts of these diaries are in the possession of McGill
          University in Montreal and the Public Archives of 
                  Canada
                at 
                  Ottawa
               , from which the 
                  Minnesota
                Historical Society obtained  photostatic
          copies. Publication of these documents was undertaken as part of the Colonial
          Dames' project to ‘coordinate, stimulate, and increase the historic
          activities of the state societies, to encourage historic research and the preservation of
          old records, manuscripts, and pamphlets.’ The diaries to be published are those
          of Peter Pond, John Macdonell, Archibald McLeod, Hugh Faries, and Thomas Connor. They have
          been edited by Charles M. Gates. Grace Lee Nute, curator of manuscripts for the 
                  Minnesota
                Historical Society and author of The Voyageur, supplies a
          general introduction. Under the title Five Fur Traders of the Northwest
          the diaries will be published together in one volume during the summer of 1933."
            
               Corporal Si Klegg, a volume about which an inquiry was thrown out in
          our December issue, was written by Wilbur F. Hinman. It was first brought out by the
          Williams Publishing Company of 
                  Cleveland
               , 
                  Ohio
               , in 1887. A later edition was printed by the N. G. Hamilton Company of 
                  Cleveland
                in 1898. For this information we are indebted to Miss Esther U. McNitt, Chief
          of the Indiana Division, Indiana State Library.
            Hinman's book is a charming account of the experiences of "Si
          Klegg" and his comrade "Shorty" during the Civil War. The
          author had to be thoroughly acquainted with a soldier's life to write such a
          book. He depicted the comedies and tragedies of life at the front during the great
          "Brothers War" with a master hand. The narrative is accompanied by many
          interesting illustrations, many of them in the nature of caricatures.
            Contributors to this issue: Dr. James A. Woodburn is "the grand old
          man" of the Indiana Historical Society. He maintains his legal residence in
          Indiana where his chief interests lie. Here he votes and exercises a great influence
          though he spends the greater part of each year in 
                  Ann
              Arbor, Michigan
               . The
          Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., is Archivist at the University of Notre Dame. Roscoe N.
          Leak is a citizen of Lizton, Indiana, who is much interested in different phases of local
          and state history. Miss Mabel Nisbet McLaughlin, who lives in Henderson, 
                  Kentucky
               , is a direct descendant of Thomas Endicott, Sr., the Endicott who first
          migrated to Indiana. Clarence L. Goodwin, formerly a resident of 
                  Indianapolis
               ,  now lives in 
                  Greensburg, Pennsylvania
               . He is a graduate of Indiana University and a
          direct descendant of Edward Goodwin. The home of Mrs. Corrinne Schenck Dahmen, a native of 
                  Vevay
               , Indiana, and a loyal member of the Indiana Historical Society, is in
              
                  Los Angeles, California
               . Mildred C. Stoler is Cataloguer of
          Manuscripts in the Indiana State Library. Dorothy Riker serves the Indiana Historical
          Bureau as Research Assistant. The diary of Mark S. Davis was kindly furnished by Mr. and
          Mrs. John A. Coffin. The diarist and his brothers were uncles of Mrs. Coffin's
          mother, Mrs. Leota Davis Botkin, who lives in 
                  Muncie
               , Indiana.
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may
          be obtained by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an
          order placed for as many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests
          should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of
          which reprints are desired is published.
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed
          below. The Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the
          country are in need of copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For
          older and rarer numbers, prices above the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing
          any of the desired publications, will confer a great favor by writing to the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need for the following
          numbers: 
                  Volume I, 2, 3 (Sept., Dec., 1905).
                  Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
                  Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907)
                  Volume IV, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1908).
                  Volume V, 2, 3, 4 (June, Sept., Dec., 1909).
                  Volume VI, 1, 3, 4 (March, Sept., Dec., 1910).
                  Volume VII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1911).
                  Volume VIII, 1, 2, 4 (March, June, Dec., 1912).
                  Volume IX, 1 (March, 1912).
                  Volume X, 1 (March, 1913).
                  Volume XVII, 4 (Dec., 1921).
                  Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
                  Volume XXII, 1 (March, 1926).
               
            
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries or
          individuals who may desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied
          at fifty cents a copy, or two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price is
          one dollar per copy, or four dollars per volume. Issues from 1905-1913, when they can be
          supplied at all, will be sold at one dollar and a half per number.
            
            Mr. George S. Cottman, the first editor of the Indiana Magazine of
          History, who now resides at 
                  Madison
               , Indiana, R. R. 5, has a complete file of the Magazine
          which he is willing to sell to any library for $125. The first three volumes
          are bound, but the remaining volumes are unbound. The opportunity to purchase an unbroken
          file from the beginning is unusual. Anyone desiring to purchase should write to Mr.
          Cottman, or to the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            The Indiana University Library needs the following publications to complete its files.
          Anyone having any of these pub lications will confer a great favor by writing to W. A.
          Alexander, Librarian of Indiana University, 
                  Bloomington
               , Indiana.
            
               The Indiana Alumnus
               
                  Volume VI, 14 (Dec. 25, 1926). Wanted 3 copies.
                  Volume VI, 16 (Jan. 16, 1927). Wanted 2 copies.
               
            
            
               The Indiana University Catalogue. The University also needs the
          following to fill out the files. 
                  1832-1833. Wanted 3 copies.
                  1833-1834. Wanted 3 copies.
                  1834-1835. Wanted 3 copies.
                  1836-1837. Wanted 2 copies.
                  1837-1838. Wanted 2 copies.
                  1839-1840. Wanted 2 copies.
                  1840-1841. Wanted 2 copies.
                  1843-1844. Wanted 2 copies.
                  1849-1850. Wanted 2 copies.
                  1853-1854. Wanted 2 copies.
               
            
            
               The Indiana School Journal. Wanted Volume XXXVII (1892) and Volume
          XXXVIII (1893).
            
               The Mennonite Quarterly Review. Wanted a copy of Vol. I, number 1.
         
      
   
