
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 100, Issue 1, pages 1-86. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:100+issue:1+year:2004&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            EDITOR'S NOTE
            Studying history connects us to our past.
            Such was the thinking that led to the creation of this magazine ninety–nine years ago.
                    Editor George Cottman and his contributors believed themselves engaged in a vital battle against
                    forgetfulness and aimless change—a battle to rescue obscure documents and preserve fading
                    memories. Around them industry, large–scale agriculture, urbanization, and a growing
                    population of immigrants threatened the rural and small–town Indiana that they and other
                    longtime Hoosiers recalled. With their artistic and literary contemporaries, the new generation of
                    Indiana historians crafted a picture of a bygone place of self–sufficient craftsmen and
                    farmers, of simple folk wisdom, and shared moral values.
            One of the ironies of studying history is that it opens our eyes to the inconsistency of the record
                    of the past—a record that is for the most part one of change and disagreement.
                    Things—to modify the old cliche—never were what they used to be. In the years
                    since our first issue in 1905, the changes that turn–of–the–century
                    Indianans lamented have themselves become the subject of historical analysis, even of sentimental
                    longing.
            The journal itself—established as a bulwark against the ravages of time— has
                    inevitably changed in the century since its first appearance. Our familiar red cover, introduced by
                    editor James Madison in 1987, nowjoins its predecessors (see facing page) as evidence of that steady
                    change. Beloved as was the previous design, we have chosen to honor the journal's pending
                    centennial by offering a new cover, reflecting our commitment to bring fresh perspectives to our
                    traditional mission. The new design, by Mary Blizzard of AB Graphics in 
                        Bloomington
                    , draws on type and illustrations developed by Hoosier artist Gustave Baumann for James
                    Whitcomb Riley's All the Year Round, published in 1912. With its strong
                    sense of place and its focus on the passage of the seasons, Riley and Baumann's book seems
                    an apt source of inspiration for a journal dedicated to examining the effects of time upon
                    Indiana's culture.
            
            For further thoughts on change, continuity, and the role of the 1MH, you may wish
                    to visit Editorial Assistant Keith Erekson's analysis, in this issue, of last
                    year's reader survey. As Erekson shows, our readers did not shy from expressing their
                    vigorous (and often conflicting) opinions about the journal, its contents, and even the meaning of
                    "history" itself. Your survey comments, coupled with the high rate at which you
                    responded, help to confirm our feeling that this publication can and should remain vital for its
                    readers today—that our mission must not stop at only preserving evidence of the past. If
                    history is to connect us to the past, then it must also connect us to the same passion and
                    controversy that consumed George Cottman and his readers.
         
         
         
            "A Great and Good People"
            Midwestern Quakers and the Struggle Against Slavery
            THOMAS D. HAMM, APRIL BECKMAN, MARISSA FLORIO, KIRSTI GILES, AND MARIE HOPPER
            In the writing of American history, Quakers have occupied a place out of proportion to their
                    relatively small numbers. Probably the most important reason for this conspicuous presence is the
                    group's pioneering work against slavery. Nearly every history of the antislavery movement
                    affirms the Quakers' precedence, both in Europe and America, in recognizing the evil of
                    human bondage and in speaking out against it. Typical is the verdict of Louis Filler, whose work set
                    the standard for a generation: "Although there were always individual voices opposing
                    slavery, the first group to take a stand on slavery had been the Quakers."
                    Filler's evaluation was echoed by Merton Dillon, who writes that Quakers "alone
                    grasped the dimensions of the problem." David Brion Davis, in his magisterial The Problem oj Slavery in Western Culture, reaches the same conclusion: "[W]hen
                    all allowances 
                  Thomas D. Hamm is archivist and professor of history at Earlham College, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana. April Beckman is a 2000 graduate of Earlham College, and Marissa
                            Florio, Kirsti Giles, and Marie Hopper are 2001 Earlham graduates. Research for this article
                            was originally done in a special project at Earlham College in 1999 made possible by a grant
                            from the Knight Foundation. Earlier versions of the article were presented at the Biennial
                            Conference of 
                                Quaker
                             Historians and Archivists in June 2002, and at the Willard Heiss Memorial
                            Lecture at the Indiana Historical Society Annual Meeting in November 2001. The authors
                            acknowledge the helpful comments of Professor Emma Jones Lapsansky of Haverford College on
                            an earlier draft.
               
                    
                    
                  Fugitives Arriving at Levi Coffin's
                                Indiana Farm, a Busy Station of the Underground Railroad, no date, artist unknown.
                            Copy of The Underground Railroad by Charles T. Webber, 1893. Courtesy 
                                Cincinnati
                             Museum of Art
                are made for cultural trends and climates of opinion, one must ultimately come down to the
                    men who precipitated change." The precipitators, in his view, were disproportionately
                        Friends.1
            
            Opposing slavery was one thing; envisioning the place of free people of color in American society was
                    quite another. Here we find more diversity of opinion among historians. Many 
                        Quaker
                     historians have focused on benevolence and support for legal equality, a view some
                    non–Friends reflected. Emma Lou Thornbrough, for example, gives extensive attention to 
                        Quaker
                     work in 
                  
                     1 Louis Filler, The Crusade against Slavery,
                                1830–1860 (
                                New York
                            , 1960), 13; Merton L. Dillon, The Abolitionists: The Growth of a
                                Dissenting Minority (
                                New York
                            , 1979), 7; David Brion Davis, The Problem zof Slavery in Western
                                Culture (
                                Ithaca
                            , N.Y., 1966), 489.
               
                     Indiana on behalf of free blacks and highlights the relative
                    enlightenment of Friends amidst the state's pervasive racism.2
            
            Other historians, however, have reached different conclusions about 
                        Quaker
                     racial attitudes. Anyone approaching the subject must confront the slow acceptance of
                    black members in the faith, a topic exhaustively treated by HenryJ. Cadbury in 1936. More recently,
                    Jean Soderlund argued in Quakers and Slavery: A Divided Spirit that the 
                        Quaker
                     approach to slavery and African Americans generally was "gradualist,
                    segregationist, and paternalistic," and that it "set the tone for the white
                    antislavery movement in America" before 1833. A recent article by Ryan 
                        Jordan
                     makes a similar argument, as does a new work by Stephen Vincent on African Americans in
                        Indiana.3
            
            Most of this work has focused on the East, especially 
                        Philadelphia
                     and the Delaware Valley. Our study moves the focus westward, to
                    the Indiana Yearly Meeting of Friends (both a regional unit and an annual convention), formed in
                    1821, and its offshoot bodies. This focus is appropriate for several reasons. By 1850, the Indiana
                    Yearly Meeting (Orthodox), the largest yearly meeting of Friends in the world, stretched from
                    central 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                        Iowa
                    . In short, before the Civil War, with the exception of badly fractured 
                        Quaker
                     groups in eastern 
                        Ohio
                    , the Indiana Yearly Meeting was midwestern Quakerism.
            Midwestern Quakers were not, however, a united body. In 1828, driven by theological controversies
                    among Friends in the East, they had split into Orthodox and Hicksite (reform) groups; thereafter
                    both called themselves Indiana Yearly Meeting, with the Orthodox embracing about 80 percent of those
                    who had been members before the split. Both yearly meetings, in turn, experienced division in the
                    1840s, when a group that called itself Indiana 
                  
                     2 Allen C. Thomas, A History of the Friends in
                            America (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1930), 112–15; Rufus M.Jones, The Later Periods of
                                Quakerism (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1921), II, 559–618; Elbert Russell, The History of
                                Quakerism (
                                New York
                            , 1942), 357–75; Walter R. Williams, The Rich Heritage
                                of Quakerism (Grand Rapids, Mich., 1962), 180–91; Emma Lou Thombrough,
                                The Negro in Indiana before 1900: A Study of a Minority (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1957), 33–37, 43, 58, 100–102, 203.
                  
                     3 Jean Soderlund, Quakers and Slavery: A Divided
                            Spirit (
                                Princeton
                            , N J., 1985), 185; HenryJ. Cadbury, "Negro Membership in the Society
                            of Friends," Journal of Negro History, XXI (April 1936),
                            151–213; Ryan 
                                Jordan
                            , "The Indiana Separation of 1842 and the Limits of 
                                Quaker
                             Anti–Slavery," 
                        
                                    Quaker
                                 History, LXXXIX (Spring 2000), 1–27; Stephen A. Vincent,
                                Southern Seed, Northern Soil: African–American Farm Communities
                                in theMidwest, 1765–1900 (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1999), 33–35. See also Gary B. Nash and Jean R. Soderlund,
                                Freedom by Degrees: Emancipation in 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 and Its Aftermath (
                                New York
                            , 1991); and Thomas E Slaughter, Bloody Dawn: The Christiana Riot
                                and Racial Violence in the Antebellum North (
                                New York
                            , 1991), 190.
               
                     Yearly Meeting of Anti–Slavery Friends split off from
                    the larger Orthodox body upset by the refusal of the majority to support the radical abolitionist
                    movement. Hicksites experienced a similar schism, with their radical abolitionists separating to
                    form meetings of what became known as Congregational or Progressive Friends. Finally, because of
                    steady growth, in 1858 the Orthodox Indiana Yearly Meeting "set off," or
                    established, a new yearly meeting called Western, which included Orthodox Friends in 
                        Illinois
                     and western, central, and southern Indiana.4
            
            These midwestern Friends lived amidst unrelenting racial prejudice. The Northwest Ordinance of 1787
                    had excluded slavery from the area, yet antislavery forces had to beat back strong efforts to
                    legalize forms of bondage in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . All of the midwestern states imposed myriad schemes of racial discrimination,
                    culminating in Indiana's constitutional ban on the admission of people of color approved by
                    voters in 1851.Those who opposed such laws usually found themselves politically isolated. For
                    African Americans, freedom north of the Ohio River was definitely better than
                    slavery, but it was a limited, often degrading freedom.5
            
            From its establishment in 1821, the Indiana Yearly Meeting had maintained a Committee on the Concerns
                    of the People of Color, sometimes called the African Committee. The committee's annual
                    reports are a fertile resource for understanding African–American life as Quakers saw it.
                    Each of the 
                  
                            
                        4 For the history of the Indiana Yearly Meeting, see Gregory P.
                                Hinshaw, Indiana Friends Heritage 1821–1996: the 175th Anniversary History of Indiana Yearly Meeting of Friends ([
                                    Muncie
                                , Ind, 1996]). For the Hicksite separation, see H. Larry Ingle, Quakers in Conflict: The Hicksite Reformation (Knox–ville, Tenn.,
                                1986). For the antislavery split among Indiana Orthodox Friends in the 1840s, see 
                                    Jordan
                                , "The Indiana Separation of 1842." For the separation of
                                Congregational Friends, see Thomas D. Hamm, God's Government
                                    Begun: The Society for Universal Inquiry and Reform, 1842–1846 (
                                    Bloomington
                                , Ind., 1995), 65–71, 201–202.
                            Some knowledge of 
                                    Quaker
                                 organization is necessary for understanding the group's history.
                                The lowest level of organization was the individual congregation, which Friends referred
                                to as a preparative meeting or simply as a meeting. One or more made up a monthly
                                meeting, the basic business unit for Friends. It received and disowned members, held
                                property, and solemnized marriages. Two or more monthly meetings made up a quarterly
                                meeting, which took up business that was considered beyond the purview of monthly
                                meetings. Several quarterly meetings made up the yearly meeting, the highest authority
                                for Friends. It had the last word in matters of faith and practice. See Thomas D. Hamm,
                                    The Transformation of American Quakerism: Orthodox Friends,
                                    1800–1907 (
                                    Bloomington
                                , Ind., 1988), xvi–xvii.
                            Orthodox Friends in 
                                    Iowa
                                , even after the formation of the Western Yearly Meeting, remained part of
                                the Indiana Yearly Meeting until 1863, when they began to hold the 
                                    Iowa
                                 Yearly Meeting. See Louis Thomas Jones, The Quakers of 
                                        Iowa
                                    
                         (
                                    Iowa
                                 City, 1914), 74–84.
                        
                  
                     5 See Thornbrough, Negro in Indiana; and Leon F
                            Litwack, North of Slavery: The Negro in the Free States,
                            1790–1860 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1961), 69–103, 115–16.
               
                     quarterly meetings had a similar committee. While not all of the
                    records of these committees have survived, many have. Also useful are the diaries and letters,
                    published and unpublished, of 
                        Quaker
                     ministers on both sides of the Atlantic who traveled through the Midwest and recorded
                    their impressions before 1870. Finally we have collections of Quaker family papers in various
                    repositories. One must be clear about the limitations of these resources, however. They reflect
                    African–American life as Quakers saw it. Only occasionally do we hear the voices of black
                    people themselves.
            The racial attitudes and practices of Friends in what was then the West differed significantly from
                    those of Friends back east. As organized bodies, midwestern Friends systematically and repeatedly
                    condemned racial prejudice. They did not segregate their schools, their meetinghouses, or their
                    graveyards. They opposed legal limits on African–American rights, such as the notorious
                    Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     black laws. They gave considerable time and effort to promoting black education and
                    relieving cases of poverty. They aided fugitive slaves, and gave time and money to rescue kidnapped
                    free people from slavery.
            Still, midwestern Friends had their limits. Some were not free from the racist attitudes of the
                    larger society. At least a few were colonizationists who could foresee an America free of slavery as
                    one that also must be free of black people (a view that some black leaders also embraced). Many
                    Friends were doubtless apathetic; a relatively small number conducted most of the meetings, and many
                    members were probably nominal in their commitments beyond attending worship. The quarterly meeting
                    committees on the concerns of the people of color often bewailed lack of interest. 
                        Quaker
                     benevolence was frequently accompanied by a paternalistic outlook in which African
                    Americans had to be instructed in the virtues of thrift, hard work, and sobriety. But Friends
                    usually saw this need as growing not out of innate racial characteristics, but rather from the
                    ignorance and degradation of slavery.6
            
            
               
                  6
                        Indiana Yearly Meeting [Orthodox] Minutes, 1839, 24; Henry
                        Hough to H. F Bennet, February 7, 1847, box 1, Huff–Nixon Family Papers (Friends
                        Collection, Earlham College, 
                            Richmond
                        , Ind.). For rates of participation in monthly meeting business, see Thomas D. Hamm
                            et al., "Moral Choices: Two Indiana 
                            Quaker
                         Communities and the Abolitionist Movement," Indiana Magazine
                            of History, LXXXVII (June 1991), 151–52. Similarly low rates of
                        participation are found in a study of four other monthly meetings at the time of the Hicksite
                        separation. See Hamm, "A Crisis of Communication: The Hicksite Separation in Indiana
                        Yearly Meeting of Friends," manuscript in co–author Hamm's
                        possession. For low rates of participation in a quarterly meeting committee, see West Branch
                        Quarterly Meeting Committee on the Concerns of the People of Color Minutes, 1828–1841
                        (Indiana Yearly Meeting Archives, Earlham College).
            
            
            Even in light of these important qualifications, midwestern Quakers were remarkably consistent in
                    their opposition to slavery and racial injustice in the nineteenth century. Most 
                        Quaker
                     attitudes and concerns—aiding fugitive slaves, educating free blacks,
                    providing charity, protesting discriminatory laws—remained constant from the time of the
                    Quakers' crossing of the Ohio River in the early 1800s until
                    Reconstruction. Change came largely in response to forces in the larger society: court decisions
                    that forced freed people to leave 
                        North Carolina
                     in the 1820s, discriminatory black laws in 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana from the 1820s into the 1850s, the rise of the "immediate
                    abolitionist" movement, and the Civil War and its aftermath. While Friends sometimes
                    responded to these events with new tactics (and sometimes differed over whether change was
                    appropriate), the underlying religious and moral foundations of their actions remained the same.
            To present–day minds, the most praiseworthy efforts of midwestern Friends were their
                    protests against legal disenfranchisement and discrimination. Friends protested black laws with some
                    regularity, and they opposed the exclusionary clauses of the new Indiana constitution in 1851. Like
                    most states in the antebellum period, North or South, Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     imposed severe disabilities on people of color. They could not vote, serve on juries or
                    in the militia, or testify in court against a white person. Neither state allowed black children to
                    attend public schools, nor did they provide separate schools before 1849, even though African
                    Americans paid school taxes. After 1831, both states required free blacks entering the state to post
                    bonds against becoming public charges, and in 1851 Hoosier voters approved by a
                    four–to–one margin a constitutional provision banning the entry of people of
                    color into the state.7
            
            Friends condemned these laws and urged their repeal. In 1831, for example, when the Indiana
                    legislature debated the law requiring free blacks entering the state to post a
                    five–hundred–dollar bond, Elijah Coffin, the clerk of the Orthodox yearly
                    meeting, strongly protested. As one state senator recorded: "He urged that the negro was a
                    stranger in our land not of his own 
                  
                     7Thornbrough, Negro in Indiana, 55–91;
                            Litwack, North of Slavery, 69–74, 93–94, 115; David
                            A. Gerber, Black 
                                    Ohio
                                 and the Color Line, 1860–1915 (
                                Urbana
                            , 111., 1976), 3–24. The 
                                Ohio
                             black laws were modified in 1849 to allow blacks to enter the state and testify
                            in court against whites and to provide tax support for segregated schools. See John Niven,
                                Salmon P. Chase: A Biography (
                                New York
                            , 1995), 119–22.
               
                    
                    
                  Elijah Coffin Courtesy Lilly Library, Earlham College, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana
                choice but by oppression & fraud. That it was wrong to abridge his rights by law.
                    It was against the Holy Scriptures." That fall, the yearly meeting, faced with a similar
                    law in 
                        Ohio
                    , branded it "unjust and oppressive," and directed that memorials
                    asking for repeal be sent to the legislature. On other occasions, Orthodox Friends in Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     sent petitions to the legislatures of both states requesting the repeal of some or all
                    of the black laws. In 1847 Orthodox Friends published an Address to the Citizens of the
                        State of 
                            Ohio
                        , Concerning What Are Called the Black Laws, urging their repeal:
                    "usages or laws which measure the rights and privileges of the African race by a lower
                    standard than that which we apply to our own, are irreconcilable with the manifested will of our
                    Great Creator." The Indiana Yearly Meeting of 
                    Anti–Slavery Friends and the Hicksite–seceder Green Plain Yearly Meeting of
                    Congregational Friends took similar action. Bills for the repeal of the black laws were introduced
                    in the Indiana legislature by representatives from counties with large 
                        Quaker
                     populations. Hicksite Friends in 
                        Ohio
                     were also active. In 1846, for example, David Evans, a leading Hicksite from
                            
                  Waynesville, Ohio
               , wrote a public letter criticizing a Democratic state senate
                    candidate for his refusal to support repeal of the black laws, and in 1850 a member of the Miami
                    Quarterly Meeting (probably Evans) urged the amendment of the state constitution "that
                    there shall be no constitutional distinction on account of color." After the Civil War, in
                    the first such effort since the Hicksite separation, a joint committee from the Hicksite Indiana
                    Yearly Meeting and the Orthodox Indiana and Western yearly meetings attended the Indiana legislature
                    with a memorial urging it to repeal all discriminatory laws and to grant black men the right to
                        vote.8
            
            Indiana Friends reacted strongly to the 1851 Indiana constitution's ban of further black
                    immigration into the state, and its accompanying fund to encourage the colonization of
                    African–American residents. The Meeting for Sufferings of the Orthodox Indiana Yearly
                    Meeting, the equivalent of an executive committee, sent a long memorial to the state constitutional
                    convention decrying the proposal and invoking the Declaration of Independence to argue for legal
                    equality. The only concession that opponents gained, however, was a provision for a popular vote on
                    this clause separate from general approval or disapproval of the new constitution. The pattern of
                    voting on the exclusion provision also is revealing. Statewide, it passed with about 84 percent
                    approval. Only four counties rejected the clause. Of these, 
                        Steuben
                    , 
                  
                     8 The Elijah Coffin quotation is from The Diary of Calvin
                                Fletcher, Gayle Thombrough, Dorothy L. Riker, and Paula L. Corpuz, eds., (9 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1972–1983), VII, 315; Indiana Yearly Meeting
                            [Orthodox] Minutes, 1831,14; Walter Edgerton, A History of
                                the Separation in Indiana Yearly Meeting oj Friends; Which Took Place in the Winter of
                                1842 and 1843, on the Anti–Slavery Question (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1856), 104–105; Indiana Yearly Meeting of Friends [Orthodox], Address to the Citizens of the State oj 
                                    Ohio
                                , Concerning What Are Called the Black Laws (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1847); David Evans to Voters, September 1,1846, box 1, Evans Family Papers (
                                Ohio
                             Historical Society, 
                                Columbus
                            ); Anonymous to Miami Quarterly Meeting, 1850, box 2, ibid.;
                            Indiana Yearly Meeting [Hicksite] Men's Minutes, 1866, 7–9
                                (Ohio Valley Yearly Meeting Archives, Wilmington College,
                                    
                        Wilmington, Ohio
                     ); "The Late Indiana Yearly Meeting Held
                            at 
                        Waynesville, Ohio
                     , the 1st of the Tenth Month, 1866,"
                            Friends' Intelligencer, December 8, 1866, 634; Thornbrough, Negro
                            in Indiana, 58. 
                                Jordan
                            , who states that the Orthodox Indiana Yearly Meeting took no action against
                            racial discrimination between 1843 and 1857, apparently was unaware of the 1847 pamphlet and
                            the 1850 memorial. See 
                                Jordan
                            , "Indiana Separation of 1842," 20.
               
                    
                    
                  David Evans Courtesy Lilly Library, Earlham College, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana
               
                    
                        Lagrange
                    , and 
                        Elkhart
                     were on the northern edge of the state, the one part of Indiana settled largely by New
                    Englanders. The other county, 
                        Randolph
                    , had probably the largest proportion of Quakers to non–Quakers of any county
                    in the state.9
            
            
               
                  9 Dorothy Riker and Gayle Thornbrough, comps., Indiana
                            Election Returns, 1816–1851 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1960), 388–90; Indiana Yearly Meeting [Orthodox] Meeting for Sufferings
                        Minutes, November 25, 1850 (Indiana Yearly Meeting Archives); Mary C. Johnson, ed., The life of Elijah Coffin, with a Reminiscence by His Son Charles E Coffin (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1863), 80; Thornbrough, Negro in Indiana,
                    82–84.
            
            
            Even more revealing is a focus on the twenty Indiana counties that contained at least one monthly
                    meeting of Friends in 1851. We do not have any firm statistics on the number of 
                        Quaker
                     men of voting age at this time, or even on the number of Quakers in Indiana, but it is
                    undoubtedly significant that in the twenty 
                        Quaker
                     counties, the margin of support for exclusion of African Americans was 66.5 percent as
                    opposed to 84 percent statewide. Of the four counties to cast more than 800 votes against the
                    proposal, three were the strongly 
                        Quaker
                     counties of 
                  Wayne, Randolph
               , and Henry. Another way of gauging the apparent impact of
                    Friends' votes is to consider that while the twenty 
                        Quaker
                     counties accounted for only 19.7 percent of the total votes cast on the provision, they
                    supplied 41 percent of the votes against it. To be sure, one should not assume that every
                    anti–exclusion vote in the 
                        Quaker
                     counties was cast by a Friend, or that all Friends voted against exclusion. Certainly
                    that must have been the case in 
                        Orange County
                    , where only 24 votes were cast in opposition, and there were probably more than 24 
                        Quaker
                     men of voting age there. But the conclusion is clear: levels of opposition were
                    significantly higher in the 
                        Quaker
                     counties than in the state generally10
            
            The radical abolitionist offshoots of the two Indiana Yearly Meetings, the Indiana Yearly Meeting of
                    Anti–Slavery Friends and the Green Plain Yearly Meeting of Congregational Friends, were,
                    not surprisingly, even more outspoken in condemning legal manifestations of racism. In 1844, for
                    example, the Anti–Slavery Friends petitioned Congress not just for the abolition of
                    slavery in the 
                        District of Columbia
                    , a ban on the interstate slave trade, and repeal of the Fugitive Slave Act of 1793, but
                    also for the repeal of "all laws of Congress making a distinction on account 
                  
                     10 Riker and Thornbrough, Indiana Election Returns, 388–90. Midwestern Friends did not begin collecting
                            membership statistics until the 1860s. Estimates put the membership of the Indiana Yearly
                            Meeting [Orthodox] around 1850 at about 30,000, of whom about one–third were
                            under age 21. At least 40 percent of the yearly meeting's membership lived in
                                    
                        Ohio, Michigan, Illinois
                     , or 
                                Iowa
                            , meaning that about 12,000 adult members lived in Indiana. Assuming that half
                            were men, this would mean about 6,000 potential Orthodox 
                                Quaker
                             voters, with Anti–Slavery Friends and Hicksite Friends accounting
                            for possibly another 1,000 at most. Thus Friends could have accounted for about 5 percent of
                            the 135,000 votes cast on the proposal. For calculations of membership, see Richard Eugene
                            Wood, "Evangelical Quakers in the Mississippi Valley,
                            1854–1894" (Ph.D. diss., University of 
                                Minnesota
                            , 1985), 6, 13–14.
               
                     of color." The Green Plain Congregational Friends in
                    1848 similarly demanded the repeal of all of "the unjust and iniquitous laws which make
                    distinction between men on account of color." In 1850, a memorial from the Congregational
                    Friends in 
                        Dublin
                    , Indiana, to the Indiana constitutional convention urged that black men be given the
                    vote on the same terms as whites, rendering some delegates nearly apoplectic.11
            
            Doubtless the editor of the 
                        Salem
                    
                    Democrat spoke for many of his Indiana neighbors when he wrote of Quakers in 1859:
                    "Their tenacious and universal adherence to negro
                    equality is the rotten spot that has marked them since the days of the Revolution." In
                    asserting the legal rights of African Americans, Quakers were tenacious and, in the eyes of their
                    contemporaries, radical.12
            
            The most notable parallels between western Friends and those in 
                  Philadelphia, New York
               ,
                    and elsewhere east of the Appalachians emerged in their works of charity. By far the greatest amount
                    of 
                        Quaker
                     energy went into African–American education, with Friends sometimes
                    receiving black students in 
                        Quaker
                     schools, but more often subsidizing schools that black parents controlled. As mentioned
                    earlier, black children were excluded from all forms of public education in Indiana, and it was not
                    until 1849 that 
                        Ohio
                     provided funds even for segregated public schools. Indiana did not provide public
                    education for black children until 1869.13 Orthodox Friends paid particular
                    attention to black education after the separation of 1828, establishing a boarding school as well as
                    day schools. Hicksite Friends took a similar course. Friends of both persuasions reported great
                    satisfaction. For example, Hicksites recorded in 1832 the progress of pupils in two schools in 
                        Brown County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    : "The children learned quite as fast as white children in similar
                    circumstances"; at the end of a three–month term most could read and write. The
                    number of students and schools varied; the high point came in 1851, when the Orthodox yearly meetihg
                    entirely supported or partially subsidized twenty–one black schools. During and after the
                    Civil War, Friends put even more energy into establishing schools among the freed people in 
                  
                     11
                            Indiana Yearly Meeting of Anti–Slavery Friends Minutes, 1844,
                            10–11; Minutes and Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of Friends,
                                Composed of Persons from Parts of 
                                    Ohio
                                 and Indiana, Held at Green Plain, 
                           Clark
                                        County, Ohio
                        , Who
                                Have Adopted the Congregational Order (
                        Springfield, Ohio
                     ,
                            1848), 7–8; Report of the Debates and Proceedings of the Convention
                                for the Revision of the Constitution of the State of Indiana,
                            1850 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1850), I, 77.
                  
                     12 "Our 
                                Quaker
                             Neighbor," 
                                Salem
                             (Indiana) Democrat, December 1, 1859.
                  
                     13 Gerber, Black 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , 3–24; Thornbrough, Negro in Indiana,
                            323.
               
                     the South, including Southland College in 
                        Arkansas
                    , the first black college west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    .14
            
            In supporting black education, midwestern Friends were following a practice that dated back to the
                    beginnings of the denomination, when leading Friends such as George Fox had encouraged 
                        Quaker
                     slaveowners to teach their slaves to read and write. In the eighteenth century, Friend
                    Anthony Benezet had been the pioneer in education for African Americans in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Yet when eastern Friends established schools for black children, they were almost
                    invariably separate from those for white 
                        Quaker
                     children.15
            
            West of the mountains the pattern is less clear. Black children were sometimes admitted to schools
                    under the care of Friends. The English minister Benjamin Seebohm, visiting 
                        Parke County
                    , Indiana, in 1850, noted that Friends there "have no school at present amongst
                    the coloured people themselves, but a number of their children are admitted into Friends schools,
                    and taught amongst their white schoolfellows." In 1856 Friends in 
                        Grant County
                    , Indiana, tried to win the admission of a black child to a local public school; in a
                    few cases in 
                        Randolph
                     and 
                        Wayne
                     counties they were successful. In 1866 a black student in the Richsquare Friends
                    Academy in 
                        Henry County
                    , Indiana, wrote to the local newspaper about the kind reception he had received there.
                    Friends played a leading role in the establishment of the Union Literary Institute in 
                        Randolph County
                    , the first school established in the state for the express purpose of integrated
                    secondary education. Yet most 
                        Quaker
                     money and energy went into the establishment of separate schools for black children.16
            
            
               
                  14 Thornbrough, Negro in Indiana, 161; Frank U. Quillin,
                            The Color Line in 
                                Ohio
                            : A History oj Race Prejudice in a Typical Northern State (
                            Ann Arbor
                        , Mich., 1913), 23, 45; Indiana Yearly Meeting [Orthodox] Minutes, 1832, 17; ibid., 1833, 11; ibid.,
                        1834, 11; ibid., 1840, 21; ibid., 1851, 37–38; Indiana Yearly
                        Meeting [Hicksite] Men's Minutes, 1832, 41. For work during the Civil War and
                        Reconstruction, see Thomas C. Kennedy, "Southland College: The Society of Friends and
                        Black Education in 
                            Arkansas
                        ," 
                            
                                Arkansas
                            
                         Historical Quarterly, XLII (Autumn 1983), 207–38; Francis C.
                        Anscombe, "The Contribution of the Society of Friends to the Reconstruction of the
                        Southern States" (Ph. D. diss., University of 
                            North Carolina
                        , 1926), 239–58; and Linda Selleck, Gentle Invaders: 
                                Quaker
                             Women Educators and Racial Issues during the Civil War and
                            Reconstruction (
                            Richmond
                        , Ind., 1995).
               
                  15 See, for example, Thomas Woody, Early 
                     
                                Quaker
                             Education in 
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                   (
                            New York
                        , 1920), 236–61; Selleck, Gentle Invaders,
                        15–45; Martha Paxson Grundy, "The Bethany Mission for Colored People: 
                            Philadelphia
                         Friends and a Sunday School Mission," 
                            
                                Quaker
                            
                         History, XC (Spring 2001), 50–82; and the essays in Eliza Cope Harrison, ed.,
                        For Emancipation and Education: Some Black and 
                                Quaker
                             Efforts, 1680–1900 (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1997).
               
                  16 Herbert Lynn Heller, "Negro Education in Indiana from 1816 to
                        1869" (Ed. D. diss., Indiana University, 1951), 164–65; Thornbrough, Negro
                        in Indiana, 166, 173–75; Northern Quarterly Meeting African
                        Committee Minutes, December 19, 1856 (Indiana Yearly Meeting Archives); Indiana Yearly Meeting
                        Committee on the Concerns of the People of Color Minutes, September 29, 1859,
            
            
            The reason for the discrepancies is not apparent. No surviving document records the thoughts of
                    either Friends or African Americans on the subject. In some cases, such as the schools that Hicksite
                    Friends oversaw in 
                        Brown County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , no Friends lived nearby and so attendance at a 
                        Quaker
                     school was impossible. The desire to maintain "select" schools, which
                    enrolled only 
                        Quaker
                     children, a practice often urged by influential Friends, may have played a role, since
                    almost no African Americans were Friends. In other cases, Friends may have deferred to the wishes of
                    black parents. Usually, Friends simply provided money to schools that African Americans controlled,
                    and black communities may have preferred this. They may also have found 
                        Quaker
                     schools, with their mandatory attendance at midweek meetings for worship and
                    enforcement of 
                        Quaker
                     peculiarities of speech and dress, strange and uncomfortable. A survey by the West
                    Branch Quarter in 
                        Ohio
                     in 1847 found that most of the families enrolling children in the black schools that it
                    supported were church members. Black Methodists and Baptists may simply have preferred that their
                    children not receive a 
                        Quaker
                     education. No one, not even Anti–Slavery and Congregational Friends bitterly
                    critical of the bodies from which they had seceded, suggested that the absence of
                    African–American children at 
                        Quaker
                     schools grew out of a desire to separate white from black children.17
            
            At least some Friends, when establishing schools that were not under the auspices of monthly or
                    quarterly meetings, either refused to admit black students or provided for their separate education.
                    Dr. Jesse Harvey of 
                  Harveysburg, Ohio
               , was an outspoken abolitionist whose family
                    had been involved in helping local African Americans establish a school in the community as early as
                    1830. In 1837, when Harvey founded an academy not limited to 
                        Quaker
                     students he admitted black students, but educated them in a separate department;
                    unfortunately, he left no record of his motive. Within a few years, however, he faced such intense
                    criticism from local abolitionists that he changed policy and integrated his classrooms. After
                    Harvey went 
                  
                     ibid; Ebenezer C. Tucker, History of 
                                    Randolph County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882), 179–80; Private Memoirs ofB. and E.
                            Seebohm (
                                London
                            , 1873), 326.
                  
                     17 West Branch Quarterly Meeting Committee on the Concerns of the
                            People of Color Minutes, August 13, 1847. For midwestern 
                                Quaker
                             attitudes on education, see Ethel Hittle McDaniel, The
                                Contribution of the Society of Friends to Education in Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1939), 23–48. For African–American desires for
                            independent institutions, see James Oliver Horton and Lois Horton, In Hope of
                                liberty: Culture, Community, and Protest among Northern Free Blacks,
                                1700–1860 (
                                New York
                            , 1997). For black disinterest in becoming Quakers, see Forrest G. Wood, The Arrogance of Faith: Christianity and Race in America from the Colonial Era
                                to the Twentieth Century (
                                New York
                            , 1990), 284.
               
                     west to teach the Shawnee Indians, Wilson Hobbs, a member of a
                    prominent Indiana Quaker family, took over. He created a new controversy by wavering on the
                    admission of African–American students. At first he accepted, then rejected, a student of
                    mixed European and African ancestry, Margaret 
                        Campbell
                    . Local abolitionists, particularly Congregational Friend Valentine Nicholson, scored
                    Hobbs for the decision. Significantly, Hobbss response was not a straight–out defense of
                    white supremacy. Instead, he insisted that he was bound by the wishes of a majority of the
                    stockholders in the school, who were not Friends. Privately, he confided to Nicholson that he would
                    gladly have admitted 
                        Campbell
                     had the decision been left to him, and that he was sure that the other students would
                    have accepted her. If the Harveysburg case is typical, Friends were embarrassed to be accused of
                    ties to racial segregation.18
            
            In addition to their efforts to improve educational opportunities for black children, Friends also
                    helped impoverished blacks find employment, rescued freed blacks who had been kidnapped into slavery
                    and aided fugitive slaves traveling on the Underground Railroad. For example, in 1824 the 
                        New Garden
                     Quarterly Meeting in Indiana reported that it had "been attentive to the
                    situation of a number of Persons of Color, who have arrived from 
                        North Carolina
                    ; they have given them such advice as they apprehended might be useful, provided places
                    and procured wages for them." Similarly, when the Englishman Seebohm visited 
                        Parke County
                    , Indiana, in 1850, he found Friends there deliberating on how best to aid a party of
                    thirty–two free African Americans who had just arrived from 
                        North Carolina
                    , and "were likely, as strangers in a strange State, to need a little
                    assistance, to promote their getting properly located, and finding the means of employment and
                    subsistence." Friends provided money to support impoverished blacks, and in other cases
                    paid doctor bills and defrayed funeral expenses. A particular concern was rescuing free people of
                    color who had been kidnapped and sold south as slaves. The Orthodox Indiana Yearly Meeting dealt
                    with a number of such cases, hiring lawyers and paying legal expenses. In one instance, a group of
                    Friends from 
                        Hamilton County
                    , Indiana, pursued a kidnapper and his victim all the way to 
                        Louisiana
                    , finally gaining the black man's freedom. In another case, Indiana Orthodox
                    Friends spent six hundred dollars to send 
                  
                     18 The History of 
                                    Warren County
                                , 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1882 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882), 659–60; Valentine Nicholson Ledger, pp. 33–40,
                            Theodore C. Steele Collection (Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
               
                     an attorney and two witnesses to 
                        Texas
                     to gain the freedom of a free black man enslaved there.19
            
            Individual Friends were willing to take more dangerous public stands to aid African Americans who
                    found themselves facing public prejudice and attack. The best–known example is of
                    Frederick Douglass, probably the leading black abolitionist in the 
                        United States
                    , who visited Pendleton, Indiana, in the fall of 1843 and was attacked by
                    anti–abolitionists. Rebecca Fussell, an abolitionist Hicksite 
                        Quaker
                     woman, tried to shield Douglass from the mob by standing in front of him with her baby,
                    but to no avail. After Douglass was injured, he was taken to the home of a 
                        Quaker
                     couple, Neal and Elizabeth Hardy. Douglass ever remembered the care that the kindly
                    Elizabeth Hardy gave him. The next day, despite the violence, the Hicksite Friends opened their
                    meetinghouse near Pendleton for a speech by Douglass. Three years earlier, when a black man married
                    a white woman in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a mob had stormed the house where they were spending their wedding night and ridden
                    the bride through town on a rail. The husband barely escaped with his life, but found refuge at 
                        Newport
                     in 
                        Wayne County
                    , working for Friend Levi Coffin. Eventually, he was reunited with his wife. In 1844,
                    when a slaveholder from 
                        Missouri
                     named Vaughan tried to claim John and Louann Rhodes, fugitives who had found a home in 
                        Hamilton County
                    , Indiana, Friends bedeviled him at every turn. First they tried to prevent his
                    apprehension of the couple, then helped them escape, then took them to safety in a 
                        Quaker
                     settlement near 
                        Knightstown
                    , and finally helped the Rhodeses to prevail in court.20
            
            Probably best known, and doubtless considerably embroidered by legend, is the role of Quakers in the
                    Underground Railroad. While it was the fugitive slave, not the "conductor," who
                    took the greatest risk, and while free blacks in the north were as central, if not more so, to the
                    enterprise as whites, 
                  
                     19
                            Indiana Yearly Meeting Minutes, 1824, 10; ibid., 1825,
                            12; ibid., 1833, 17; ibid., 1845, 23; ibid., 1850, 32; 
                                New Garden
                             Quarterly Meeting Committee on the Concerns of the People of Color Minutes, May
                            21,1852, February 26, August 26, 1853 (Indiana Yearly Meeting Archives); West Branch
                            Quarterly Meeting Minutes, November 15, 1855; Private Memoirs ojB. and E.
                                Seebohm, 327. For kidnapping cases, see Carol Wilson, Freedom at Risk:
                                The Kidnapping oj Free Blacks in America, 1780–1865 (
                                Lexington
                            , Ky, 1994).
                  
                     20 Rebecca L. Fussell Reminiscence, n.d., box 78, Wilbur H. Siebert
                            Collection (
                                Ohio
                             Historical Society, 
                                Columbus
                            ); Jason W Macy to Siebert, September 1, 1894, box 80, ibid.;
                            Thornbrough, Negro in Indiana, 109–10; Frederick Douglass, Lije and Times of Frederick Douglass, Written by Himself (
                                Hartford
                            , Conn., 1882), 287–88; Levi Coffin, Reminiscences of Levi Cojjm, the Reputed President of the Underground Railroad (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1880), 155–60.
               
                    
                    
                  Levi Coffin Courtesy Lilly Library, Earlham College, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana
                it is nevertheless true that midwestern Quakers worked closely and in a relationship of
                    trust with African–American neighbors. One abolitionist in southwestern 
                        Ohio
                     remembered that fugitives would first approach free blacks but that the free blacks
                    referred them to nearby Quakers, "for the colored people thought them safer among the
                    whites than with themselves, and they were right, for the slave hunters would be more apt to use
                    violence on them than on whites." According to later reminiscences, fugitives crossing the
                        Ohio River into Indiana at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     made contact with free African Americans who in turn put them in touch with James L.
                    Thompson, a Friend who lived near 
                        Salem
                    . Thompson then contacted Willis Parks, a black man in southern 
                        Bartholomew County
                    , who conducted the freedom–seekers to John Thomas,  a 
                        Quaker
                     who lived in nearby Azalia. He in turn made arrangements for them to go on to the
                    African–American and 
                        Quaker
                     settlements in Rush and Henry counties. Some Friends hired fugitives to work at
                    "corn husking, wood chopping, butchering, etc. Earning a little money to help them start in 
                        Canada
                    ." If Anti–Slavery Friends are to be believed, some more
                    conservative Friends opposed aiding fugitive slaves, but those criticized responded with denials.21
            
            What, if anything, do Quakers' actions reveal about racial attitudes of ordinary Friends as
                    they struggled with questions of colonization, black migration, interracial marriage, membership,
                    and the roles of black people in their communities and the larger American society? As any historian
                    of religion is aware, doctrinal and policy statements by denominational leaders and authorities are
                    often not normative for the membership. Several historians have pointed to examples of prejudice
                    among Friends in the East. There the handful of African–American Quakers before 1860 were
                    often seated in galleries or at the rear of meetinghouses, and black graves were separated from
                    white in 
                        Quaker
                     cemeteries, when they were allowed at all. 
                        Quaker
                     charity in institutions such as orphanages and "free schools" was
                    dispensed in the same manner. Occasional applications for membership from black people were
                    sometimes subjected to long procedural delays. Abolitionists after 1830 denounced what they saw as
                    the prejudice of more conservative Friends. "They will give us good advice. They will aid
                    in giving us a partial education—but never in a 
                        Quaker
                     school, beside their own children. Whatever they do for us savors of pity, and is done
                    at arm's length," was the lament of one black activist.22
            
            In the Midwest, relatively few Friends left behind any record of racial feelings, and we have almost
                    nothing from people of color about their experiences with Friends. One fact that does speak
                    eloquently to the issue is how 
                  
                     21 Isaac P Cox to Siebert, April 20, 1896, box 78, Siebert Collection;
                            John Thomas to Siebert, April 5, 1896, ibid.; Isaac M. Beck to Siebert, December 29, 1892,
                            box 102, ibid.; Abraham Allen Biography, n.d., box 103, ibid.; Edgerton, History of the Separation, 239–41.
                  
                     22 Cadbury, "Negro Membership," 160–61,
                            168–69, 172–81; Philip S. Benjamin, The 
                                    Philadelphia
                                 Quakers in the Industrial Age, 1865–1920 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1976), 128; Margaret Hope Bacon, "New Light on Sarah Mapps Douglass
                            and Her Reconciliation with Friends," 
                        
                                    Quaker
                                 History, XC (Spring 2001), 30–32; Benjamin Quarles, Black Abolitionists (
                                New York
                            , 1969), 72. The authors are indebted to Vanessa Julye and Donna McDaniel, who
                            are writing a history of Quakers and African Americans, for directing us to the citation in
                            Quarles.
               
                     African Americans in the Middle West voted with their feet. In
                    Indiana, and to a lesser extent in 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Michigan
                    , they were found disproportionately living near 
                        Quaker
                     communities. In 1860, for example, the largest black populations in Indiana were found
                    in 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Randolph
                     counties, major 
                        Quaker
                     centers. Similarly, one of the largest rural black communities in 
                        Michigan
                     was in 
                        Cass County
                    , which had a considerable 
                        Quaker
                     population. Free blacks often turned to 
                        Quaker
                     neighbors for legal help or support. Other whites were well aware that Quakers
                    "have always befriended these unhappy people."23
            
            Still, there are indications of ambivalence on the part of some Friends, and an embrace of the racial
                    attitudes of the larger white society by others. A good example lies in 
                        Quaker
                     response to the colonization movement, which sought to link the abolition of slavery to
                    the removal of free blacks to Africa or the Caribbean. Abolitionists after 1830 decried such
                    requirements. In 1836 the Indiana Yearly Meeting (Orthodox) officially condemned what it called
                    "the unrighteous work of expatriation." Yet at least one leading Orthodox
                    minister, Jeremiah Hubbard, was known for his colonization sympathies. Even more striking is the
                    case of the long–time clerk of the Orthodox yearly meeting, Elijah Coffin. Early in the
                    1840s, Coffin penned a long essay that he entitled "On Home Colonization." In it
                    he suggested that emancipation be linked to the establishment of an independent black nation in the
                    great American desert (meaning the West in general), with blacks forcibly removed to it, if
                    necessary. Coffin was quite willing to invoke the horrors of "amalgamation" as
                    justification for his proposal. Even one actively abolitionist Friend finally embraced colonization.
                    Alfred Hadley, who lived near 
                        Annapolis
                    , Indiana, had aided many fugitive slaves, but as an acquaintance remembered,
                    "finally came to the conclusion that as his forefathers helped to bring slavery in the
                    country it would be better to tax him with other property and create a fund for their purchase and
                    settlement in some good place." 
                  
                     23 Gregory S. Rose, "Quakers, North Carolinians, and Blacks
                            in Indiana's Settlement Pattern," Journal of Cultural
                                Geography, VII (Fall/Winter 1986), 35–48; Rose, "The
                            Distribution of Indiana's Ethnic and Racial Minorities in 1850," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVII (September 1991), 249–55;
                            Harold B. Fields, "Free Negroes in 
                                Cass County
                             before the Civil War," 
                        
                                    Michigan
                                 History, XLIV (December 1960), 375–83; Jane East Karkalits,
                            "The Story of Birch Lake Quakers," typescript, 1963, pp. 6–7
                            (Friends Collection); Vincent, Southern Seed, 35; Tucker, History of 
                                    Randolph County
                                
                     , 197–98, 217; "Jacob Cummings Reaches Cabin Creek, 
                                Randolph County
                            ," n.d., box 80, Siebert Collection; J. H. Mendenhall, "The
                            Old Underground Railroad," January 1, 1896, ibid.; Philip J.
                            Schwarz, Migrants against Slavery: Virginians and the
                            Nation (
                                Charlottesville
                            , Va., 2001), 131.
               
                     In a similar case, William Talbert, a Friend in Union County,
                    Indiana, wrote in 1826 that "I hold it as indisputably correct, viz that every free person
                    has a right to go where he pleases, if he has means to Justify it & if there are people of
                    colour found here amongst us we feel bound to advise & assist them in getting employment
                    Etc. But there is a very strong prejudice in the minds of many people, against the emigration of the
                    people of colour to the western States—and from various considerations on the subject, I
                    had much rather Government would locate a colony for them some where in the S [outh] West of this
                    continent." Still, one should distinguish between colonizationists who rejoiced at the
                    prospect of a lily–white 
                        United States
                     and those like Hadley and Talbert who had sadly concluded that massive white prejudice
                    made any other solution impossible.24
            
            Other Friends expressed different fears, particularly at times when large numbers of free blacks were
                    settling in Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                    . In 1826, for example, Samuel Charles of 
                        Richmond
                     wrote to Friends in 
                        North Carolina
                     that "the prejudice against a colored population was as great in Indiana, as
                    in 
                        North Carolina
                    , and that there was as much of it in the minds of members of our Society there as in
                    other people." That same year, another elderly Friend said that he would rather see Indiana
                    a slave state than to have free blacks in it. In the 1840s, an Orthodox Friend in Indiana was quoted
                    as saying "she would be afraid of her life if the slaves were set free." For
                    virtually all Friends, interracial marriage was more than they could bear; even committed
                    abolitionists like Levi Coffin opposed it, although he did not think that it should be illegal.25
            
            
               
                  24 P J. Staudenraus, The African Colonization Movement,
                            1816–1865 (
                            New York
                        , 1961); Paul Goodman, Of One Blood: Abolitionism and
                            the Origins of Racial Equality (Berkeley, Calif., 1998), 11–22; Indiana Yearly Meeting [Orthodox] Minutes, 1836,14; Thomas E. Drake, Quakers and Slavery in America (
                            New Haven
                        , Conn., 1950), 141–42; Thomas D. Hamm, ed., "'On Home
                        Colonization,' by Elijah Coffin," Slavery and Abolition, V (September 1984),
                        154–68; William L. Mclntyre to Wilbur H. Siebert, January 3, 1896, box 78, Siebert
                        Papers; William Talbert to Nathan Mendenhall, November 12, 1826, Meeting for Sufferings Papers, 
                            North Carolina
                         Yearly Meeting Archives (Friends Historical Collection, Guilford College, 
                            Greensboro
                        , N.C.). Orthodox Friends like Elijah Coffin also defended colonization when it was
                        voluntary on the part of blacks. See Edgerton, History of the Separation,
                        134,138.
               
                  25 Stephen B. Weeks, Southern Quakers and Slavery: A Study in
                            Institutional History (
                            Baltimore
                        , 1896), 232–33; William Parker to Josiah Parker, July 26,1826, box 1,
                        Josiah Parker Papers (Friends Collection); Edgerton, History of the
                        Separation, 295; Coffin, Reminiscences, 159. In 1840 the well–known abolitionist
                        Sarah M. Grimké wrote that Friends were reluctant to receive black members because
                        under the Discipline they would have to marry within the Society and no white person would marry
                        them. Thus when they married non–
                            Quaker
                         blacks they would face the loss of their membership. See Cadbury, "Negro
                        Membership," 179.
            
            
            We also have evidence that Friends were more accepting of lighter–skinned people of color
                    than darker ones. Mary C. Thorne, an Orthodox Friend in 
                  Clark
                            County, Ohio
               , remembered that
                    in 1856 her family sheltered a fugitive slave. "She was quite superior to the ordinary
                    class of persons whom we had met in that way: in the first place she was white with light brown
                    straight hair," Thorne wrote. "Her eyes were gray with a quick nervous flash about
                    them that took in her surroundings at a glance." The family was so taken with her that she
                    remained with them until her death sixteen years later.26
            
            For many, the most perplexing aspect of the relationship between African Americans and Quakers was
                    the extremely small number of blacks who joined the Society of Friends. This was a cause of concern
                    for visiting English Friends. In 1819, for example, a traveling Friend visiting eastern 
                        Ohio
                     asked Quakers there "whether Black People were admitted in Friends Society.
                    The answer they returned was that some of their members were opposed to it, but those only that were
                    prejudiced against them by education." There were some black members, however. The English
                    ministers Robert and Sarah Lindsay, visiting 
                  Cass County,
                            Michigan
               , in 1858, recorded that in the
                    Birch Lake Meeting, "one of their members is a coloured man; others of the same race were
                    present." Richard Chopple, a black member of the 
                        New Garden
                     Monthly Meeting in 
                        Wayne County
                    , Indiana, died in 1848 at the reputed age of 107. The fervent abolitionist Rebecca L.
                    Fussell, attending the Orthodox meeting in 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, just after the separation in 1842, recorded that an
                    African–American woman who was a member at 
                        Spiceland
                     was given a place of honor at the front of the building and spoke during meeting for
                    worship. But such cases were few. Racism may have been a factor. In 1859 and 1860, William Tallack,
                    an English Friend traveling in America, noted that Friends in 
                        Richmond
                     explained the lack of black interest in becoming Quakers on the basis of the inability
                    of blacks "to appreciate the abstractions and refinements of our spiritual views."
                    Another cause may have been the traditional 
                        Quaker
                     reluctance to proselytize; Friends were not interested in attracting large numbers of
                    new members. And potential converts attracted by Friends' relative enlightenment on racial
                    matters may have found silent worship and 
                        Quaker
                     peculiarities more than they wished to embrace.27
            
            
               
                  26 Mary C. Thorne to Siebert, March 3, 1892, box 103, Siebert Papers.
               
                  27 Robert and Sarah Lindsay Diaries, August 3, 1858, vol. 1, 224 (Library
                        of the Religious Society of Friends, 
                            London
                        ); Cadbury, "Negro Membership," 183, 186; William Tallack, Friendly Sketches in
               
            
            
            Still, for every example of individual prejudice we have just as many indicating more enlightened
                    views. It may mean something that Elijah Coffin never published "On Home
                    Colonization." He recorded in his diary that the atmosphere of the Meeting for Sufferings
                    session that condemned the black exclusion provision of the pending Indiana constitution in 1850 was
                    "low," suggesting that the protest was more than just pro forma;
                    Friends were genuinely disturbed. The fear of African–American immigrants on the part of
                    some Friends did not prevent others from welcoming new arrivals, even after such immigration became
                    illegal in Indiana in 1851. At times we see Friends struggling with their prejudices. A good example
                    is the 1826 report of the Committee on the Concerns of the People of Color on the emigration of free
                    blacks from 
                        North Carolina
                    . The report conceded the possible desirability of avoiding "an accession of
                    this class of population as neighbours," but then added that the committee members were
                    "concerned to impress the minds of Friends that our prejudices should yield to the
                    interests and happiness of our fellow beings, and that we exert no influence that would deprive them
                    of the rights of free Agents in removing to any part of the world most congenial to their
                    interests." Similarly, an Orthodox Friend (probably Elijah Coffin) responded to criticism
                    from Anti–Slavery Friends in 1843 by admitting that "there may be too much
                    prejudice among us," but, insisting, "if there is, we have reason to hope and
                    believe that there is a disposition to be corrected, when convinced, and to endeavor to come to the
                    right standard."28
            
            Friends carried this resolve to struggle against prejudice into their personal relationships. There
                    is no indication that Friends in the Midwest ever segregated their few black members and visitors.
                    The surviving records of 
                        Quaker
                     graveyards in Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     indicate that they were not segregated by race. Levi Coffin recorded that he caused
                    consternation in taverns in 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     by insisting on sitting at the same table as his free black traveling companion, and
                    implied that such behavior was common among Friends. When English Friend John Candler visited a
                    Quaker family in 
                        Parke County
                    , Indiana, in 1853, he found that the wife of his host "was gone from 
                  
                     America (
                                London
                            , 1861), 52; Rebecca Fussell to Graceanna Lewis, December 6, 1842, box 3,
                            Graceanna Lewis Papers (Friends Historical Library, Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Penn.);
                            Richard Chopple obituary, Western Friend, October 12, 1848, 363.
                  
                     28 Mary Coffin Johnson, M. Morris White,
                                1830–1913 (
                                New York
                            , 1917), 35–37; Johnson, ed., life of Elijah
                            Coffin, 80; John Davis to Trustees of 
                                North Carolina
                             Yearly Meeting, October 3,1826, Meeting for Sufferings Papers; Edgerton,
                            History of the Separation, 148; Indiana Yearly Meeting
                            Minutes, 1826, 13–14.
               
                     home to assist in a quilting in the house of a colored
                    neighbour, where a company of the new settlement women had gone for an afternoon to assist in making
                    a new quilt, and to sup together." Another English Friend, Joseph Crosfield, attending the
                    Western Yearly Meeting in 1865, wrote home that he was sharing quarters with "a colored
                    Friend…, an intelligent man, with whom I have had much conversation. … We do
                    not however allow him to eat at the same table with us, but however the table was full before he
                    came." Crosfield apparently considered racial prejudice laughable. Nathan Coggeshall, a
                    Friend in 
                        Grant County
                    , Indiana, remembered that as a young, unmarried man he had often shared a bed with a
                    fugitive slave his family was sheltering. The oldest known letter we have from an African American
                    in Indiana, dated 1829 and written to a 
                        North Carolina
                        Quaker
                     woman, is written in terms that suggest friendliness and first–name
                    familiarity, not deference. A brief account from a black man born in 
                        Grant County
                     in 1857 affirms his memories of 
                        Quaker
                     kindness and charity: visiting schools, providing clothing and shoes for needy pupils,
                    supplying meat and other provisions without concern for payment. "The Friends were a great
                    and good people," he concluded. "My oldest brother and I were both named for
                    Friends, and that shows what my parents thought of them."29
            
            What may be most striking is what is missing from the records. The correspondence and diaries of
                    numerous Indiana Friends examined for this article contain many references to African Americans as
                    impoverished, ignorant, and degraded, but almost never were these failures attributed to any innate
                    racial characteristic, even when the Friends were clearly vexed by complaints from former slaves
                    they were shepherding north in the 1820s, or by lack of cleanliness and punctuality among the freed
                    people they were 
                  
                     29 Coffm, Reminiscences, 121–25; A Friendly
                                Mission: John Candler's Letters jrom America, 1853–1854 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1951), 47;Joseph Crosfield to Children, September 16, 1865, typescript, 52,
                            Joseph Crosfield Letters (Friends Library, 
                                London
                            ); Nathan Coggeshall interview, 
                                Marion
                             [Indiana] Leader clipping, box 79, Siebert Collection; Hannah
                            Elliott to Martha Parker, September 21, 1829, box 1, Parker Papers; Ellwood O. Ellis, Early
                            Friends in 
                        
                                    Grant County
                                , Indiana (1825–1913), ed. by Willard Heiss (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1961), 9; "Letter from a Young Woman of Color," Free Labor Advocate (
                                New Garden
                            , Indiana), October 8, 1841, 265. Burial plats for 
                                Quaker
                             graveyards in Indiana and 
                                Ohio
                             before 1860 are scarce. Seven were located as a result of researching this
                            article: the 
                                Bloomfield
                             Preparative Meeting in 
                                Parke County
                            , Indiana, the Rush Creek Preparative Meeting in 
                                Parke County
                            , Indiana, the White Lick Preparative Meeting in 
                                Morgan County
                            , Indiana, and the Mill Creek and Sugar Grove Preparative Meetings in Hendricks
                            County, Indiana, all in the Western Yearly Meeting Archives at Earlham; the Nettle Creek
                            Preparative Meeting in 
                                Wayne County
                            , Indiana, in the Indiana Yearly Meeting Archives; and the Miami and Springboro
                            Preparative Meetings in 
                                Warren County
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , in the Ohio Valley Yearly Meeting Archives.
               
                     teaching in the 1860s. Instead, Friends saw such faults as the
                    inevitable fruits of slavery and prejudice, and placed blame with the oppressors, not the
                        victims.30
            
            Thus the experience of Quakers and African Americans in the Midwest was complex. Some Friends
                    certainly did share the attitudes of the larger society; some, perhaps a majority, were simply
                    apathetic on issues relating to race. In the Ohio Valley, Friends of all
                    persuasions favored legal equality, and eschewed the segregation that characterized the world around
                    them. As Forrest Wood points out in The Arrogance oj Faith, "the Quakers
                    are easy targets because everyone has come to expect more of them."31
                    While by contemporary standards observers and critics can find much wanting, by comparison to the
                    rest of white American society between 1800 and 1870 midwestern Quakers were indeed "a
                    great and good people."
            
               
                  30 Schwarz, Migrants against Slavery, 145–46.
                        For 
                            Quaker
                         attitudes on these subjects, see William Parker to Josiah Parker, October 8, 1828,
                        box 1, Parker Papers; Meeting for Sufferings Minutes, November 25, 1850; Gershom Perdue Journal,
                        August 18, 1839, March 12, 21, 1841 (
                            Quaker
                         Collection, Wilmington College of 
                            Ohio
                        , 
                     Wilmington, Ohio
                  ); Perdue to William and Jane Grossman, November
                        1836, ibid.; James Jones to Richard Mendenhall, December 18, 1827, Meeting for Sufferings
                        Papers; Report of Indiana Yearly Meeting's Executive Committee for the Relief oj Colored Freedmen (
                            Richmond
                        , Ind., 1864), 15, 20–47; Rowland and Drusilla Reed to Hannah A.
                        Dickinson, April 18, 1867, Dickinson–Francisco Papers (Friends Historical Library);
                        Walter T. Carpenter Diary, January 11, 1864 (
                            Ohio
                         Historical Society); and Daniel Salamson, ed., "The Diary of Elkanah
                        Beard," Southern Friend, XX (Spring 1998), 20.
               
                  31 Wood, Arrogance of Faith, 287.
            
         
         
         
            Violence, Masculinity, Image, and Reality on the Antebellum Frontier
            RYAN L. DEARINGER
            
                    
                  It is a permanent and universal interest of mankind that men should not kill each
                            other; but the particular and momentary interest of a nation or class may in certain cases
                            make homicide excusable or even honorable. Honor is nothing but this particular rule, based
                            on a particular state of society, by means of which a people distributes praise or
                        blame.
                    —ALEXIS DE TOCQUEVILLE
               
                
            Tocqueville, perhaps the most prophetic and certainly the most cited nineteenth–century
                    foreign observer of American life, had more to say about the image, reality, and significance of
                    violence than scholars have recognized. Like many of his contemporaries who observed Jacksonian
                    America, he was puzzled by the ambiguous relationship between honor, violence, and social class,
                    particularly as it played out in the ritual of the duel. The refusal of a challenge to duel,
                    Tocqueville noted, was the only act he knew to be considered both honorable and dishonorable.
                    Viewing 
                  Ryan L. Dearinger is a history graduate student at Purdue University, West 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana. A portion of this paper was presented at the Paul Lucas Conference in
                            History, hosted by Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , on April 12, 2003. 1 first wish to thank three great mentors: Mark David Hall,
                            Kerry Irish, and Ralph Beebe of George Fox University. I am particularly indebted to Nancy
                            Gabin for her insights, guidance, and confidence in my work. Additional thanks go to John
                            Lauritz Larson for immeasurable wit and joyful criticism in all matters, and to Michael A.
                            Morrison and the Purdue History Department for everything. Finally, I thank my family for
                            endless love, motivation, and belief.
               
                    
                    
                  This dueling pistol is typical of those that were used on the antebellum
                            frontier.
                  They were not very accurate beyond short range and often missed their intended target.
                  Reproduced from Ben C. Truman, Duelling in America, ed. Steven 
                                Randolph
                             Wood (1884; San Diego, Calif., 1992).
                the custom as aristocratic and driven by insecurity and greed, he was, "astonish
                    [ed] to find that when honor is at the zenith of its power its rules are at their strangest;
                    apparently the further they get from common sense, the better they are obeyed." Tocqueville
                    saw little room for rules of honor in a democratic and expanding nation. Lacking both "deep
                    roots and strong influence," he wrote, these rules were "like a religion whose
                    temples are allowed to remain but in which no one longer believes."1
            
            As a peculiar and exclusive, yet infrequent, form of violence, the duel tells us much about who could fight, how they could fight, and the consequences
                    involved. Honor, autonomy, chivalry, and revenge—these and other factors have long
                    received the attention of scholars who, following Tocqueville, have investigated the social,
                    political, and psychological aspects of the American version of the code duello.
                    Far less noted has been the degree to which this form of violence helped elites distinguish their
                    standing and image from that of the "rough–and–tumble" lower
                    classes of the backcountry, thus setting the parameters for democratic opportunity. Few scholars
                    have critiqued the efforts of elites to legitimize the duel—including the unwritten rules
                    governing weapons and tactics, gentlemanly conduct, and even style of dress 
                  
                     1 Alexis de Tocqueville, Democracy in America, J.P
                            Thayer and Max Lerner, eds. (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1966), II, 581, 592–602. See volume II, chapter 18, for
                            Tocqueville's views on honor in the 
                                United States
                             and other democratic societies.
               
                     and language—as being completely at odds with the
                    Jacksonian ethic of spontaneous and uninhibited freedom from prescribed social, legal, and political
                    barriers. Moreover, the discrepancy between the image these men wished to secure and the reality of
                    their actions has been virtually ignored. The frontier "affair of honor" was often
                    conducted, portrayed, and construed in a manner inconsistent with the gentlemanly precepts that its
                    champions staunchly defended. This essay examines the identity of the frontier duelist as defined by
                    himself, his peers, perceptive travelers, newspaper editors, religious and political figures, and
                    fiction writers. Focused on the midwestern frontier, its primary subjects are elites, aspiring
                    elites, and their ostensible inferiors.
            The frontier region under analysis here includes southern and central Indiana, 
                        Ohio
                    , and 
                        Illinois
                    , as well as upland 
                        Kentucky
                    . Heavy migration to these areas began after the Revolution and was dominated by upland
                    southerners primarily from 
                  Kentucky, Tennessee
               , and 
                        Virginia
                    . Cultural geographers and historians recognize the Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                        Ohio
                     frontiers as southern cultural regions, extensions of the upland South distinguished by
                    their crops and livestock, housing types, food, religion, and dialect. Some historians have
                    demonstrated the extent to which subsistence–farming regions were loyal to the tenets of
                    Jacksonian democracy, while others have emphasized the influence of the
                    "civilized" Northeast and the "violent" trans–
                        Mississippi
                     West in the context of national expansion. Each of these concentrations tends to
                    overshadow the unique cultural customs of this middle frontier region. The impact of a
                    "Yankee diaspora" through 
                        New York
                     and the Western Reserve into the upper Midwest, for example, has led some historians to
                    argue that a select northern middle class, through its control of publishing, politics, the pulpit,
                    free–labor ideology, and bourgeois middle–class values, culturally dominated
                    the region in the antebellum era. As a result, Yankee notions of manhood, honor, and gentility have
                    obfuscated the breadth of the influences that went into cultural and social formation on the
                    frontier. As late as 1850, Yankee–born settlers from New 
                        England
                     and the Middle Atlantic states constituted only 8.8 percent of the total population in
                    Indiana, 17.4 percent in 
                        Illinois
                    , and 18.9 percent in 
                        Ohio
                    . Generalizations about "Yankees," "yeomen," or
                    "southern cavaliers," and recycled images of western violence and lawlessness,
                    distract from, rather than shed light on, the cultural and institutional trends that took shape in
                    the antebellum Midwest. They emphasize exceptions, not the rule.2
            
            
               
                  2 For masculinity and political culture, see Nicole Etcheson,
                        "Manliness and the Political Culture of the Old Northwest," Journal of the Early Republic, XV (Fall 1995), 59–77; Etcheson, The Emerging
               
            
            
            Frontier settlers, whether they were subsistence farmers, squatters, or wage laborers, shared an
                    antipathy towards both the southern planter class and "penny–pinching"
                    Yankees. This was particularly the case if the planters or Yankee's wealth was inherited
                    rather than earned. Superior status did not automatically transfer from the regions of provenance,
                    but had to be earned all over again on the frontier. The position of frontier elites was thus far
                    less secure in a region that was experiencing significant political, economic, and demographic
                    change; the result was tremendous social ambiguity and insecurity. Nevertheless, some folks rose to
                    a higher station. Those who did were likely to be legal, political, or medical professionals, or
                    aspiring elites, including younger, up–and–coming statesmen, professionals,
                    and farmers. The last group often won the support of a rural public hostile to excesses in wealth
                    and political power and devoted to a vigorous, self–governing brand of republicanism.
                    Higher status was acceptable on the frontier, as long as it was earned fairly. The parameters of
                    fair play were negotiated via competing notions of masculinity and honor. Sometimes, but not as
                    often as has been argued, violence was involved.
            This essay also addresses the paradoxical typology of lethal violence common to the antebellum
                    frontier, in the process challenging conventional ideas about the extent to which gentlemen duelists
                    were able to convince the public of their time as well as posterity that dueling was not only widely
                    practiced and accepted, but was also more manly and honorable than the disorderly
                    "roughhousing" engaged in by the lower sort. Portraying dueling as an exceptional,
                    ritualistic, symbolic, neurotic, and ineffective practice embraced by a marginal segment of frontier
                    society, this study compares the notorious custom to "common" violence that was,
                    arguably, more effective, more consistent with democratic principles, and equally governed by civic
                    parameters and conventional rules, hi offering a new lens through which to view the relationship
                    between violence, class, honor, and masculinity in a region emblematic of the democratic experiment
                    in westward expansion, 
                  
                     Midwest: Upland Southerners and the Political Culture of
                                the Old Northwest, 1787–1861 (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1996); and Joanne Freeman, Affairs of Honor: National
                                Politics in the New Republic (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 2001). For migration, cultural formation, and regional identity, see
                            Andrew R.L. Cayton, Frontier Indiana (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1996); James E. Davis, Frontier 
                                Illinois
                             (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1998); R. Douglas Hurt, The 
                                    Ohio
                                 Frontier: Crucible of the Old Northwest, 1720–1830 (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1996); and J. Mills Thornton, "The Ethic of Subsistence and the
                            Origins of Southern Secession," 
                        
                                    Tennessee
                                 Historical Quarterly, XD/III (Summer 1989), 67–85. For
                            Northern influences on masculinity, see E. Anthony Rotmfdo, American Manhood:
                                Transformations in Masculinity from the Revolution to the Modern
                            Era (
                                New York
                            , 1993); and Mark C. Cames and Clyde Griffen, eds., Meanings for
                                Manhood: Constructions of Masculinity in Victorian America (
                                Chicago
                            , 1990).
               
                     this essay considers the personal and regional realities that
                    have been eschewed or overlooked in favor of a violent, oversimplified, and romanticized frontier
                    image. Masculinity and honor, ideas imposed upon an expanding and diversifying society, were
                    severely threatened in their frontier setting.3
            
            To southern gentlemen—often statesmen, slaveholders, lawyers, or
                    professionals—dueling demonstrated uncompromising courage, stability, chivalry, calmness
                    under stress, and class superiority. None of this was lost on frontier elites. Southern elites
                    transplanted to Indiana, 
                  Illinois, Ohio
               , or 
                        Kentucky
                    , had trouble adhering to the image of both southern cavalier and western hero in a
                    region where violence was not a precondition for success and survival. The
                    midwestern gentleman's demeanor was often characterized more by anxiety than by reserve and
                    stoicism. "I fear I shall have to kill him before he will be at rest," Jonathan
                    Jennings told his brother–in–law prior to openly challenging Henry Hurst, a
                    court clerk, to a duel on the grounds that the latter was jealous of Jennings position in the
                    territorial government's land office. Hurst refused the challenge from Jennings, who later
                    became Indiana's first governor.4
                    
                        Kentucky
                    's beloved Henry Clay journeyed to 
                        Floyd County
                    , Indiana, for an 1809 "interview" with Humphrey Marshall, a fellow
                    member of the 
                        Kentucky
                     legislature, to settle with pistol and ball what they had instigated with oratory in
                    the statehouse. Nerves and pistol malfunctions left both gentlemen standing after firing two rounds,
                    and the third witnessed 
                  
                     3 Numerous scholars have studied the origins and consequences of
                            frontier violence in all of its forms, and yet those who have studied dueling have focused
                            primarily on the South and Southwest, where it had a greater tradition, following, and
                            frequency. Clayton Cramer's study of early concealed weapon laws touches on the
                            duel in Indiana and 
                                Kentucky
                            ; Dick Steward devotes a book–length study to dueling in 
                                Missouri
                            ; and Bertram Wyatt–Brown's latest book covers a few violent
                            escapades that made their way into 
                                Kentucky
                            . Clayton E. Cramer, Concealed Weapon Laws of the Early Republic:
                                Dueling, Southern Violence, and Moral Reform (
                                Westport
                            , Conn., 1999), particularly chapters 3, 4, and 6; Dick Steward, Duels and the Roots of Violence in 
                                    Missouri
                                
                      (
                                Columbia
                            , Mo., 2000); Bertram Wyatt–
                                Brown
                            , The Shaping of Southern Culture: Honor, Grace, and War,
                                1760s–1880s (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 2001), 57–79. Other analytical studies include Dickson Bruce,
                                Violence and Culture in the Antebellum South
                            (Austin, Tex., 1979); Jack Kenny Williams, Dueling in the Old South: Vignettes
                                of Social History (College Station, Tex., 1980); Kenneth S. Greenberg,
                            "The Nose, the Lie, and the Duel in the Antebellum South," American Historical Review, XVC (Winter 1990), 57–74. More traditional
                            studies include Don C. Seitz, Famous American Duels (
                                New York
                            , 1929); William Oliver Stevens, Pistols at Ten Paces (
                                Boston
                            , 1940); J. Winston Coleman, Jr., "The Code Duello in
                            Ante–Bellum 
                                Kentucky
                            " Filson Club Historical Quarterly, XXX (1956), 125–40.
                  
                     4 Dorothy Riker, comp., Unedited Letters of Jonathan
                                Jennings (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1932). For an excellent description of Jennings, his career, governmental
                            philosophy, and a history of early Indiana politics, see Cayton, Frontier
                                Indiana, chapter 9.
               
                     another misfire by Clay, whose minor thigh wound prompted his
                    party to terminate the meeting. 
                        Clay
                    's next duel was highlighted by an unwilling participant Qohn 
                        Randolph
                     of 
                        Virginia
                    ), another faulty pistol, consistently poor marksmanship, a torn coat, and a handshake.
                    "I do not fire at you, Mr. Clay!" shouted 
                        Randolph
                     as he fired his third shot into the air. The gentlemen met and embraced halfway, as 
                        Randolph
                     joked that his opponent owed him a new coat, and 
                        Clay
                     answered, "I am glad the debt is no greater."5
            
            Territorial politics on the old frontier were highly personal. Yet on the basis of merely anecdotal
                    evidence it has been argued that because dueling was inevitable, laws against the practice were
                    quickly adopted. Although the Indiana territorial legislature established fines of up to 250 dollars
                    as well as jail sentences of up to twelve months for challenging someone to a duel, these measures
                    do not necessarily indicate a great propensity towards dueling on the part of the
                    territory's earliest settlers.6 This argument fails to consider the
                    demeanor and concerns of the region's migrants, as well as the territory's
                    interest in attracting newcomers. As emigrants from the largest donor state to Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                        Ohio
                    , the backwoodsmen, squatters, "mechanicks," and farming families of 
                        Kentucky
                     contributed significantly to the southern character of this region. Nevertheless, the
                    culture they created was characterized more by cooperation than conflict. During his visit to the
                    frontier in the mid–1830s, Sir Charles Augustus Murray described "the Ohians
                        
                  
                     5 Coleman, "The Code Duello in Ante–Bellum 
                                Kentucky
                            ," 129–30. The original correspondence of the 
                                Clay
                            –
                                Randolph
                             duel is included in Seitz, Famous American Duels,
                            227–50.
                  
                     6 ln Concealed Weapon Laws of the Early Republic,
                            Qamer furthers the argument that such laws were not designed as a solution to violence in
                            general; they were, rather, designed to curtail a certain kind of violence that was, in
                            turn, "a side effect of a well–intentioned effort at reforming American
                            society." Attempting to uncover state motivation for adopting weapon laws, Cramer
                            argues that reformers tried to use laws to improve the morals of the masses but were
                            unsuccessful. Because the various legal consequences that states adopted to combat dueling
                            were contrary to popular culture, murder and manslaughter replaced the code as the method
                            for resolving insults (pp. 7, 139—41). Although provocative, this is an
                            ahistorical argument. Cramer fails to recognize that with the duel, he is dealing with an
                            infrequent, exclusive event. Murder, manslaughter, and even rioting, were much closer to the
                            norm. Various scholars have maintained (often with insufficient evidence, but at times more
                            convincingly) that violence was the defining element of frontier life, and decades of
                            movies, television, and pulp fiction have reinforced such assertions. Nonetheless, some have
                            sought a more realistic approach, and have taken into account many factors to contest the
                            thesis that Richard Slotkin has termed "regeneration through violence."
                            Violent generalizations still characterize much of the trans–
                                Mississippi
                             frontiers, but as for regions east of the 
                                Mississippi
                             (the focus of this study), to quote James E. Davis, "mounting evidence
                            points to frontier tranquility." Richard Slotkin, Regeneration
                            Through Violence: The Mythology of the American Frontier,
                            1600–1860 (
                                Middletown
                            , Conn., 1973); Davis, Frontier
                            
                                Illinois
                            , 304.
               
                     [sic]" as a "quiet, industrious, peaceable
                    people, carrying the 'republicanism of democracy' to its highest pitch."
                    These settlers, being "too far removed from the scene of action and not sufficiently
                    congregated in manufacturing or commercial masses to give to their personal feelings the bitterness
                    and personality so prevalent in the East," were more typical of the
                    trans–Appalachian frontier than were the hot–tempered duelists of lore.7
            
            Violence, particularly when it resulted in death, was an infrequent occurrence on the midwestern
                    frontier. In his first volume of the Western Monthly Review published in 1828 in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , editor Timothy Flint included an essay on "The National Character of the
                    Western People," in which he noted that in the 
                        Ohio
                     country "the annual number of deaths from violence … has been less,
                    in proportion to its population, than any other state in the Union." Novelist James
                    Fenimore Cooper, visiting the same region, observed that duels there were "less frequent
                    than in any other civilized country."8 And yet Cooper may have
                    introduced his own frontier archetype, the expert marksman and hunter Leatherstocking, a bit early
                    for the Ohio Valley. By at least one measure, firearms themselves were not a
                    matter of great public attention; a study of two 
                        Cincinnati
                     magazines from the 1830s recently led a scholar to conclude that education, not
                    hunting, received the most editorial space. Of the 356 articles published in the first three years
                    of the Western Monthly Magazine, only one was on hunting and a second dealt with a
                    shooting match. Western Miscellany, in its first year, devoted only two of more
                    than 300 articles to hunting. The former magazine, claiming that "we aspire to be
                    useful," contained no mention of dueling pistols, military weapons, or gaming strategies,
                    while the latter maintained that respect for the law and avoidance of violence was far more
                    characteristic of the West than the East. Frontier travelers expecting to witness the seduction and
                    vengeance of the wilderness that were popular themes in both country folklore and western fiction
                    were in for a surprise, as Flint suggested: 
                  
                     7 Mechanicks" referred to all those skilled in trades of the
                            time, such as blacksmiths, builders, and millers. Malcolm J. Rohrbough, The
                                Trans–Appalachian Frontier: People, Societies, and
                                Institutions, 1775–1850 (
                                New York
                            , 1978), 159; Charles Augustus Murray, Travels in North
                            America (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1839), II, 210–11.
                  
                     8 Timothy Flint, "The National Character of the Western
                            People," Western Monthly Review, I (May 1827–April
                            1828), 336; James Fenimore Cooper, Notions oj the Americans, Picked up by a
                                Traveling Bachelor (1828; 2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1963), II, 297.
               
                    
                    
                        If the inference were drawn, that the [western] people are generally quarrelsome and
                            murderous in their dispositions, no conclusion would be wider from the fact. A stranger
                            going into the regions with proper introduction, is astonished, and most agreeably
                            disappointed, to find the general aspect of society so pleasant, and the people so amiable
                            and respectable.9
                  
                    
                
            And yet, contrary to Flint's observation, the Ohio River Valley was not
                    free of violence, although such altercations as occurred were rarely lethal and typically
                    exaggerated, just as the duel was. Canal construction laborers ("navvies") worked
                    long hours for meager pay in terrible conditions, and were exposed to such diseases as malaria,
                    cholera, and tuberculosis. Alienated economically from the skilled labor market, they were seen as
                    offering mere "animal power" to prepare the ground for industrial production.
                    Marginalized socially from mainstream society, their drinking, cursing, gambling, and brawling was
                    viewed by their peers as anything but constructive. Violent clashes between canallers and local
                    residents were not uncommon; nor was the sort of roughhousing typical of the canal worker's
                    culture. Such behavior nevertheless does not entirely warrant British traveler James Silk
                    Buckingham's judgment that canal workers were "not merely poor, but…
                    drunken, dirty, indolent, and riotous, so as to be the objects of dislike and fear to all in whose
                    neighborhood they congregate in large numbers." Canallers found in sporadic violence what
                    historian Peter Way has called a "rough camaraderie" central to the culture of
                    "maleness" that served as a reaction to their social exclusion. Was elite violence
                    (as infrequent as it was) and behavior the only kind that could be "honorable"? By
                    whose definition do we limit the quality and accessibility of "maleness"? Such
                    questions are particularly relevant in areas and occupations where violence is thought to be
                        widespread.10
            
            
               
                  9 Cooper introduced Natty Bumppo, or Leatherstocking, in his first
                        backwoods novel, The Pioneers: or, The Sources of the Susquehanna, which sold
                        3,500 copies on the morning of its publication in 1823. Michael A. Bellesiles, "The
                        Origins of Gun Culture in the 
                            United States
                        , 1760–1865," Journal ojAmerican History,
                        LXXXIII (Summer 1996), 425–55, esp. 440; Flint, "National
                        Character," 336.
               
                  10 See James Silk Buckingham, The Eastern and Western States
                            oj America (3 vols., 
                            London
                        , 1842), III, 223–24; Peter Way, "Evil Humors and Ardent
                        Spirits: The Rough Culture of Canal Construction Laborers," Journal of
                            American History, LXXIX (Winter 1993), 1397–1428;.
            
            
            Scholars looking at another frontier occupational group—flatboatmen— have found
                    that 95 percent of the boats arriving in 
                        New Orleans
                     during the antebellum period listed Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , or 
                        Ohio
                     as their point of origin. Real life for western rivermen was far removed from the
                    exaggerated tales of Davy Crockett, Mike Fink, and other adventurous, hard–drinking,
                    violent frontier heroes (affectionately remembered as the "Alligator Horses" in
                    frontier novels and legends). By the 1820s, flatboatmen were responsible, educated, and religious,
                    and perceived themselves as family men who had given up their bad habits. They were
                    "Jacksonian Men," not by virtue of their reckless disposition or their freedom
                    from restraint, but due instead to their admission (or entrance) as "common men"
                    into the budding capitalist economy. Nonetheless, as Michael Allen argues, the myth of the Alligator
                    Horse came to provide Jacksonian America with an alter ego, a "darker side with which
                    law–abiding citizens could secretly identify even while following the norms of civilized
                    society." In reality, the Ohio River Valley was a safe and hospitable
                    place for dockers, railroaders, canallers, and flatboatmen, as well as for gentleman politicians,
                    lawyers and doctors. It was similar to the farming frontiers of 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana, and typical generally of the working–class culture of the
                    trans–Appalachian West.11
            
            
               
                        Illinois
                     may have been more susceptible to violence than its neighbors, due to its unusual
                    mixture of French, French–Indian, Indian, German, English, southern, Yankee, black, and
                    mulatto inhabitants, each representing different backgrounds, religions, occupations, and ideas
                    about justice. Nevertheless, Illinoisans, whether quieting political disputes, abolishing debtor
                    imprisonment, forming settlers' associations as a defense against large–scale
                    land speculators, or eliminating de facto slavery in state supreme court decisions, adhered to a
                    robust republicanism in which consensus usually precluded bloodshed. An 1810 territorial statute
                    that mandated the death penalty for anyone found guilty of killing his opponent in a duel was either
                    effective or unnecessary, for a state law of its kind was never adopted, and yet only one duel was
                    ever fought on 
                        Illinois
                     soil, in which the murder of 
                  
                     11 See Michael Allen, "The Riverman as Jacksonian
                            Man," Western Historical Quarterly, XXI (Fall 1990),
                            305–20; Allen, Western Riverman, 1763–1861: 
                                    Ohio
                                 and
                            
                                Mississippi
                            
                            Boatmen and the Myth of the Alligator Horse (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , La., 1990); Peter Way, "Evil Humors and Ardent Spirits,"
                            1418–28; Steven J. Ross, Workers on the Edge: Work, Leisure, and Politics in Industrializing
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1788–1890 (
                                New York
                            , 1985); and Timothy R. Mahoney River Towns in the Great West: The
                                Structure of Provincial Urbanization in the American Midwest,
                                1820–1870 (
                                New York
                            , 1990).
               
                     Alonzo Stuart justified the hanging of William Bennett in 1819.
                    A second duel, in 1842, was averted by the humor and ingenuity of Abraham Lincoln after accepting
                    the challenge of 
                        Illinois
                     state official James Shields. The origins, consequences, and ultimate meaning of both
                    of these incidents have since been distorted in a manner consistent with the assumptions of a
                    violent frontier where brave men used the duel to achieve positions of power, and where elite
                    violence exemplified a social hierarchy whose members sought to civilize a rugged and socially
                    immature society. Comparing the surviving accounts of these incidents to the scholarly work
                    thereafter reveals the numerous difficulties that accompany blanket statements and rash
                    generalizations of frontier violence, the images of its participants, and their relationships to
                    alleged inferiors.12
            
            The facts of the one duel that was actually consummated in 
                        Illinois
                     bear out the need for caution. Details of this 1819 encounter further deflate the
                    notion that violence was frequent, that its proponents were experienced, and that its motives and
                    results were the stuff of honorable gentlemen. In 1821 Gershom Flagg, the self–educated
                    postmaster of 
                  Edwardsville, Illinois
               , wrote a letter to his mother in which he described
                    the town and surrounding countryside as peaceful, with "very few deaths." He
                    mentioned a few petty crimes, robberies, and the public whipping of a man who had attempted to
                    "injure a Ladys [sic] character," the woman being awarded "3000 dollars
                    damages" by a jury of her peers. He also referred to the hanging of a man for murder. The
                    man was William Bennett.13
            
            In February 1819, Bennett's horse had broken into a cornfield owned by Alonzo Stuart, a
                    prominent young lawyer, prompting the latter to criticize Bennett's "poor
                    fences" and his horse's lack of "savior faire [sic]." When two of Bennett's friends, Jacob Short and Nat Fike, learned
                    of this they 
                  
                     12 Davis, Frontier 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 164, 212–13, 286–319; Carl J. Ekberg,
                            "Agriculture, Mentalité, and Violence on the 
                                Illinois
                             Frontier," 
                                Illinois
                            
                            Historical Journal, LXXXVIII (Spring 1995), 101–16. The
                            territorial statute is listed in Francis S. Philbrick, ed., The Laws of 
                                    Illinois
                                 Territory, 1809–1818 (Collections of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Library, Vol. XXV; 
                                Springfield
                            , 1950), 36. The Stuart–Bennett (misspelled
                            "Stewart") duel is mentioned in Cramer, Concealed Weapon
                            Laws, 83–84; and in Ben C. Truman, The Field oj Honor, Being a
                                Complete and Comprehensive History of Duelling in All Countries (
                                New York
                            , 1884), 78. The Lincoln–Shields challenge is mentioned in Steward,
                            Duds and the Roots of Violence, 126–27; and Truman, Field of Honor, 567.
                  
                     13 For two able accounts of the Stuart–Bennett duel, see
                            Steward, Duels and the Roots of Violence, 39–40; and Newton
                            Bateman and Paul Selby, eds., Historical Encyclopedia of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1907), I, 138–39. Barbara Lawrence and Nedra Branz, eds., The Flagg
                                Correspondence: Selected Letters, 1816–1854 (Carbondale,
                            111., 1986), 30–31.
               
                     persuaded him to challenge Stuart, whose high social status
                    presented a chance for all three men to climb a rung on the social ladder.14
                    Stuart was completely averse to the practice of dueling, and therefore was disinclined to accept the
                    challenge; considering that Bennett's reputation as a ruffian disqualified him as a
                    gentleman, to have fought with him would itself have been a violation of the code of honor.
                    Nonetheless, Stuart, with no intention of firing at Bennett, consented after Short and Fike promised
                    to load both rifles with powder but not bullets.
            Thomas Ford noted in his History of 
                            Illinois
                        
                (1854) that Stuarts death resulted from a sham duel that was arranged solely
                    to ridicule Bennett. An Indiana newspaper reported the incident on March 26, 1819: 
                        A man of the name of Stuard lost his life last week at Belleville [
                                Illinois
                            ], in what was intended to be a sham duel … The man who was to be scared, happened some how or other to get a bullet mixed with his powder,
                            and Stuard who was to act the part of the scaror [sic] was killed on the
                            ground. The weapons were rifles, and some fifty or sixty of the villagers went out to see
                            the sport.15
                  
                    
                
            Benjamin Truman, whose history of dueling in America, published in 1884, was one of the earliest
                    treatments of the subject, noted that it was the "boast of 
                        Illinois
                     that but one duel has ever been fought upon her soil." Since then, scholars
                    have used Bennetts subsequent execution to suggest that dueling had become unacceptable to the
                    people of 
                        Illinois
                    , and that the hanging had a symbolic quality which, in turn, thwarted the sort of
                    insults and 
                  
                     14 Each dueling party included at least one second, who, in consulting
                            with the duelist, was responsible for communicating the encounter (often in local
                            newspapers, always by word of mouth), arranging the specifics (time, place, distance,
                            weapons, tactics), maintaining fairness and order during the affair, and ensuring that the
                            challenger's "satisfaction" was met. The parties normally agreed
                            upon a doctor (typically a surgeon) to attend the encounter and give needed medical
                            attention. Surgeons judged the severity of the wounds and determined whether or not a
                            participant could continue.
                  
                     15 Thomas Ford, History of 
                                    Illinois
                                 from Its Commencement as a State in 1818 to 1847 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1854), 40 (emphasis in the original); 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Enquirer & Indiana Telegraph, March 26, 1819. Clayton Cramer, one
                            of the few scholars who has studied the duel in its frontier setting, referred to the
                            Stuart–Bennett encounter, but failed to link the duel to the 
                                Brookville
                             newspaper article, instead citing it as a wholly separate encounter, perhaps
                            because the writer had misspelled Stuart's last name.
               
                     impulses that led men to the "field of
                        honor."16 Whether or not this is true, it overlooks the fact that
                    the Stuart–Bennett duel was not only the last duel in 
                        Illinois
                     history but the first; that before and after this incident, violence
                    of the sort was nonexistent.
            In what almost became the second duel in Illinoiss history, when Abraham Lincoln as a young 
                        Illinois
                     legislator accepted an 1842 challenge from state official James Shields he wryly
                    remarked on the convenient proximity of the chosen field of honor—a sandbar on the 
                        Mississippi
                    —to the state penitentiary. The background to the Lincoln–Shields
                    encounter deserves close analysis for what it reveals about the inherent contradictions in the norms
                    of masculine and gentlemanly behavior in the emerging Midwest. In February 1842 the State Bank of 
                        Illinois
                    , which Lincoln staunchly defended in legislatorial debates, was forced to close, its
                    notes having become valueless. Shields, a Democrat acting in his capacity as state auditor, ordered
                    that the notes not be accepted in payment of taxes. The Whigs' response was immediate and
                    ruthless. They attacked the Democratic administration through Shields, who, next to Stephen A.
                    Douglas, was the party's leading young representative. Lincoln was the ringleader of this
                    derisive cabal. Writing under the alias of "Aunt Rebecca," an unpolished but
                    clever countrywoman who had "authored" previous letters to the editor of the
                    Sangamo Journal from "Lost Township," he blamed the financial
                    crisis on the Democrats, insisting that Shields's announcement was "a lie, and not
                    a well told one at that. It grins out like a copper dollar. Shields is a fool as well as a liar.
                    With him truth is out of the question." Lincoln next encouraged two friends, Mary Todd
                    (whom he had been courting) and Julia Jayne, to contribute criticism ridiculing Shields's
                    self–promoted image as irresistible to women. Lincoln biographer David Herbert Donald
                    affirms that Lincoln and his associates were "playing a dangerous game" with the
                    "Lost Township" letters.17 Shields, who became a state supreme
                    court judge, a commissioner of the U.S. Land Office, a decorated general in the Mexican War, and the
                    only senator to represent three different states (
                  Illinois, Minnesota
               , and 
                        Missouri
                    ), enjoyed a distinguished public reputation despite rumors that he was
                    hot–tempered, humorless, and a womanizer.
            
               
                  16 Truman, Field ojHonor, 78; Cramer, Concealed Weapon Laws, 82–83, has argued such.
               
                  17 David Herbert Donald, Lincoln (
                            New York
                        , 1996), 88–93. Donald provides a wonderful account of this political and
                        personal dilemma, revealing how the troubled young Whig lawyer violated his own principles by
                        engaging in slanderous newspaper propaganda (via his close relationship with the editor of the
                        Sangamo Journal), and drawing Mary Todd and Julia Jayne into the
                    fiasco.
            
            
            Lincoln's engagement in the politics of character assassination led to an embarrassing
                    compromise of his personal and civic principles. His behavior emphasizes the anxiety and insecurity
                    of frontier political culture. When Lincoln assumed full public responsibility for all of the
                    "Lost Township" letters, Shields responded in the Sangamo Journal, demanding "a full, positive, and absolute retraction of all offensive
                    allusions used in these communications." Privately, Lincoln admitted that, being
                    "wholly opposed to dueling," he would "do anything to avoid it that might
                    not degrade him in the estimation of himself and friends." Lincoln's immediate
                    concern for his reputation, which drove him to accept Shields's challenge, epitomized
                    Jackso–nian political behavior—behavior that was subsequently exaggerated by
                    scholars and the public alike to emphasize its hostile and vindictive aspects. Dr. Elias H.
                    Merryman, a "hot–blooded" young 
                        Springfield
                     physician and personal friend, persuaded Lincoln not to apologize to Shields on
                    September 22, and the duel was set. With his right as the challenged party to choose the weapons,
                    Lincoln selected "cavalry swords of the largest size," which ridiculously
                    terminated the affair as Shields was much shorter than he.18 Lincoln further
                    stipulated the following rules: 
                        
                     Position – A plank ten feet long, & from nine to twelve
                            inches broad to be firmly fixed on edge, on the ground, as the line between us which neither
                            is to pass his foot over upon forfeit of his life. Next a line drawn on the ground on either
                            side of said plank & parallel with it, each at the distance of the whole length of
                            the sword and three feet additional from the plank … the passing of this own such
                            line by either party during the fight shall be deemed a surrender of the contest.
                    
                
            Lincoln had crafted a plan that would almost certainly guarantee victory without bloodshed. The
                    parties crossed the Mississippi River into 
                  Alton, Missouri
               ,
                    threatened as they were with impending arrest in 
                        Illinois
                    , whose 
                  
                     18 Shields excerpt from the Sangamo Journal is
                            quoted in Donald, Lincoln, 91; Lincoln's private response, Merryman's
                            involvement, and Donald's insightful argument are detailed on pages
                            91–93. Most recently, Wyatt–
                                Brown
                             and Freeman have astutely emphasized the connection between honor, character,
                            and revenge, and the importance of each to American political culture. Wyatt–
                                Brown
                            , Shaping oj Southern Culture; Freeman, Affairs
                                of Honor.
                  
               
                     state constitution had criminalized dueling with a penitentiary
                    sentence of one to five years. The double–edged cavalry "dragoon"
                    broadsword was awkward and heavy, and while Lincoln had practiced for nearly a month to perfect his
                    technique, Shields had not. The duel never occurred. Lincoln, emboldened by his broadsword prowess,
                    later claimed, "I did not intend to hurt Shields unless I did so clearly in
                    self–defense," for, if necessary, "I could have split him from the
                    crown of his head to the end of his backbone."19
            
            Despite its peaceful outcome, the affair seems to have remained a painful memory throughout
                    Lincoln's political career. He had defied his conscience, party discipline, and the law.
                    Neither Lincoln nor his close friends spoke of it afterward. Donald argues that Lincoln's
                    later tendency to satirize himself was a direct consequence of the undisciplined humor and personal
                    castigation exploited in the "Lost Township" letters.20 Was it
                    that a significant transformation of accepted "gentlemanly" and
                    "masculine" behavior concerning conflict resolution had gradually taken place?
                    Could it be that the 
                        Virginia
                     cavalier tradition with its auxiliary Jacksonian knee–jerk aggression
                    —above all, the spontaneous, uninhibited reaction to all personal insults—
                    came to assume an increasingly uncomfortable, anachronistic position on the antebellum frontier?
                    Whatever he thought of the duel itself, Lincoln's decision to expose its absurdities at the
                    time should lead us to question arguments by historians who have stressed the reciprocal importance
                    of honor, character, and revenge to the early American political tradition.
            Both encounters, Stuart–Bennett and Lincoln–Shields, were typical of the
                    frontier duel. The former was provoked by insults to a horse, micro–managed by the
                    wronged party, subverted by a gentleman whose intention was only to scare his opponent, and
                    conducted in the open. The latter was meticulously crafted by a struggling young Whig lawyer who,
                    although holding a lopsided advantage, was willing to surrender the contest by virtue of a foot
                    fault. Neither Bennett nor his seconds, who escaped conviction but not ridicule, garnered the
                    honorable status they had coveted. Lincoln's aborted duel with Shields, although devoid of
                    violence, was of a similar ilk: Lincoln insulted and provoked a social superior, reluctantly
                    consented to arms, and 
                  
                     19 The dueling rules laid out by Lincoln are quoted in Douglas L.
                            Wilson, Honor's Voice: The Transformation of Abraham Lincoln (
                                New York
                            , 1999), 280–83, as well as in Donald, Lincoln, 92.
                            Both parties agreed that their differences were more political than personal, and thus
                            terminated the affair.
                  
                     20 Donald, Lincoln, 88–93.
               
                     made every effort to undermine the legitimacy of a code that was
                    more egoistic than honorable.
            Travelers to 
                        Illinois
                     in this era were intrigued by the methods of the regions pioneers, both
                    lower– and upper–class, in resolving conflicts. While violence was generally
                    rare, it did capture the notice of some observers. William Blane, upon visiting Albion County in the
                    1820s, noted that "a custom much to be blamed among the better class in the Western States
                    is that of wearing of concealed weapons." He was also struck by the rough tactics of the
                    backwoodsman, whereby "the object is to take his adversary by surprise; and then, as soon
                    as he has thrown him down, either to 'gouge' him, that is, to poke his eye out, or
                    else to get his nose or ear into his mouth and bite it off." Some scholars maintain that
                    this "savage" and "inferior" mode of fighting, so disdained by
                    elites, had its own "culture" of honor, and that it was more manly, more
                    democratic, and more typical of frontier regions where hunting, herding, unskilled labor, and
                    semisubsistence agriculture predominated.21 These frontiersmen with their
                    rough–and–tumble behavior, along with the canallers and rivermen, set the
                    parameters of manly honor and were the chief transmitters of the frontier's violent
                    culture; elites struggled to match the standard set by their social inferiors. Napoleon Murat noted
                    in 1826 that disputes among western squatters were "amicably terminated by the
                    fist." Other observers noted that community–sanctioned meetings, including
                    "some of the most prominent men in the county," were settled
                    "fairly" in "fisticuffs" style without "resorting to
                    knives or pistols," and often ended in handshakes, drinking, and "good
                    times." Such reports give us a clearer picture of the character of frontier violence, in
                    which republican restraint and deference to community norms minimized its lethality. After examining
                    the records, 
                        Illinois
                     historian James E. Davis declared, "Not one scintilla of evidence suggests
                    that a combatant ever limped away, returned with a gun, and fired at an opponent."22 Such evidence challenges deep–seated stereo–types 
                  
                     21 William Blane, An Excursion Through the 
                                    United States
                                 and 
                                    Canada
                                 During the Years 1822–23 (1824; 
                                New York
                            , 1969), 161, 305; Elliot J. Gom, "'Gouge and Bite, Pull Hair
                            and Scratch': The Social Significance of Fighting in the Southern
                            Backcountry," American Historical Review, XC (Winter 1985),
                            18–43; and Greenberg, "The Nose, the Lie," 62–63,
                            66–74.
                  
                     22 Achille [Napoleon] Murat, The 
                        
                                    United States
                                 of America (
                                London
                            , 1833), 53; J.C. McBride, Past and Present of 
                                    Christian County
                                , 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1904), 74–75; John W. Smith, History of 
                                    Macon County
                                , 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                Springfield
                            , 111., 1876), 156; and Davis, Frontier 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 286–87.
               
                     concerning the nature of class, honor, masculinity, and
                    opportunity in American history.
            Both Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                     passed dueling oath measures that included legislators, civil and military officials,
                    judicial branch employees, and lawyers, as well as laws against carrying concealed weapons, such as
                    dirks, pistols, large knifes, and sword–in–canes for all persons except
                        travelers.23 Linking the concealed–weapon laws directly to
                    dueling, and citing the numerous revisions of the dueling oaths that exempted lawyers and other
                    groups from expulsion as evidence of the honor code's prevalence, some scholars maintain
                    that legislation to control dueling resulted in more instances of outright
                    manslaughter. Dueling, however, was not necessarily the chief concern that prompted
                    concealed–weapon statutes as the listing of crude weaponry and the exemption of travelers
                    suggests. Gentlemen solved disputes at ten paces with pistols that were not
                    concealed, and travelers may have sported pistols to confirm their social superiority amid the lower
                    orders of the frontier backwoods. Moreover, the vagueness of the term "traveler"
                    may have protected duelists, many of whom crossed state lines in order to duel. The argument that
                    anti–dueling laws increased manslaughter is interesting in that it divorces the image of
                    the duel as an honorable and chivalrous affair from that of the callous and uncivilized violence
                    that elites dismissed as less sophisticated, less manly, and less honorable. But less sophistication
                    did not mean greater mortality rates; it simply meant more physical contact, which required greater
                    courage. 
                        Kentucky
                     lawyer William Preston noted that of his boyhood friends, "some twelve or
                    fourteen have perished in violent affrays 
                  
                     23 The Indiana act adopted in 1820 stated that "any person
                            wearing any dirk, pistol, sword in cane, or any other unlawful weapon, concealed, shall be
                            deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not
                            exceeding one hundred dollars, for the use of county seminaries: Provided
                                however, that this act shall not be so construed as to affect travelers";
                            Laws of Indiana, 1820, p. 39. The act was amended in 1831 so that
                            seminaries would no longer receive the fines. Indiana's dueling oath requirement
                            was passed in 1816, expanded in 1818, and revised in 1820 to exclude lawyers; Laws of Indiana, 1818, pp. 362–65. The 
                                Kentucky
                             concealed–weapon statute, adopted in 1813, stated that "any
                            person in this commonwealth, who shall hereafter wear a pocket pistol, dirk, large knife, or
                            sword in cane, concealed as a weapon, unless when traveling on a journey, shall be fined in
                            any sum, not less than one hundred dollars. …"; Acts for
                                the Commonwealth of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 1813, pp. 100–101. The dueling oath requirement was passed
                            in 1812, and included "all members of the legislative, executive, and military
                            departments as well as members of the bar" as those who would swear that they had
                            not participated in any way in a duel; Acts for the Commonwealth of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 1814, pp. 119, 147–48. As Cramer points out, the effective
                            date of this law was often disingenuously misinterpreted, and revisions were enacted that
                            allowed lawyers (major participants in duels) to continue practicing. Cramer, Concealed Weapon Laws, 60n.
               
                     in the streets, and I have never known one who fell in fair and
                    honorable duel."24 As Ebenezer Stedman, a papermaker from central 
                        Kentucky
                     noted in his diary, not only was "the practice of Gouging &
                    Biting" universal on the frontier, it was "Considered the ondly way of ending the
                    Fight." "No revolvers [were] then thought of," for as Stedman argued,
                    "These ware the Days when men ware not so Sientifick [sic] in settling
                    their disputes."25
            
            There was nothing natural or self–evident about limiting the entitlement of gentlemanly
                    honor to a certain class on the midwestern frontier. Frontier elites lived in a society where
                    instability greatly overshadowed any clear division of class. A veneer of masculinity and
                    respectability was threatened by a social ambiguity that led many Europeans to praise America as a
                    classless, egalitarian republic. If violence was a means to distinguish aspiring elites from the
                    lower orders of society, it failed miserably. Duels, riots, workplace militancy and other examples
                    of violent behavior do not necessarily represent explicit divisions on the social ladder. It was
                    insecurity, not destiny, that was manifest in this moving, settling, and industrializing nation
                    —a fact that observers of the time readily noted. Cultural norms and institutions were
                    threatened, and behavior was often unpredictable, a recipe for disaster for historians who hate it
                    when their subjects do not act the way they should. James Fenimore Cooper, pretending to be a
                    European in his Notions of the Americans, admitted that "so singular a
                    compound of intelligence, kindness, natural politeness, coarseness, and even vulgarity"
                    left him "utterly baffled in the attempt to give them a place in the social
                    scale." Karen Halttunen has gone even further, arguing that the "American
                    democrat" occupied no fixed social position, and thus "no status in the strict
                    sense of the term."26
            
            
               
                  24 Among the scholars who have argued that concealed weapon laws were
                        directly related to dueling is Cramer, Concealed Weapon Laws. On the link
                        between anti–dueling laws and an increase in outright homicide, Cramer is joined by
                        Robert 
                            Ireland
                        , "The Problem of Concealed Weapons in Nineteenth–Century 
                            Kentucky
                        ," Register of the 
                                Kentucky
                             Historical Society, XCI (Winter 1993), 370–85; Report of the Debates and Proceedings of the Convention for the Revision of the Constitution of the State of 
                                Kentucky
                            , 1849 (
                            Frankfort
                        , Ky, 1849), 822.
               
                  25 Frances Dugan and Jacqueline Bull, eds., Bluegrass Craftsman: Being the Reminiscences of Ebenezer Hiram Stedman, Papermaker,
                            1808–1885 (
                            Lexington
                        , Ky., 1959), 32–33.
               
                  26 Cooper, Notions of the Americans, I, 478. In Manhood and the American Renaissance (
                            Ithaca
                        , N.Y., 1989), David Leverenz charts the way that masculine ideals affected
                        antebellum writers, and in doing so argues ineffectively for distinct class divisions. He also
                        argues that men fought within male
            
            
            
                    Because he lived suspended between the facts of his present social condition and the promise of
                        his future, because he held a vertical vision of life in an allegedly fluid and boundless social
                        system, he was plagued with anxiety concerning his social identity27
               
                
            Whether or not the frontier "code of honor" was protected by law or, conversely,
                    existed only because of the absence of law, it was at times difficult to discern the behavior of its
                    adherents from that of their alleged inferiors. When William Blane noted in 1822 that "the
                    Western Americans, particularly those of Indiana, are more rough and unpolished in their manners
                    than those of any country I [have] ever traveled in," he did not make clear whether he
                    meant westerners in general or a particular class among them. William Faux suggested one possible
                    division when he expressed his considerable relief upon entering the Hoosier state: "At
                    sun–rise I left 
                        Louisville
                     … well pleased to turn my back on all the spitting, gouging, dirking,
                    dueling, swearing, and staring of old 
                        Kentucky
                    ." Charles Augustus Murray later suggested that westerners who were
                    "rough, overbearing, and quarrelsome" could likewise be "brave, generous,
                    proud, frank, and hospitable." Attending the horse races in 
                        Louisville
                    , he was taken aback by "the swearing of some of the lower orders in the West,
                    especially among horse–traders and gamblers," that would "shock ears
                    … so full it is of blasphemy." In 1820, James Flint found "nothing in
                    human form so profligate" as the western boatmen he encountered: "Accomplished in
                    depravity, their habits and education seem to comprehend every vice. They make few pretensions to
                    moral character; and their swearing is excessive, and perfectly disgusting."28
            
            A number of scholars of riverboatmen and canallers in the Jacksonian era discount such
                    first–hand reports as exaggerations. Such scholars depict lives on the waterways as much
                    less reckless and violent than they were 
                  culture for the control of larger social norms and developments, and did so alone. This
                            runs counter to arguments by Mary E Ryan, Karen Halttunen, and others who have pointed to
                            the social, political, and cultural influence that women exerted in this period; see Karen
                            Halttunen, Confidence Men and Painted Women: A Study in Middle–Class
                                Culture in America, 1830–1870 (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1982) and works cited in note 31.
                  
                     27 Halttunen, Confidence Men and Painted Women, 192.
                  
                     28 Blane, Excursion through the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 276; Murray, Travels in North America, II,
                            211–12, 220; James Flint, Letters from America, in Ruben Gold
                            Thwaites, ed., Early Western Travels, 1748–1846 (32 vols., 
                                Cleveland
                            , 1904–1907), IX, 113.
               
                     ordinary and monotonous. To associate this
                    "profligate" behavior exclusively with the lower classes would be both unfair and
                    inaccurate. A bet on a horse race actually provoked a duel between two prominent statesmen in 
                        Logan County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , when Andrew Jackson won 10,000 dollars from the father of his challenger, Charles
                    Dickinson, who proceeded to insult the general's wife and "post" the him
                    as "a worthless scoundrel, poltroon, and coward." The verbal abuse cost Dickinson
                    his life, although a faulty pistol which snapped at half–cock, by rule counting as a
                    shot, granted Dickinson the opportunity to lodge a bullet into Jackson's chest that would
                    eventually contribute to his death. Lethal violence of any sort occurred too infrequently in the
                    frontier Midwest to justify D. H. Lawrence's famous remark that "the essential
                    American soul is hard, isolate, stoic, and a killer." One source after another reminds us
                    that actual crimes of violence were quite rare, and that the rural frontier saw nothing on the scale
                    of the mob actions (including seventy–three major riots between 1828 and 1835 alone) seen
                    at the same time in American cities.29
            
            Some observers of the time were quite attuned to the fact that violence—particularly of
                    the ritualized, gentlemanly sort—usually consisted of little more than posturing and
                    bluster. A 1819 letter signed "Squib" in the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Enquirer & Indiana Telegraph poked fun at what passed for gentlemanly
                    demeanor on the frontier, and in the process shed light on the importance of reputation. The writer
                    allowed that "learning in general, talents, honor, virtue, integrity, and
                    morality" were "passports into the first ranks" in some places, and that
                    "music, painting, dancing, and the like," were "held in high
                    estimation" in others. But, recognizing that such knowledge was far from universal
                    (antebellum Indiana ranked dead last in literacy and education among free states), Squib quipped
                    that to rise in frontier society an aspirant must follow a few "concise and irifaliable
                    [sic] rules" that would ensure an aspirant the "dignified elevation of a member of
                    the first society."
            
                    You must swear with energetic eloquence. This requires either a good invention
                        or a good memory, aided by a long and arduous practice; because variety in oaths is necessary to
                        make your conversation attractive, but chiefly because a beginner cannot avoid shuddering while
                            
                     
                        29 See Allen, Western Rivermen; Way;
                                "Evil Humor and Ardent Spirits"; Ross, Workers on
                                the Edge; and Mahoney, River Towns. The best accounts of the
                                Jackson–Dickinson duel are in Seitz, Famous American Duels,
                                chapter 8; and Coleman, "The Code Duello in Ante–Bellum 
                                    Kentucky
                                ," 128–29. D. H. Lawrence, Studies in
                                    Qassic American Literature (
                                    New York
                                , 1961). On urban riots, see Paul A. Gilje, The Road to Mobocracy: Popular Disorder in 
                                        New York
                                     City, 1763–1834 (
                                    Chapel Hill
                                , N.C., 1987).
                  
                         uttering the horrid oaths and blasphemous implications [sic]
                        necessary in conversation to shew the true gentleman, and render himself conspicuous.
                        … If the conversation is desultory, you may state your Bachanalian [sic] exploits, or
                        indulge in vulgar and obscene puns, or a recitation of blackguardisms. By this means you will
                        effectually put to flight every one that is not qualified for polished society. … At
                        all times and places, express an extraordinary sense of honor, and at the same time declare with the most unequivocal expressions, your
                        determination to wipe out every stain it receives by a challenge. Alas, be frequent and loud in
                        your complaints of the tyranny and oppression of the laws against dueling. By this means you may
                        be free from the apprehension of insults from fools or cowards [emphasis original].30
               
                
            In reducing the image of the duelist—an archetype of masculine self–sufficiency
                    on the antebellum frontier—to a single "how–to" list, this
                    outline of rules uses satire to expose the extent to which appearance, rather than action, underlay
                    cultural expectations for gentlemanly behavior. But such personal concerns also served the needs of
                    the public, at least as those needs were observed from above. As decades of feminist scholarship
                    have demonstrated, public spaces are theoretically open and accessible to all, defy exact boundaries
                    between male and female spheres, and threaten, rather than reinforce, sex–oriented
                        distinctions.31 While the masculine culture of honor has been attributed to
                    the political persona, military prowess, familial defense, and physical courage of a small group of
                    elite American men, it was attained more by image and appearance than action, and was thus more of a
                    creation than an empirical fact. Scholars such as Bertram Wyatt–
                        Brown
                    , Joanne Freeman, Mark Kann, and Dana Nelson have each suggested the extent to which
                    even the most established early American statesmen struggled to polish and inflate their public
                    reputations, with the latter two scholars, in particular, emphasizing the centrality of a white,
                    hierarchical masculinity that 
                  
                     30 The literacy/education information appears but is not cited in
                            Cayton, Frontier Indiana, 290. 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Enquirer & Indiana Intelligencer, March 5, 1819.
                  
                     31 For analyses of gender and public space, see Mary P. Ryan, Women in Public: Between Banners and Ballots,
                                1825–1880 (
                                Baltimore
                            , Md., 1990), esp. chapter 2; Ryan, Civic Wars: Democracy and
                                Public Life in the American City During the Nineteenth Century (Berkeley, Calif.,
                            1997); Halttunen, Confidence Men and Painted Women; and more recently,
                            Susan Sessions Rugh, "Civilizing the Countryside: Class, Gender, and Crime in
                            Nineteenth–Century Rural 
                                Illinois
                            " Agricultural History, LXXVI (Winter 2002),
                            58–81.
               
                     elites imagined would quell the excesses of democracy while
                    prescribing social and sexual boundaries.32
            
            On the antebellum frontier, then, dueling statesmen facing unpredictable social, political, and
                    economic changes responded by creating a facade of masculinity in keeping with what Halttunen
                    describes as the "theatricality" of middle– and upper–class
                    social life in nineteenth–century America. Frontier duelists were in this sense not
                    unlike Halltunen's parlor women, who ruled dress, etiquette, and social ritual by the
                    "sentimental typology of conduct"—that is, a set of rules that reduced
                    all aspects of social interaction to outward marks of inner character.33
            
            The ideological tenets and political emotions of Jacksonian America were strangely applied by men
                    seeking elite status on the antebellum frontier. The frontier duel was, in practice, often
                    antithetical to the intensity, simplicity, and immediacy that subsequent observers have so
                    inseparably linked to this violent period in American history. The code of honor was more expensive
                    and inconvenient than it was dangerous. With the Colt revolver not in mainstream circulation until
                    the late 1840s, and because imported dueling pistols easily exceeded the budget of an aspiring
                    frontier gentleman, many had to wait weeks for an heirloom set to arrive courtesy of a sympathetic
                    southerner. Henry Clay, for example, was known to loan his own set if the cause was just (although
                    with his shooting record, he should have been practicing). Most duelists resorted to bulky horse
                    pistols and 
                        Kentucky
                     rifles, which, even under optimum conditions, took a full minute to load and prime.34 In addition to criminal fines, dueling oaths (or anti–dueling
                        
                  
                     32 See Wyatt–
                                Brown
                            , The Shaping of Southern Culture; Freeman, Affairs of Honor; Mark E. Kann, A Republic of Men: The American
                                Founders, Gendered Language, and Patriarchal Politics (
                                New York
                            , 1998); and Dana D. Nelson, National Manhood: Capitalist
                                Citizenship and the Imagined Fraternity of White Men (Durham, N.C., 1998).
                  
                     33 Halttunen's Confidence Men and Painted
                            Women clearly aims to provide a more gender–neutral behavioral analysis
                            insofar as it concerns nineteenth–century Americans. Her work, perhaps more than
                            any other, deserves credit for blurring sex–specific conduct limitations that
                            many Americans still consider to be absolute. See esp. chapters 1, 2, 4, and 6; on the
                            "sentimental typology of conduct" see pps. 40–42, 58, 60, 144,
                            158–59, and 189. See also Nan Enstad, Ladies of Labor, Girls of
                                Adventure: Working Women, Popular Culture, and Labor Politics at the
                                Turn of the Twentieth Century (
                                New York
                            , 1999).
                  
                     34 The pre– and post–Colt eras are discussed in
                            Eugene W. Hollon, Frontier Violence: Another Look (
                                New York
                            , 1974), 118–20; and Bellesiles, "Origins of Gun
                            Culture," 83.
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Satisfaction, engraving by John Halpin, after painting by R.
                            W. Buss [Robert William], mid–nineteenth century. Courtesy the Division of
                            Graphic Arts, National Museum of American History, Smithsonian Institution, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C
                provisions) made the practice permanently expensive by prohibiting offenders from holding
                    positions of profit, and in some cases, requiring the survivor of a fatal duel to financially
                    support the family of the deceased. Typically, these men put more energy into their published
                    condemnations of enemies than their marksman skills, often delayed or ducked challenges, and
                    consented to duels not with the intention to harm their opponent but to seek
                    "satisfaction." For the minority who did arrive at the field of honor ready to
                    kill, the two alternatives were equally dishonorable. To shoot and kill was to lose honor in the
                    eyes of the community, to be labeled an "assassin," a "depraved
                    character," or as an 
                        Ohio
                     editor put it, a "poor bewildered coward" who, "afraid to
                    face ridicule from his fashionable circles … prefers to meet death and judgment rather
                    than encounter the laugh of a fool." To shoot and miss or have mechanical trouble and be
                    forced to improvise with rough–and–tumble tactics was perhaps even more
                    devastating for a  gentleman, for it associated him with his
                    inferiors, thus defeating the privilege of the duel.35
            
            In 1833 the long correspondence of two rival 
                        Kentucky
                     newspaper editors, George Trotter of the 
                        Kentucky
                    
                    Gazette and George Prentice of the Journal and Focus, was
                    published in papers across the Midwest. The two agreed on rifles at twenty–five paces,
                    but Trotter, "complaining of the want of vision," was able to negotiate fifteen;
                    objecting that this distance was still "too great for his sight," Prentice then
                    proposed that they fight with small swords, which Trotter deemed "too close." A
                    day later, when the duel finally took place, "the ball of Mr. Trotter's pistol
                    made a slight contusion on the side of Mr. Prentice, whose pistol snapped—after which
                    they threw their pistols at each other and engaged in an ordinary scuffle." Neither party
                    was injured. The Indiana Journal commented that "the manner of his attack
                    upon Mr. Prentice his warmest friends cannot pretend to justify or defend."36 Elite scuffles may have been free of injury, but not insult.
            To reconcile the honorable gentleman with the image of the self–sufficient, isolate, and
                    omnipotent frontiersman as was Cooper's Leather–stocking (and his numerous
                    descendents) required a tremendous leap of faith in that kind of religion "whose temples
                    are allowed to remain but in which no one longer believes," to quote Tocqueville. The duel
                    itself, as it was played out on the frontier, could hardly exist in fiction, where killers were far
                    removed from the complexities of politics, family relations, love, and work; where existence
                    required a repudiation of all worldly responsibilities in a setting of unanticipated dangers, and
                    where violence retained a certain innocence, devoid of all social consequences. The western novel
                    stripped its killer of all grudges, reducing the struggle to one of man against nature, while the
                    frontier duelist, unhappy with the nature of man, sought violent recourse to alter or strengthen his
                        worldly'image.37
            
            
               
                  35 Truman, in one of the earliest studies of the duel, argues that
                        legislation and/or governmental authority had the power to prohibit persons from making a
                        living, including political office. He quotes U.S. Senator Felix Grundy of 
                            Tennessee
                        , who argued that it was "severer punishment, in the eyes of some people,
                        even than ten years' confinement in a penitentiary." It could be for this
                        reason (and others) that political duelists often crossed state lines in order to duel. Truman,
                            Field oj Honor, 84–85; Elisha Bates, The Moral
                            Advocate: A Monthly Publication on War, Duelling, Capital Punishments, and
                            Prison Discipline (Mount Pleasant, Oh., 1821–22), 186.
               
                  36 The Trotter–Prentice duel was covered first by the 
                            Louisville
                         Public Advertiser, August 29, 1833, and subsequently by the Indiana Democrat on August 31 and the Indiana Journal on September 2.
               
                  37 Tocqueville, Democracy in America, II, 581; David
                        Brion Davis, Homicide in American Fiction: A Study in Social Values,
                            1798–1860 (
                            New York
                        , 1957); Slotkin, Regeneration Through Violence.
            
            
            South Carolinian George McDuffie, a state senator and loyal Calhounite, appeared in
                    Trotter's 
                        Kentucky
                    
                    Gazette more than ten times in seven years, for three separate
                    "incidents" that landed him on the field of honor but once. Doubt was cast on his
                    appearance in the news as "ferocious and insatiable, cold–blooded and
                    heartless" when his first opponent noted that the gentleman's dress was
                    "calculated to repel or divert a bullet," made as it was of "folds of
                    thick silk." Lightly grazed by a bullet in the arm, McDuffie convinced his surgeon on site
                    to announce him "incapable of standing a second shot"—an act that his
                    opponent's party described as "infamous and dishonorable." In his second
                    encounter, McDuffie challenged General Thomas Metcalfe to "an interview …in the
                    mode customary among gentlemen," only to object for weeks to the choice of weaponry,
                    "never having fired a rifle in his life"—although, as the challenger,
                    the decision was out of his hands. In 1829, McDuffie, after denigrating his opponent's home
                    state, accused 
                        Missouri
                     Congressman Edward Bates of "poor shooting," of "bracing of
                    cowardly nerves with artificial stimulants," as well as the "liberal use of strong
                    liquid"—all the while refusing to accept the congressman's
                        challenge.38 Perhaps the use of McDuffie by the 
                        Kentucky
                    
                    Gazette served as an object lesson for its frontier readers.
            In The Frontier Mind, historian Arthur K. Moore examined the extent to which the
                    "buckskin Kentuckian" influenced the cultural development of the West. Comparing
                    travelers' accounts to personal histories, secondary scholarship, and western fiction, he
                    reviewed a host of representations, including the "romance" and
                    "wilderness" myths of the frontier, as well as the Kentuckian as playful savage,
                    epic warrior, agent of progress, and child of nature. In this cultural analysis, Moore argued that
                    while the Kentuckian was a unique contributor to the social formation of the West, he was a
                    "great deal more complex than the simple–minded Indian fighter imagined in
                    frontier chronicles."39 Nonetheless, in a society unwilling to confront
                    its paradoxical and romanticized frontier legacy, the antebellum frontiersman stood at some distance
                    from reality, and was a "familiar disturber of the peace." "Accustomed to
                    see the steamboat with its prodigious and untiring power," wrote Timothy Flint,
                    "the Kentuckian draws his ideas of power from this 
                  
                     38 Portions of the McDuffie duels cited here were covered in the 
                                Kentucky
                            
                            Gazette—the first duel on August 1, September 5 and 26, and
                            October 10 and 17,1822; the Metcalfe duel on March 16,1822; the Bates duel on May 29. The
                            last also appears in brief in Steward, Duels and the Roots ojViolence, 50.
                  
                     39 Arthur K. Moore, The Frontier Mind: A Cultural Analysis oj the 
                                    Kentucky
                                 Frontiersman (
                                Lexington
                            , Ky., 1957), vii.
               
                     source; and when the warmth of whiskey in his stomach is added
                    to his natural energy, he becomes in succession, horse, alligator, and
                    steam–boat." Far from a meticulous journal entry, this reads more like a poetic
                    lampoon of the frontier myth and its impossible imagery. The 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Chronicle contributed to such imagery when describing a young Kentuckian in an
                    1838 article: 
                        I'm very like a whale, with a little shade of the big elephant, and slight touch of
                            the wild catamount; I'm a real catastrophe—a small creation, Mount
                            Vesuvius at the top, with red–hot lava pouring out of the crater and routing
                            nations; my eyes are two blast furnaces—tears red–hot melted
                            iron—and every tooth in my head a granite pillar; my feet are 
                                Virginia
                             plantations—legs,—branch rail roads of
                            whalebone—fists, Rocky Mountains—and arms, Whig liberty poles, with
                            cast steel springs. Every step I take is an earthquake—every blow I strike is a
                            clap of thunder—and every breath I breathe is a tornado. …40
                  
                    
                
            If midwestern frontier duelists were concerned mostly with saving face, to what do we owe the
                    longevity of their image as brave, self–sufficient upholders of manly honor? The answer
                    lies in part in the easy adaptability of the practice to the moral certitudes of fiction, where
                    killers were far removed from the complexities of politics, family relations, love, and work; where
                    existence required a repudiation of all worldly responsibilities in a setting of unanticipated
                    dangers; and where violence retained a certain innocence, devoid of social consequences. From
                    Cooper's Leatherstocking on, the western novel reconciled the ideal of the honorable
                    gentleman with that of the self–sufficient frontiersman, as it had developed in countless
                        folktales.41
                    
                  
                     40 Moore, Frontier Mind, 107; Timothy Flint,
                            Recollections of the Last Ten Years (
                                Boston
                            , 1826), 78; 
                                Cincinnati
                             Chronicle, January 13, 1838 (referenced more fully in Moore,
                            108–109). The "alligator horse" was taken from a Greek myth,
                            specifically that of the lascivious centaur, a creature half human and half horse.
                  
                     41 Only in fiction and the frontier imagination could the 
                                Kentucky
                             frontiersman join his social superiors as a contributor to a nation on the
                            move, and yet the bragging, fighting, Indian–hating frontiersman symbolized the
                            Jacksonian national expansion for which statesman elites assumed credit. Nonetheless, there
                            were serious contradictions in the representation of each. Daniel 
                                Boone
                            , perhaps the greatest example, was given character traits indicative of the
                            ambiguities inherent in cultural constructions of violence and masculinity. In the
                            definitive 
                                Boone
                             biography, John Mack Faragher exposes the limits and hypocrisy of the frontier
                            myth by chronicling the life of a man who was neither a violent loner nor a bloodthirsty
                            Indian fighter, but a community leader, real estate developer,
               
                    
                    
                  "Arrah, Now, My Honey! and That Shot You!"
                  Cartoons similar to this one, poking fun at the theatrical nature of dueling,
                            were an accurate reflection of public sentiment in the antebellum era. Unknown artist.
                            Engraving published in God's Revenge Against Duelling by Mason
                            Locke Weems (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1821).
                Writers stripped the duelist of his real–life grudges and insecurities, and
                    reduced his struggle to one of man against nature. Cooper, William Gilmore Simms, and many others
                    used justifiable vengeance to further the notion of progress through conflict, and to promote the
                    idea that some actions, while harsh, were necessary to prevent malice and wanton discrimination.
            The language with which dueling was documented in non–fiction has 
                  a family man and absentee husband, an adopted Shawnee Indian, and a hunter whose 
                                Quaker
                             upbringing taught him to respect life. With qualities both manly and
                            gentlemanly, 
                                Boone
                             was both a "civilizer" and "philosopher" in
                            the Jacksonian age of Indian removal where the "idea of negotiating on equal terms
                            with native peoples had become heresy." Moreover, in befriending and respecting the
                            very symbol of manifest destiny–the Indian savage–
                                Boone
                             upset the frontier myth, its violent exaggerations and social limitations.
                            Although folktales and exceptionalist ideals have celebrated his violent heroics, 
                                Boone
                            's life deflates the historical link between masculinity and violence.
                            John Mack Faragher, Daniel 
                                    Boone
                                : the Life and Legend of an American Pioneer (
                                New York
                            , 1992), particularly 320–62.
               
                     also limited our understanding of its place in antebellum
                    society. Elites were often the ones who reflected on the duel, wrote about it in newspapers and
                    journals, and felt obliged to defend its legitimacy and function in American society.
                    Upper–class men dueled to appear more manly while denouncing their social inferiors, who,
                    in adhering to the common–sense core of masculinity—sheer physical
                    courage—lacked the polish, the gentleman's grace of manner. Indeed, the lower
                    orders of society might be said to have embodied the physical realities of manhood while their
                    superiors, more dependent upon its image, compromised manliness with gentlemanly decorum. Yet, this
                    compromise was significant, for it promoted manners and integrity over aggression while still laying
                    claim to traditional masculine values of strength and bravery. Through such language, frontier
                    elites sought to distinguish "good" violence from "bad," and
                    thereby to justify their own claims to superior status in a fluid and uncertain social climate.
            As we have seen, however, violence on the frontier was infrequent; when it did occur it was rarely
                    lethal and occasionally quite farcical. The American frontier legacy and its central exaggerations,
                    particularly those that lay claim to a "violent heritage," have been transmitted
                    ahistorically. Despite scholarship maintaining that frontier relations in general were characterized
                    by cooperation as much as they were by conflict, and despite the availability of sources indicating
                    the skepticism with which people of the time often greeted pretensions of frontier honor, Americans
                    still picture the frontier as a place where gentlemen duelists fearlessly settled their differences
                    with swords and pistols. Clearly, this image favors the exception and not the rule.42
            
            The significance of examining more carefully the conduct and portrayal of frontier violence, both
                    real and imagined, is twofold. First, it reveals the difficulties and ambiguities that plagued rnen
                    seeking power in an expanding frontier society. The American democratic experiment opened the way to
                    a universal scramble for distinction in which many people, particularly elites, were doomed to
                    disappointment. Second, it compares the reality of frontier life to popular images in order to
                    dispute the notion that violence was frequent and inevitable, and that any one class or group of
                    people was respon– 
                  
                     42 For more recent attempts at implementing a cultural frontier
                            thesis, see David J. Weber, The Spanish Frontier in North America (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1992); Susan Lee Johnson, Roaring Camp: The Social World
                                of the 
                                    California
                                 Gold Rush (
                                New York
                            , 2000); and Albert L. Hurtado, Intimate Frontiers: Sex, Gender,
                                and Culture in Old 
                                    California
                                
                      (Albuquerque, N.M., 1999).
               
                    
                    
                  "But while in the act of aiming it, Cynthy threw a pillow in his face.
                            …" The Drama of Pokerville: The Bench and Bar of Jury town,
                                and Other Stories, by Joseph M. Field (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1847).
                sible for America's frontier heritage. The real history of the duel exposes much
                    of what is wrong with histories based on the violent, the elite, and the extraordinary. Not only was
                    this form of violence infrequent and ineffective, it was part of a desperate attempt by mainstream
                    Americans to become manly and honorable in a nation that has since been
                    celebrated—in books, movies, stories, political speeches, and images—as
                    superior for such "patriotic" qualities, even if gained through bloodshed.
            
            Appearance, at ground level, in the public eye, and in the minds of novelists, had more to do with
                    the fears and anxieties of a certain class of elite white men than with any abstract notion of
                    honor. These men who dueled to attain or maintain this honor had perhaps the least
                    control over it. Capitola Black, the heroine of E.D.E.N. (Emma) Southworth's popular novels
                    of the 1850s, exposed the ambiguity of the concept by humiliating her
                    "gentlemanly" challenger, Craven Le Noir, when she "raised her pistol,
                    took deliberate aim at his white forehead, and fired—Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang!
                    Bang!" striking him with "poor powder and dried peas," so that both the
                    gentleman and his beloved affair of honor were "beauty spoiled." In Joseph M.
                    Fields "The Great Small Affair Chastisement" (1847), a duel between adversaries
                    Dr. Slunk and Dr. Fitzcarol is thwarted by "Cynthy" a female slave of the former,
                    who, catching her master "in the act of aiming [the pistol] threw a pillow in his
                    face," thus embarrassing both gentlemen. In ridiculing both the code
                    duello and its self–seeking adherents, humorists like Field were not far from
                        reality43 An article in the March 1858 issue of Harper's New Monthly Magazine was representative of the public
                    sentiment for abolishing dueling. The writer accused dueling proponents of assuming that
                    "an argument made by a rhetorician might be unintelligible or inconclusive, but that a
                    syllogism propelled by powder, if properly aimed, could hardly fail to carry conviction to the
                    dullest intellect."44
            
            The last recorded duel in Indiana was prompted when editor William Terrell of the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier–Journal sent the dog of rival William Lingle of the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Journal out of his shop doused in turpentine and with cans tied to its tail,
                    causing it to jump into the Wabash River and drown. The two gentlemen resolved
                    their quarrel without firing a single shot, in a warm embrace and a "night of
                        partying."45
            
            A study of the motives and results'of ritualized personal violence on the American frontier
                    offers us an alternative lens through which to view the 
                  
                     43 E.D.E.N. Southworth, The Hidden Hand: or, Capitola the
                                Madcap, ed. Joanne Dobson (1859; 
                                New Brunswick
                            , N.J., 1988), 361–62; Joseph M. Field, The Drama oj
                                Pokerville: The Bench and Bar oj Jurytown, and Other Stories (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1847), 74–88.
                  
                     44
                            Harper's New Monthly Magazine, March 1858, quoted in Jeannette
                            Husey, The Code Duello in America (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1980), 6.
                  
                     45 Southworth, The Hidden Hand, 374–77.
                            An excellent account of the 1858 Terrell–Lingle duel can be found in Fred D.
                            Cavinder, The Indiana Book oj Records, Firsts, and Fascinating Facts (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1985), 65–66.
               
                     negative aspects of the cultural and democratic experiment in
                    westward expansion. Far from the devastating atrocities of war, slavery, lynching, and genocide, the
                    duel gives us a chance to separate the reality of frontier violence from its image. In many ways,
                    the frontier served as a great leveler for that small proportion of elite white men who struggled to
                    preserve an old tradition in a new environment. And yet, their dilemma ran deeper than their words,
                    pistols, and blows. These men struggled with their inability to impose exclusive views of violence,
                    masculinity, and honor on a rapidly expanding and diversifying population. In doing so, they were
                    far from emblematic of the frontier experience.
         
         
         
            Bringing Research to the General Public
            Results of the 2003 Indiana Magazine of History's Readers'
                    Survey
            KEITH A. EREKSON
            One year ago, subscribers to the Indiana Magazine oj History received a
                    questionnaire regarding the journal. Its main purpose was to gauge readers' opinions about
                    the magazine's content. Responses poured in; by the time I joined the editorial staff in
                    June more than one thousand of them had piled up in the IMH office.1 What
                    follows is a reflective analysis of the content of those responses. It draws both on numeric
                    data—which reveal significant trends and aggregates—and on hundreds of written
                    comments from individual readers, which highlight their unique interests and suggestions, their
                    views about history publishing, and their thoughts about Indiana and its history This report was
                    not'produced by a committee or a computer. Instead, it represents a personal perspective
                    that I hope can serve as the next installment of an ongoing "conversation" between
                    the readers and editors of the IMH. I also hope it will tell you something about yourself as a
                    reader, as a Hoosier, and as a part of a community devoted to carrying Indiana's history
                    into the twenty–first century.
            
               Keith A. Erekson is a Ph.D. student in history at Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        , and editorial assistant at the Indiana Magazine of History.
               
               
                  1 The numeric responses were entered into a computer database. Survey I.D.
                        numbers were assigned to each response, the number being stored electronically with the entered
                        data.
            
            
            
               Figure 1 Indiana Magazine of History Readers' Survey March
                    2003
            
            
            READERS RESPOND TO THE SURVEY
            The survey accompanying the March 2003 issue consisted of nine questions and an added space for
                    written comments (see Figure 1). The questions solicited readers' opinions about the
                    articles, book reviews, topics, and time periods covered by the magazine. The majority of the
                    questions asked readers to circle their opinion on a five–point scale ranging from
                    "agree strongly" to "disagree strongly" with "no
                    opinion" in the center. The surveys were sent to 8,142 subscribers; and, in the ensuing
                    months, 1,219 were returned, a response rate of 15 percent.
            The responses to the eight numeric questions are compiled in Table 1. Chart 1 summarizes graphically
                    the three questions that received the most uniformly positive response: numbers one, two, and eight.
                    Combining the "strongly agree" and "somewhat agree" responses
                    for these three questions, we see that 82 percent of readers enjoy most of the articles, 74 percent
                    like reading the reviews, and 73 percent would like to learn more about local history activities
                    around the state. Other questions yield more equivocal responses. A slight majority of
                    readers—52 percent—indicated that they usually read the magazine carefully.
                    Just under half—47 percent—agreed that they have decided to read or not read a
                    book based on its review in the magazine. Readers were evenly split on the question of whether they
                    are interested in reading about Indiana's neighboring states.
            In other cases, the pattern of readers' responses revealed interesting variations from one
                    question to the next. When plotted graphically, the responses to question four—which asks
                    if readers only glance through the magazine—and to question five—which
                    inquires as to whether they enjoy the IMH as much as they do Traces
                        of Indiana and Midwestern History—reveal high levels of both agreement and
                    disagreement, with relatively few responding "no opinion" (Chart 2). On the other
                    hand, responses to questions six and seven, designed to gauge interest in recent history and in
                    neighboring states respectively, form a smooth "bell–curve" pattern,
                    with the largest number of respondents declaring "no opinion" on question six and
                    "somewhat disagree" on seven (Chart 3).
            Readers did more than simply circle the numbered responses offered them. They thought about the
                    questions, puzzled over their nuances, and even rewrote them to their liking.2
                    In the spaces provided at the bottom of the 
                  
                     2 One respondent questioned the use of the word
                            "most" in question one. Another felt that question five was unclear, while
                            a third rewrote the question. Still another challenged the editors' choice of terms
                            by crossing out "Civil War" and writing in, "The War of Northern
                            Aggression!" Others seemed to believe that "Native Americans" and
                            the "frontier period" should have been separated in question nine. On
                            question nine, a respondent marked "no preference," but wrote in,
                            "just less on war, men, and politicians."
               
                    
                    
                  Table 1. IMH Reader Survey Responses, March 2003
                  
                     
                     Question 1
                     Question 2
                     Question 3
                     Question 4
                  
                  
                     Agree strongly
                     418
                     34.3%
                     398
                     32.6%
                     226
                     18.5%
                     112
                     9.2%
                  
                  
                     Agree somewhat
                     581
                     47.7%
                     504
                     41.3%
                     339
                     27.8%
                     324
                     26.6%
                  
                  
                     No opinon
                     93
                     7.6%
                     176
                     14.4%
                     376
                     30.8%
                     105
                     8.6%
                  
                  
                     Disagree somewhat
                     97
                     8.0%
                     97
                     8.0%
                     134
                     11.0%
                     319
                     26.2%
                  
                  
                     Disagree strongly
                     17
                     1.4%
                     25
                     2.1%
                     103
                     8.4%
                     318
                     26.1%
                  
                  
                     Blank
                     13
                     1.1%
                     19
                     1.6%
                     41
                     3.4%
                     41
                     3.4%
                  
                  
                     Total
                     1219
                     100%
                     1219
                     100%
                     1219
                     100%
                     219
                     100%
                  
                  
                     
                     Question 5
                     Question 6
                     Question 7
                     Question 8
                  
                  
                     Agree strongly
                     332
                     27.2%
                     131
                     10.7%
                     91
                     7.5%
                     431
                     35.4%
                  
                  
                     Agree somewhat
                     344
                     28.2%
                     269
                     22.1%
                     260
                     21.3%
                     451
                     37.0%
                  
                  
                     Noopinon
                     132
                     10.8%
                     316
                     25.9%
                     245
                     20.1%
                     175
                     14.4%
                  
                  
                     Disagree somewhat
                     280
                     23.0%
                     270
                     22.1%
                     305
                     25.0%
                     66
                     5.4%
                  
                  
                     Disagree strongly
                     103
                     8.4%
                     200
                     16.4%
                     287
                     23.5%
                     21
                     1.7%
                  
                  
                     Blank
                     28
                     2.3%
                     33
                     2.7%
                     31
                     2.5%
                     75
                     6.2%
                  
                  
                     Total
                     1219
                     100%
                     1219
                     100%
                     1219
                     100%
                     1219
                     100%
                  
               
                    
                        I enjoy most of the articles in the IMH.
                        I like reading the reviews in the IMH.
                        I have decided to read (or not read) a book, based on its review in the IMH.
                        I glance through the IMH, but don't usually read it carefully.
                        I enjoy reading the IMH as much as I do Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History.
                        I would like to see the IMH publish more research on present–day Indiana.
                        I would be interested in reading more articles about Indiana's neighboring states.
                        I would like to leam more about local–history activities around the state.
                     questionnaire and in questions six, seven, and nine, 711 respondents (58.3 percent) wrote
                    more than one thousand comments.3 Their responses add a depth and complexity to
                    the numeric answers, highlighting the interests, tensions, concerns, and values that readers bring
                    to the IMH. While readers often agreed, they were just as likely to contradict and challenge one
                    another.
            
               
                  3 Of the 1,219 surveys returned, 177 (14.5 percent) included a written
                        comment after question six, 359 (29.5 percent) after question seven, 160 (13.1 percent) after
                        question nine, and 365 (29.9 percent) added comments at the bottom. Many readers wrote comments
                        in more than one space, so that the total number of comments, 1,061, exceeded the number of
                        respondents who made comments, 711 (58.3 percent).
            
            
            
               Chart 1. Responses to Questions 1, 2, and 8
            
            "A TREASURE OF RESEARCH"
            As I stated earlier, most readers expressed their approval of the IMH. They described the magazine as
                    "excellent," "a treasure of research," or a "great
                    asset to the state," thanking the editorial staff for its "good work" and
                    urging them to "continue [their] high standards."
            Most readers responded positively, as well, to the IMH's articles, commenting that they
                    "marvel at the time and effort that go into these articles"; that they are
                    "quite pleased with the articles & the variety of subjects chosen"; and
                    that they find the articles "well written" and "always educational and
                    worthwhile." On the other hand, we received a much higher comment rate from those who
                    disapproved of the articles. As a rule, this minority felt the articles are too long. One reader
                    equated brevity and interest: "Some articles are too long and, thus, boring."
                    Other readers found the articles "dull," "dry &
                    technical," or "uneven—sometimes stodgy."
            Critics of the IMH's book reviews—while also in the minority—reflected
                    a range of opinion. "Too many book reviews," wrote one, while another wished 
                    
                  Chart 2. Polarized Responses to Questions 4 and 5
               
                    
                  Chart 3. Responses to Questions 6 and 7
               
                     the editors "would cut down on the reviews and have
                    more feature articles." One respondent found the reviews "so short &
                    superficial as to be of little value," and another called for "more books about
                    Indiana." At the same time, other readers told us that they found the reviews to be the
                    most useful part of the journal. While one complained of our including "too many books I
                    can't read them all," another turned this apparent problem on its head:
                    "The book reviews are valuable when there is not time to read them completely. Knowing what
                    is available helps one choose something of particular interest or refer titles to friends with
                    particular interests."
            Not surprisingly, time proved the most significant factor in determining the attention a reader can
                    devote to the magazine. Fewer than 10 percent of our readers expressed "no
                    opinion" on the statement, "I glance through the IMH, but don't usually
                    read it carefully." While the majority do read the articles carefully, one–third
                    of our respondents acknowledged being glancers. Four readers expressed a desire for more time to
                    read the articles, and another suggested that shorter articles would be easier to read "in
                    today's fast pace[d] world." One reader skims "to see what's up
                    in the IMH, even when I don't read a whole article," and another notes, similarly,
                    that "If I see an article that catches my interest, I read it… otherwise I skim
                    through." Such selective glancing evidently has its payoffs: "Glancing thru the
                    last issue and not interested in "Bonds' Fraud" article [volume 99] when
                    on p. 28 the name of my Great Grandfather, James Cravens, jumped out. I knew he was in Congress from 
                        Washington
                     Co. but didn't realize he was a state agent in NY for a short period. Thank
                    you!" Finding time to read the IMH is also related to the reader's interest in the
                    topic. "Articles appeal to our personal interests." One reader suggested that the
                    editors provide a description of each article to help assist them in deciding which will merit their
                    time.
            Fortunately for the editors, readers provided ample indication of their interests. Questions six,
                    seven, and nine provided spaces for written comments and hundreds came in.4 The
                    three topics most often mentioned by readers were biography, history, and transportation. Some
                    readers are interested in biographies of "people of note,"
                    "celebrities," "prominent families," "favorite
                    sons," and "interesting characters." Others would prefer a more
                    generalized "biographical approach" that provides information about the
                    "backgrounds" of people and their role as individuals and members of groups. 
                  
                     4 Questions six, seven, and nine inquired about readers'
                            interest in recent history, neighboring states, and time periods.
               
                     Many indicated an interest in "common people,"
                    "everyday unsung people," "man on the street stories" about
                    daily life, and the ways in which people met the demands of situations at hand. In general,
                    readers' interests are summed up by the comment of one respondent who wrote, simply,
                    "People— past and present." Although I will save for later a discussion
                    of people's interest in history, I will note here that the interests mentioned within this
                    broad category included historic sites, museums, and preservation. The third major category,
                    transportation, was represented in frequent requests for work on wilderness trails, river and lake
                    travel, canals, railroads (including electric interurbans), and aviation.
            A second, somewhat less requested cluster of topics includes the areas of religion, migration, local
                    history, genealogy, and military history. Readers called for studies of religious institutions,
                    ideologies, and preachers; for information on specific groups such as the Quakers, Amish,
                    Mennonites, and Shakers; and for more on religion's broader influence on politics,
                    literature, and society. They also expressed interest in learning more about the migration patterns
                    that contributed to Hoosier society, and in seeing more material on specific communities, towns, and
                    counties. Genealogy remains a popular topic, as does military history including especially the Civil
                    War, although readers are interested in twentieth–century conflicts as well.
            Finally, some topics attracted the interest of small numbers of readers. These include: pioneers and
                    settlers, education, colleges and universities, business, industry, manufacturing and labor, Native
                    Americans, women, African Americans, agriculture, architecture, literature, the environment, cities,
                    science and medicine, politics, geography, and archaeology. Several readers who "enjoy
                    coverage (exposure to) topics" encouraged editors to continue to present "a good
                    variety" and to "rotate all of them." One reader appreciates the
                    IMH's "editorial creativity and willingness to address a broad range of topics and
                    cultures," and another remarked that the "quality of research & writing is
                    more important than topic."
            IMH readers expressed as wide a range of ideas about how they want their interests packaged as they
                    did about those interests themselves. Some readers "find the unchanged character of the IMH
                    to be comforting," appreciate its "predictability," or "like IMH
                    as it is" and "hope you don't make any drastic changes." Some
                    warned the editors against "trending toward superficial or politically correct
                    topics," while others urged them not to "equate popularizing history or broadening
                    the readership with dumbing it down." "Be bold," one exhorted the
                    editors, while another counseled just as strongly, "Don't tamper with it after
                    nearly a hundred years of a defined purpose and excellent record."
            
            Readers calling for change made a wide variety of suggestions. Some asked for interviews,
                    autobiography, personal or family history; others for transcriptions and annotations of diaries,
                    journals, letters, and documents; others for review essays that place new books in the context of
                    past scholarship; and still others for more themed issues. One recommended an annual article on
                    Indiana historiography, featuring "themes, trends, philosophy, interpretations, leading
                    thinkers, schools of history, and needs and opportunities for research." High school
                    teachers expressed interest in reading reviews of textbooks with Indiana content and in finding
                    suggestions for using the magazine in the classroom. One reader thought "it might be
                    interesting to many of your readers to learn about how an article is researched and
                    written—the process of studying history." There were two requests to involve
                    more Indiana residents in writing articles and reviewing books, and one request to form local
                    interest groups to discuss history. Other suggestions included making the magazine available as a
                    talking book, and in online form.
            Finally, readers advised editors on the physical packaging of the magazine. One counseled editors to
                    "dump the stodgy old red cover and get a new, lively design!" Another reminded,
                    "We do judge our reading materials by their covers." Others called for "a
                    little pizzazz," a "face lift," or a "more dynamic
                    design." To enliven the "almost textbook" layout, several readers called
                    for more pictures, maps, and illustrations to "highlight" and
                    "enhance" text. One respondent was thankful for the inclusion of maps "so
                    I can travel to visit locations." Others called for larger fonts because, as one reader put
                    it, "This is the perfect reading for seniors but who can see it? I am 60 &
                    can't see it. What about my mother who is 95?" Another reader wrote: "I
                    really appreciate your placing the footnotes/reference notes at the bottom of each page rather than
                    at the end of the afticle. Your method allows for faster reading with better
                    comprehension." One reader indicated that external characteristics do not make the
                    magazine: "Don't try to 'fix' it by making it more
                    'reader friendly' i.e. pictures, color, fancy fonts, slick paper. Leave it. Keep
                    the contents interesting and factual and provable. That is the essence of a history
                    magazine."
            "LIKE APPLES AND ORANGES"
            In addition to thinking about the Indiana Magazine of History, the survey also
                    asked readers to compare the magazine to the Indiana Historical Society's companion
                    magazine, Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History. When asked if they enjoy
                    reading one as much as the other, more than half (55.4  percent)
                    answered affirmatively, while just under a third (31.4 percent) indicated a preference, and 10.8
                    percent had no opinion. However, the written comments discourage drawing conclusions from the
                    numeric data for this question, as readers who selected the same numeric response wrote conflicting
                        comments.5
            
            Some readers took the opportunity to express their high opinion of Traces:
                    "I love Traces" wrote one; "Traces is
                    a superb magazine," said another. But just as interestingly, question five served as a
                    prompt for readers to size up their interest in history publications in general, and to comment in
                    particular on the relationship of the IMH and Traces. Dozens of written comments
                    indicate that readers have a sophisticated and integrated approach to their reading of history. One
                    reader indicated that preference depends on the issue, "some months one way some
                    another." Another said that his ideal magazine "would fall between Traces & the IMH but my having to look to both doesn't seem a bad
                    thing." From another, "I enjoy reading both for different reasons—they
                    don't compete and should not be compared." One reader left the question blank and
                    wrote, "the comparison with Traces is like apples and oranges."
            While many readers explicitly preferred one magazine to the other, they agreed that they like having
                    both. One wrote that the complementary magazines well serve readers' "intellectual
                    sophistication and diversity of complex historical experiences." "If you are
                    considering diverting your format to include that of Traces" another
                    warned, "you should consider ceasing. Traces established itself precisely
                    against your format. … [S]erve the audience for which IMH is
                    founded."
            "BECAUSE IT IS ABOUT INDIANA AND ABOUT HISTORY"
            
            Readers' comments reveal a variety of responses to the two words that anchor the
                    magazine's name: Indiana and history. Of those readers who volunteered an opinion on the
                    statement that they "would be interested in reading more about Indiana's
                    neighboring states," 62.8 percent disagreed while 
                  
                     5 'Readers who selected "strongly agree"
                            also wrote in comments indicating different interpretations of the question. One wrote,
                            "love both"; another wrote, "more," next to the
                            reference to Traces; others rewrote the question to read "more
                            than," or "much more," or "better than Traces." A reader who responded negatively to the question chose
                            "no opinion," and then wrote in "enjoy Traces
                            the most."
               
                     37.2 percent agreed. "Do not do this!," one
                    wrote, "Seems like an Indiana History publication should confine itself to
                    Indiana." Other readers mentioned that they "would read a different
                    publication" or "join that state's society if interested,"
                    reminding editors, "It's not their history we're paying to read
                    about." One in five respondents listed no opinion or left the question unanswered.
            Still, a significant minority of respondents expressed an interest in reading about the history of
                    other states—with conditions. Nearly three hundred do want to read about other states in
                    the Midwest, states that border Indiana or are within driving distance. Some felt that any state
                    once part of Indiana or the Old Northwest was acceptable. More than two dozen respondents emphasized
                    that, while the magazine's focus should remain on Indiana, there was value to discussing
                    issues in the context of the larger region. But there were definite limits. "We belong, and
                    read," one reader emphasized, "to get INDIANA history."
            If there was one question on the survey that most divided readers it was question six, which asked
                    readers to agree or disagree with the statement: "I would like to see the IMH publish more research on present–day Indiana." One in four readers
                    registered no opinion or left the question unanswered, while 38.5 percent disagreed and 32.5 percent
                    agreed. Several readers reminded editors that "H" stands for
                    "History" and that the present is not history. One reader asked if it was a
                    "joke question," while another wrote simply, "no, No, NO." These
                    readers felt the editors should "leave recent topics to magazines and newspapers,"
                    that recent events are "interesting but should be in Traces or similar journal,"
                    and "if I wanted to find out about current events I would not be taking the IM of
                    History!"
            Since readers express (and pay money for) their interest in history, it might be appropriate to ask
                    them to define history and "the past." One reader wrote, "This question
                    is perplexing," and dozens of others felt similarly provoked to state their views about
                    what is too recent and what constitutes the past. From their comments emerge some common themes
                    about how we define the past and distinguish it from the present.
            One adjective used by readers to describe the past is that it is "pure" but could
                    be "diluted" by "interpretation" or "articles on other
                    states that don't include Indiana." Other readers described the past as a place of
                    truth, of substance, a place where "facts" reside and have "lasting
                    importance." Good history is, therefore, "factual and provable." This
                    past can be "corrupted" by "partisan politics," by
                    "propaganda," or by the "slanted bias in contemporary media and
                    academia." When the pure past is diluted or the true past is corrupted, it becomes
                    "what we have lost."
            
            For these respondents, the past is clearly distinct from the present. It is a different place, a
                    foreign place, a place that people in the present do not fully understand. Because "I
                    can't step into a time machine and go back," implored one reader, "let
                    someone who was there tell me!" "Let the people talk, they know more than present
                    day researchers," wrote another. One reader insisted that contemporary concerns and ways of
                    thinking are "esoteric" and have no place in a historical journal. From the
                    perspective of such readers, the past is made of "nonsociological stuff," is
                    "less social, economical, and political," and is, well, just "more
                    historical."
            Many of our readers are eager to read stories about real people who "met the demands of the
                    situation at hand" and helped to "provide the needs of the community."
                    These stories can be "brought to life" and "kept alive" by
                    historians who are "fun," or "interesting and engaging." This
                    living past centers on places that can be visited, on objects in museums, and in documents in
                    libraries.
            Readers recommended several ways to distinguish "past" from
                    "recent." Some distinguished the two by date or event, although they disagreed on
                    the appropriate cut–off point. "Remember history is about the past,"
                    wrote one, "not last month or last year." When does the past become history? For
                    one respondent, events that happened before the 
                        Vietnam
                     War are historical. Others specified a quarter of a century, a third, one hundred years
                    ago or more, while a fourth reader set the standard at "prior to 1900." Other
                    readers were not so strict, arguing that history should explore "much [of the] twentieth
                    century," should "not stop at World War II," or should include
                    "the 1960s onward."
            Obviously, distinguishing past from present is a dicey business, and readers puzzled over its
                    complexities. One felt that the years from the 1950s through the 1970s are
                    "recent," but allowed that readers too young to have experienced the time period,
                    and even those a little older, needed help "to refresh memories." Another added
                    that "it takes time and distance to create an historical perspective—time for
                    documentation to become available— time to assess real significance, time to put some
                    distance to contemporary political & cultural pressures & prejudices."
                    Still others saw this shifting perspective as further reason to include recent events:
                    "Some contemporary issues should be included because in the future they could be more
                    reliable than research writers. Time tends to temper or drastically change events. Somewhat like the
                    game of telling stories and how the story changes as it goes around a circle of people."
            Generally speaking, readers felt safest pushing the past farther back in time. Question nine listed a
                    handful of loosely defined time periods—Native 
                    
                  Table 2. Responses to Question Nine "Rank in order of your level of
                            interest"
                  
                     
                     Native American and frontier period
                     Civil War
                     Gilded Age and early 20th century
                     Depression through postwar era
                  
                  
                     1
                     357
                     29.3%
                     223
                     18.3%
                     155
                     12.7%
                     103
                     8.4%
                  
                  
                     2
                     200
                     16.4%
                     326
                     26.7%
                     174
                     14.3%
                     156
                     12.8%
                  
                  
                     3
                     104
                     8.5%
                     145
                     11.9%
                     306
                     25.1%
                     192
                     15.8%
                  
                  
                     4
                     105
                     8.6%
                     101
                     8.3%
                     144
                     11.8%
                     312
                     25.6%
                  
                  
                     5
                     57
                     4.7%
                     39
                     3.2%
                     35
                     2.9%
                     37
                     3.0%
                  
                  
                     6
                     4
                     0.3%
                     4
                     0.3%
                     1
                     0.1%
                     1
                     0.1%
                  
                  
                     Check
                     153
                     12.6%
                     157
                     12.9%
                     107
                     8.8%
                     103
                     8.4%
                  
                  
                     Blank
                     239
                     19.6%
                     224
                     18.4%
                     297
                     24.4%
                     315
                     25.8%
                  
                  
                     
                     1219
                     100%
                     1219
                     100%
                     1219
                     100%
                     219
                     100%
                  
                  
                     
                     Recent/contemporary issues
                     Other
                     No preference
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1
                     37
                     3.0%
                     27
                     2.2%
                     45
                     3.7%
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     2
                     35
                     2.9%
                     5
                     0.4%
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     3
                     68
                     5.6%
                     9
                     0.7%
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     4
                     69
                     5.7%
                     1
                     0.1%
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     5
                     408
                     33.5%
                     8
                     0.7%
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     6
                     13
                     1.1%
                     8
                     0.7%
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Check
                     24
                     2.0%
                     71
                     5.8%
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Blank
                     565
                     46.3%
                     1090
                     89.4%
                     1174
                     96.3%
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     1219
                     100%
                     1219
                     100%
                     1219
                     100%
                     
                     
                  
                American and frontier period, Civil War, the Gilded Age and early twentieth century, the
                    Great Depression and the postwar era, and the recent past—and asked readers to rank them
                    in order of interest. There is a direct correlation between distance from the present and number of
                    votes, as well as a direct correspondence between recentness and number of unselected periods. In
                    other words, the longer ago the time period, the more likely it was to get a vote (Table 2).
            The comments of a number of readers taken together suggest three strategies for connecting the
                    distant past with recent years and with the  present. The first
                    is to view the present as "history in the making" and to learn about
                    "todays history makers." Another approach is to draw comparisons between the past
                    and present in order to show progress or growth. Such comparisons might be educational if drawn
                    "between historical events and current events—like the anti–German
                    attitudes of the world wars compared to the current anti–Middle East attitudes."
                    A third strategy would, more generally, highlight "the impact and contemporary
                    relevance" of the past by examining contemporary issues "from a historical
                    standpoint" and "trading] how Indiana evolved into the twenty–first
                    century"; such an approach might answer such questions as how the "past affect [s]
                    current state policy," or why Hoosiers are "so conservative."
            Finally, readers expressed a natural interest in relating their own lives, and the lives of their
                    families, to the past. When asked if they would like to learn more about local history activities,
                    nearly three–quarters of the respondents said yes, while 14 percent had no opinion.
                    Dozens of written comments listed the names of the respondents ancestors and asked that something be
                    written about them. One respondent wrote, "History begins with [my ancestor]!"
                    Others shared tidbits about their families and offered their family papers for historical research.
                    A few requested articles guiding readers to "resources available to do genealogical and
                    historical research," or "that deal with the historic events that impact the study
                    of genealogy."
            From this perspective it comes as no surprise that a reader in Gary wants more articles on cities,
                    that a reader in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     would like to see a greater emphasis on the history of northern Indiana, that an 
                        Indianapolis
                     resident requests more on 
                        Marion County
                    , or that Hoosiers collectively ask for more about "my home state."
                    Perhaps these connections can be explored in sophisticated and scholarly ways that avoid what one
                    reader described as "a tendency during the last few years of reverting to the type of
                    'this is what my granddaddy or other illustrious ancestor did in the old days'
                    article." One respondent summed up the attitude of countless others by writing,
                    "Please remember that we request Indiana Magazine oj History because it
                    is about Indiana and about History."
            What is it, then, that unites the vastly different points of view that 1MH readers
                    bring to the magazine? Perhaps it is a shared sense that the IMH is "scholarly,"
                    "academic," "detailed," and "documented," that
                    it is "educational and worthwhile," that it helps them "to understand
                    what shaped our getting to where we are," and that "it brings research to the
                    general public." The IMH, most seem to agree, "serves an important role in
                    publishing well–researched scholarly papers," and "is an excellent
                    source of information," "a stimulus" for those who are interested in
                    learning about, connecting with,  and sharing Indiana's
                    past. Some readers "keep every copy forever" while others, perhaps drawing on this
                    sense of the journal's public value, donate their copies to libraries or schools for wider
                    circulation. Respondents recommended that the magazine be placed "in every city or county
                    library" in the state, and that it be read and appreciated by "younger busy
                    people" who might otherwise lose touch with their past. Perhaps the ultimate expression of
                    Hoosier pride came from the reader whose comment serves, as well as any, to summarize the results of
                    our inquiry: "not perfect, but better than other states'." It is, wrote
                    another reader, an "important record of Indiana's past."
         
         
         
            REVIEWS
            
               Jefferson Davis in Blue The Life of Sherman's Relentless Warrior By
                    Nathaniel Cheairs Hughes, Jr., and Gordon D. Whitney (
                  Baton
                        Rouge: Louisiana
                State
                    University Press, 2002. Pp. xviii, 475. Notes, maps, illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $49.95.)
            On his deathbed in 1879, Brigadier General Jefferson C. Davis journeyed back in memory to his service
                    under fire at Fort Sumter in April 1861. Although an undeniably dramatic episode, it was only one
                    among many in an unusually eventful life. As a teenage volunteer from Indiana in the Mexican War,
                    Davis distinguished himself on the field at Buena Vista (although another Jefferson Davis was
                    propelled further by his actions there). After Sumter, he saw action on such far–flung
                    battlefields as Pea Ridge and Chicka–mauga, 
                        Atlanta
                     and Bentonville, in most cases commanding a division. The immediate postwar period
                    found him ensconced in the Alaskan town of Sitka's vast Baranoff Castle, as military
                    governor of the newly purchased territory. Later, Davis zealously prosecuted the Modoc War of
                    1872–1873 near the 
                        California
                    –
                        Oregon
                     border, and saw his opponent, the Modoc chieftain Kintpuash (known to whites as Captain
                    Jack), shackled and sent to the gallows. Two events, however, overshadowed all the others:
                    Davis's killing of a fellow Union general in 1862, and his abandonment to a dubious fate of
                    a large number of contraband slaves during 1864's March to the Sea. Although, due to a
                    series of flukes, he was not court–martialled for the former incident, it doomed any hope
                    of advancement, which he would have otherwise abundantly merited. The latter incident, in
                    "providing convincing evidence of his prejudice against an innocent people and his deeply
                    ingrained  inhumanity" (p. 314), made it certain that
                    Congress would never approve a future promotion.
            These actions apparently sullied Davis's reputation to the extent that no
                    full–scale biography of this obviously significant figure has appeared until now.
                    Happily, Davis's biographers— esteemed historian Nathaniel Cheairs Hughes, Jr.,
                    and Davis expert Gordon D. Whitney—have proven themselves perfectly suited for the task.
                    They have produced a definitive study, one that is exhaustively researched, carefully interpreted,
                    and engagingly written.
            In the preface the authors telegraph their intent to avoid whitewashing their subject. Readers
                    expecting an indulgent explanation for the killing of Major General William Nelson, for example, are
                    warned that Davis was guilty as charged. Although Hughes and Whitney show appreciation for
                    Davis's commendable qualities, from the honesty of his post–action reports to
                    his talents as a "no–nonsense military administrator" (p. 361), they
                    emphasize the gravity of his choices and actions in the Nelson shooting. Note for instance their
                    terse summary of Davis's involvement in the execution of Captain Jack for killing Brigadier
                    General Edward R. S. Canby: "A murderer executed by another murderer" (p. 413).
            Nevertheless, Davis is not an unsympathetic or unattractive figure, and is certainly a colorful one
                    (his language no less blue than his uniform). Despite his distinguished record in the Mexican War,
                    he was denied the West Point appointment that even President James Knox Polk thought he deserved. He
                    was nevertheless commissioned in the regular Army, and rose to become one of Indiana's
                    notorious, rather than famous, Civil War generals. Although small, frail, and sickly, he performed
                    spectacularly on many fields of battle. Major General William T. Sherman recognized his worth:
                    "Here was a man who could handle a block of infantry with the effectiveness of cavalry,
                    with no excuses or cries for reinforcement. He could make an independent decision without detailed
                    instructions and without having been provided a full ration of intelligence, the mark of a strong,
                    decisive commander" (p. 248). Of Davis's many military successes, the authors
                    focus on two from the 
                        Atlanta
                     campaign: his capture of 
                  Rome, Georgia
               , probably the apex of his wartime service, and his
                    "imaginative and energetic use of artillery" at the crucial Battle of 
                        Jonesboro
                    , followed by a "bold thrust in heavy double lines" (p. 287).
            Undeniably definitive, Jefferson Davis in Blue only barely misses being fully
                    exemplary as well. Its major fault lies in its index—there is no entry for the
                    book's subject. What goes before, however, is extraordinarily good. The narrative, superbly
                    documented and mercifully free of hackneyed phrases and stale allusions, flows briskly and clearly.
                    Balanced and judicious, the book gives a fair hearing, and justice, to one of the Civil
                    War's most controversial figures.
            WILLIAM HARRIS BRAGG teaches history at 
                        Georgia
                     College & State University,  Milledgeville, 
                        Georgia
                    . He has pub– of Joe Brown's Pets: The Geora
                    Militia. lished widely on Civil War topics and 1861–1865, forthcoming
                    in 2004 from is the author, with William R. Scaife, Mercer University Press.
         
         
            
               For Gold and Glory Charlie Wiggins and the African–American Racing Car
                        Circuit By Todd Gould (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2002. Pp. xx, 212. Illustrations, appendix, notes, index.
                    $27.95.)
            In For Gold and Glory, Todd Gould tells the story of race–car driver
                    Charlie Wiggins and the African–American racing car circuit that he invigorated between
                    1924 and 1936. Although the auto–racing establishment barred African Americans from its
                    events, including the 
                        Indianapolis
                     500, Wiggins's skills as a mechanic and driver were critical in forging the
                    Gold and Glory Sweepstakes—the premiere event of the African–American racing
                    circuit, held in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Wiggins's perseverance and talents reflected the broader values that African
                    Americans used to fight against discrimination and the Ku Klux Klan that was coming to dominate
                    statewide politics even as Wiggins and his fellow black drivers built a successful racing circuit.
                    As black racers crisscrossed the Midwest, they demonstrated that neither the revitalized KKK nor
                    most racing organizations (such as the American Automobile Association) could prevent African
                    Americans from creating a vibrant and influential racing culture.
            Gould pulls together a variety of sources and tells his story primarily by quoting at great length
                    (frequently for entire paragraphs) interviews with professional and amateur historians, the
                    recollections of Wiggins's proteges, or the accounts of newspaper reporters. Although this
                    mode of storytelling works exceptionally well in the world of filmmaking, an area where Gould has
                    won many awards, it does not work quite as well as the primary storytelling device in a written
                    biography.
            As Gould asserts the influence of Wiggins's driving and mechanical skills on the racing
                    world, he touches upon important questions about the role of African Americans in the history of
                    sport and automobile culture. Gould suggests that Wiggins's tremendous impact on racing was
                    due to the multiracial fraternity he created in his garage—"Charlie's
                    Gang," as they were known—which included black and white drivers, mechanics, and
                    automobile aficionados. Indeed, during the 1930s Wiggins mentored five of the top ten Indy 500
                    drivers. Although Wiggins's impact seems to have been considerable, the outlines and
                    broader significance of his accomplishments remain fuzzy. A number of questions are never fully
                    answered: What were  Wiggins's innovations and precisely
                    how did they change racing culture? Who emulated them and why were they improvements? Also, how was
                    it possible to create such an interracial culture of male camaraderie at a time of deep racial
                    divisions? Was it simply the result of a shared passion for racing?
            Gould argues that a brotherhood of racing transcended racial boundaries, noting especially
                    Wiggins's work with Indy 500 winner "Wild Bill" Cummings. Cummings had
                    been part of "Charlie's Gang" and learned much about racing from the
                    black driver. In fact, Wiggins served on Cummings's pit crew the year he won the 500. Yet,
                    because AAA officials would not allow the use of a black mechanic or pit crew, Cummings hired
                    Charlie Wiggins as a janitor. Only after sweeping the floors, and after officials had left the track
                    was Charlie allowed to help craft the winning car. Amazingly, though perhaps not surprisingly,
                    Cummings never publicly acknowledged or thanked Wiggins for his work. Even so, Gould argues that
                    this story showed that "behind those garage doors, there was no color line, no race, and no
                    barriers to overcome."
            I would have interpreted this story differently. Cummings and white drivers clearly benefited from
                    the exceptional skills of black drivers, but that they did so without allowing them into their
                    fraternity speaks volumes. Cummings did not "shatter social norms." Rather, on his
                    way to victory, Cummings exploited a phenomenally talented black American, and then did not
                    recognize his labor or talent. This is the story of African Americans writ large. Like other black
                    Americans, Wiggins battled long odds to shape his sport and attempted to carve out a
                    multi–racial and more equitable world, only to be forgotten because of the entrenched
                    racism of society and racing culture. Fortunately, Todd Gould has brought the story of Charlie
                    Wiggins and the African–American racing circuit to light.
            MARK TEBEAU is an assistant professor of history at 
                        Cleveland
                     State University. He is an urban historian who writes about work, manhood, and
                    risk–taking. In Eating Smoke: Fire in Urban America (Johns Hopkins,
                    2003), Tebeau explores the work and culture of American firemen.
         
         
            
               American Grit A Woman's Letters from the 
                            Ohio
                         Frontier Edited by Emily Foster (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 2002. Pp. x, 344. Illustrations, notes, appendices, bibliography, index.
                    $45.00.)
            Few published collections of letters capture the heart of an antebellum pioneer family, the essence
                    of their daily struggles, and the building up of the Midwest more perceptively than American Grit: A Woman's Letters from the 
                            Ohio
                        
               
                    
                    Frontier, edited by Emily Foster. The volume, a title in the University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    's Ohio River Valley series, showcases the richly detailed
                    letters that Anna Briggs Bentley wrote from 
                        Ohio
                     to her much beloved kin in 
                        Maryland
                     between 1826 and 1858. The letters offer insight on 
                        Ohio
                     Quakerism, frontier home medicinal practices, and the roles of women's,
                    family, and community labor in antebellum agricultural societies. They are also notable for their
                    rare references to farming during the Midwest's canal–building era.
            In 1826 Joseph and Anna Bentley, their six children, and a black servant named Henry left 
                        Maryland
                     to join fellow 
                        Quaker
                     pioneer farmers in 
                        Columbiana County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , where they entered a world of unrelenting, "slavish" labor.
                    Anna's letters routinely describe the litany of chores that comprise "a most
                    laborious" day or week, along with their physical efforts upon her, sometimes expressing
                    solace only in the realization that part of her next day's labor can be done while seated.
                    For example, after noting that she had washed, baked, scoured, and cooked,
                    "&c," Bentley remarks that "I have been constantly on my feet;
                    and I feel very tired now and look forward to tomorrow as a treat, for I have a great pile of
                    patching to do that I can set down to" (p. 40). Especially revealing are her
                    characterizations of family and neighbor labor, which formed the most salient feature of pioneer
                    interconnected–ness (followed by caring for the sick, grieving with the mourning, and
                    attending to the young). While the division of labor tended to be along gender lines,
                    Bentley's letters also document that these lines frequently blurred according to the needs
                    of the moment. Pioneers prized labor for its contribution to the whole while disparaging the
                    "good for nothing"; this is evident whether Anna writes with pride about
                    eight–year–old Maria's capabilities or about her own limitations
                    during her thirteen pregnancies.
            The regional landscape of independent farms that Anna's family helped to create was quite
                    dependent upon a western culture of neighborly assistance and obligation. Apparently Bentley was
                    unaccustomed to this form of community labor. Commenting on the scarcity of money that prompted
                    payment in kind, she writes that it is the "custom here in harvest or other busy times to
                    collect as many neighbors as they can, and they will pay back in work" (p. 38). Neighboring
                    women collaborated to provide food for the hands. She notes numerous other labor arrangements such
                    as engaging one man to plow and sow their flax field in return for granting him his own small
                    section, or the employment of a neighbor's teenage daughter for domestic chores in exchange
                    for educational or social instruction. All was not harmonious, however; Anna writes with disgust
                    about those who failed to assist, the family's stolen beehive, and the frequency of
                    lawsuits to obtain a payment of debt.
            So much more can be gleaned from these remarkable letters. Given Bent–ley's own
                    excommunication over a doctrinal  dispute, they are less about
                    Quakerism than they are about western pioneering—a point Foster, as editor, fails to
                    develop. Conspicuously missing from her bibliography is R. Douglas Hurt's illuminating work
                        The 
                            Ohio
                         Frontier, which would have provided a broader context for the story of
                    agricultural development during westward expansion. Also absent is the fundamental connection to the
                    increasingly rich historiography of rural women. Still, American Grit is a
                    must–read for nineteenth–century scholars and those generally interested in
                    the history of the Midwest.
            GINETTE ALEY is completing a Ph.D. dissertation at 
                        Iowa
                     State University on the early American Midwest, and is an instructor at 
                        Virginia
                     Polytechnic Institute and State University, 
                  Blacksburg, Virginia
               . She
                    is the author of a forthcoming chapter, "Bringing About the Dawn: Agriculture, Internal
                    Improvement, Indian Policy, and Euro–American Hegemony in the Old Northwest,
                    1800–1846," in Daniel P 
                        Barr
                    , ed., The Boundaries Between Us: Natives, Newcomers, and the Struggle for
                        the Old Northwest, 1740–1840 (
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 2004).
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         is My Dwelling Place Schoolgirl Embroideries, 1800–1850 By Sue
                    Studebaker (
                  Athens: Ohio
                University Press, 2002. Pp. xxvi, 310. Maps, illustrations,
                    [appendices], notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound, $70.00; paperbound,
                    $34.95.)
            For much of the nation's past, needlework has been an integral part of women's
                    lives. Women used needlework as a way to tell stories, to highlight what was important to them, and
                    to reveal their aesthetic sensibilities and technical prowess. Samplers, a particularly popular form
                    of needlework during the early nineteenth century, are the focus of 
                  
                            Ohio
                         is My Dwelling Place. Like all documents, samplers can be looked at in many
                    different ways. On a visual level they can be appreciated for their use of color, design, skill, and
                    composition. As heirlooms, they are treasures valued for family ties, for a link to the past, and
                    for their relative scarcity. As social documents, samplers provide information on opportunities
                    available to young women and on the wider cultural environment at a particular point in time. Sue
                    Studebaker, a needlework connoisseur and researcher, provides a peek into the needlework creations
                    of 
                        Ohio
                    's young pioneer women.
            This study of samplers in early nineteenth–century 
                        Ohio
                     is the result of what has become familiar in the quilt world, a statewide documentation
                    project. Studebaker and a number of other enthusiasts uncovered samplers, researched young
                    needleworkers and  their educational backgrounds, and then placed
                    the needlework and the young stitchers within the settlement patterns of 
                        Ohio
                    . The project has documented more than three hundred samplers. Because of this effort,
                    we know more about the nature of needlework in 
                        Ohio
                     and the importance of the needle arts in the education of young women. Such a statewide
                    quilt documentation project, once underway, triggers interest in the traditions of other states;
                    each project therefore helps shape the structure of nascent efforts in other places.
            The study begins with a general discussion of the territorial and early statehood history of 
                        Ohio
                    , paying particular attention to migration patterns. Next, Studebaker builds on the work
                    of other needlework scholars and discusses the importance of needlework in the education of young
                    women, as well as touching briefly on the role that the samplers they produced played in their
                    lives. She concludes this brief introductory section with a consideration of what makes a sampler an "
                        Ohio
                    " sampler.
            Studebaker divides 
                        Ohio
                     into three sampler regions—southern, central, and northern 
                        Ohio
                    —and within each section explores sampler production county by county. After
                    a brief introduction to the county, selected young women and their samplers are discussed. Attention
                    is paid to their families, their education, and their needlework. Crisp color and
                    black–and–white photographs provide an opportunity to examine the samplers.
                    The text offers an explanation of the motifs and influences of each selection and details the family
                    and educational environment of the needleworkers. The volume concludes with a listing of all
                    documented samplers and a chart of those schools and teachers identified over the course of the
                    project.
            While this study is one of the first to bring the systematic examination of samplers from its
                    previous focus on the east coast to the Midwest, and while it communicates enthusiasm for the
                    possibilities of statewide sampler documentation, it falls short of the more sophisticated
                    quilt–documentation projects. The best of the publications resulting from these projects
                    clearly indicate the multiple goals involved in the documentation effort. These include an interest
                    in encouraging greater appreciation of quilts as folk art, the collection of information on quilters
                    and quilts, the establishment of a repository for material gathered during the life of the project,
                    and the promotion of quilt conservation and preservation. If such goals existed for this sampler
                    project, no mention is made of their existence. Without an identified repository for the information
                    generated during the project, the book serves as the only and hence, limited record of what the
                    research efforts uncovered. Finally, this volume fails to place its educational information within
                    the context of larger discussions of frontier and antebellum education history. This contextual
                    vacuum significantly weakens the study's overall authority.
            
            PATRICIA MOONEY–MELVIN is an
                    associate professor of history at Loyola University, 
                        Chicago
                    . In addition to her interests in urban history and the built environment, she curated
                    an exhibit on 
                        Ohio
                     quilts and quilters, and prepared a technical leaflet, Tracing the
                        Quiltmaker, for the American Quilt Study Group.
         
         
            
               
                  Lake Michigan Passenger Steamers By George W. Hilton (
                        Stanford
                    , Cal.: 
                        Stanford
                     University Press, 2002. Pp. xii, 364. Maps, notes, illustrations, tables, appendices,
                    index. $75.00.)
            With this book George W Hilton has created another detailed analysis of a portion of the history and
                    technology of the Great Lakes transportation industry. One of his earliest books, The Great Lakes Car Ferries (1962), took a detailed look at every aspect of that service, and
                    is today recognized as the definitive work on the subject. In the same vein, he wrote The Night Boat (1968), about overnight passenger steamer service. 
                  Lake Michigan Passenger Steamers provides a close look at the
                    boats that for a century provided passenger and package–freight service across the lake.
                    Hilton notes in the present work that the first letter he received after the car–ferry
                    book appeared was from Edward N. Middleton. This is perhaps fitting, since over the two decades that
                    Middleton worked in maritime history it was his dream to see published a book on Lake
                        Michigan passenger steamers.
            This book provides far more detail than the title might indicate. The first part treats the industry
                    as a whole, looking at the geography, the boats themselves, the demands for service, and changing
                    transportation technology The second part looks at the individual companies that provided passenger
                    service on Lake Michigan. (It should be noted that this book is dedicated to
                    firms that provided service primarily on Lake Michigan; lines that provided
                    service throughout the Great Lakes are mentioned only peripherally.) The book is profusely
                    illustrated with pictures and drawings covering the entire era of passenger service.
            Captain Albert E. Goodrich established the largest and longest–lived of the Lake
                        Michigan passenger lines, the Goodrich Transit Company, which operated from 1856
                    until it failed during the Great Depression. He chartered his –first boat, the Huron, for service between 
                        Chicago
                     and Milwaukee. As his firm expanded it provided service to virtually every port on the
                    lake. By the turn of the century, the firm provided scheduled service to nine major ports, with a
                    like number of vessels including the only "whaleback" passenger steamer Christopher 
                            Columbus
                        . Throughout its history, the firm proudly claimed to have never employed a
                    captain who had lost a boat. (Any who did no longer worked for the company.)
            
            The discussion of the Indiana Transportation Company provides a detailed look at the port of 
                        Michigan
                     City and its transportation needs throughout its first century. Since the town was
                    located so close to 
                        Chicago
                     and to the intersection of several railroads, there was minimal demand for waterborne
                    freight or passenger transportation. Yet local entrepreneurs successfully developed an extensive
                    excursion business at 
                        Washington
                     Park on Lake Michigan, a recreational facility similar to todays
                    Cedar Point. Hotels, restaurants, and other businesses were built nearby to provide the necessary
                    services to excursionists making extended visits. As the twentieth century dawned, business expanded
                    annually with finer vessels and faster service, until a quarter of a million excursionists were
                    arriving yearly from 
                        Chicago
                     in a season lasting only ten weeks.
            A detailed chapter discusses the decline of the passenger and package freight business on
                        Lake Michigan by 1950. The first blow came on July 24, 1915, when the
                    excursion steamer Eastland (the subject of another Hilton book) rolled over on its side in the 
                        Chicago
                     River, killing more than eight hundred people in the worst disaster ever to strike
                    Great Lakes shipping. Other factors included the coming of the automobile, efficient highway
                    transportation, new government regulations, and the Great Depression, all combining to bring on the
                    demise. The Theodore Roosevelt was withdrawn in 1951 after failing boiler and
                    engine inspections, and the Milwaukee Clipper was withdrawn in 1970, unable to
                    justify the cost of new sanitary equipment. Today only auto ferries remain for those who would enjoy
                    a refreshing cruise on Lake Michigan.
            STEVE HAROLD has been writing books and articles on
                        Lake Michigan's maritime history for more than twenty five years.
                    He is president of the Association of Great Lakes Maritime History, an organization of maritime
                    history professionals.
         
         
            
               Thomas D. Clark of 
                            Kentucky
                         An Uncommon Life in the Commonwealth Edited by John E. Kleber (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 2003. Pp. xiii, 256. Illustrations, notes, bibliographic essay, index.
                    $25.00.)
            "Nobody grows old by merely living a number of years. People grow old only by deserting
                    their ideals." Perhaps the words of General Douglas MacArthur help to explain why historian
                    and centenarian Thomas D. Clark has withstood the years so well. The former long–time
                    chair of the history department at the University of 
                        Kentucky
                     has not deserted his great ideal: the notion that the knowledge of history remains as
                    practicable and useful  today as a full grasp of the Internet.
                    Clark remains physically active, speaking to audiences and writing. His mind and his eloquence seem
                    to be sharpened by the passage of time. The essence of his incredibly varied and productive life has
                    been captured wonderfully in Thomas D. Clark of 
                            Kentucky
                        .
            
            Born in 
                  Louisville, Mississippi
               , on July 13, 1903, the oldest of seven siblings, Clark is
                    the son of a cotton farmer but was greatly influenced by his schoolteacher mom. His hard life in the
                    cotton fields under the searing 
                        Mississippi
                     sun, as well as his early experiences logging and working as a deckhand on a dredging
                    boat, gave him first–hand knowledge of the rigors of rural labor.
            After earning degrees at the University of 
                        Mississippi
                     and the University of 
                        Kentucky
                    , Clark culminated his formal learning with a doctorate from Duke University. In 1931 he
                    arrived in 
                        Lexington
                     to begin his illustrious career with the University of 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            Hoosier readers should feel a special affinity for Clark. While his life study has been on southern
                    history, primarily 
                        Kentucky
                    , he spent four years teaching at Indiana University after retiring from the 
                        Lexington
                     school in 1968. He was wooed to the appointment as Distinguished Service Professor
                    Emeritus at 
                        Bloomington
                     by IUs president, Elvis Stahr, a former student of his and a native Kentuckian. While
                    at Indiana, Clark made a lasting contribution to the state by writing a comprehensive
                    four–volume history of Indiana University in which he traced the university's
                    rise from a small school to a national institution. One reviewer predicted that this work would be
                    regarded as a superior history of an American institution of higher learning.
            One comes away from Kleber's book dizzy from the long litany of posts and positions Clark
                    has held, and his seemingly limitless list of publications. He has written more on 
                        Kentucky
                    , including a classic history textbook, than any other person.
            Compilations of essays by multiple authors have a way of running people off; prospective readers may
                    rightly suspect that such works lack the connecting sinew needed to sustain a longer read. Such was
                    my apprehension when I picked up Kleber's book, but it turned out to be a delightful
                    surprise. Kleber's superb editing makes the book flow with the constant stream of a novel.
                    While there is some repetition and overlap, it is minimal and serves only to drive home
                    Clark's accomplishments.
            In arranging the book into five separate categories—"The Life,"
                    "The Historian," "The Advocate," "The Friend,"
                    and "The Works"—Kleber shows that Clark is not only a man of intellect
                    but also a man of action. Among his accomplishments are the development of various projects such as
                    the 
                        Kentucky
                     Department of Library and Archives Building, and the newly opened 
                        Kentucky
                     History Center and Museum in downtown 
                        Frankfort
                    . The very publisher of the book—University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    —is a brainchild of Clark's.
            You need not be a serious student of history, or an admirer of Clark, to find matters of interest in
                    this book. Clark's life itself is interesting. Erudite as he is, he is not a slave to
                    academia.  His love of history is interwoven with his love of
                    life. Through the reports of eighteen excellent writers from varied backgrounds, this book puts in
                    perspective Clark's life and contributions much better than would a conventional biography.
            BILL CUNNINGHAM is a circuit judge in
                            
                  Kuttawa, Kentucky
               . He has written numerous regional books, including On Bended Knees: The Night Rider Story, now in its tenth printing. He also
                    authored a biography of Clark in 1981, entitled 
                  
                            Kentucky
                        's Clark.
            
         
         
         
            REVIEW NOTICES
            NEW OR RECENT FROM INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY PRESS
            
            
                    Casper and Catherine Move to America: An Immigrant Family's Adventures,
                        1849–1850
                
            By Brian Hasler Illustrations by Angela M. Gouge Introduction by Barbara Truesdell Afterword by M.
                    Teresa Baer
            (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2003. Pp. xii, 32. Maps, illustrations.
                    $17.95.)
            Within the covers of this nicely illustrated book lies a typical story of
                    nineteenth–century pioneer "courage, faith, and determination"
                    (p.vii)—with a twenty–first century twist. Brian Hasler, who lives in the 
                        Evansville
                     area, imagines a day in the future when his now toddler son comes home from school
                    baffled by the arrival of a Costa Rican immigrant. The son's questions spark the
                    father's recital of an adventure involving "sailing ships, stagecoaches,
                    riverboats, and covered wagons," with a moral for a modern "nation of
                    immigrants." Truesdell's introduction outlines the place of such family
                    "legends" and Baer's afterword shows how modern–day
                    genealogist–"detectives" track a family in census and vital records. If
                    you are a descendant of Casper and Catherine, this is a must–own. If not, it will
                    interest your children and may even inspire you to write your own family history.
            
                    Indiana in Stereo:
                
            
               Three–Dimensional Views of the Heartland Edited by George R. Hanlin and
                    Paula J. Corpuz
            Essays by Anne E. Peterson, Joan E. Hostetler, and Darryl Jones Photographs by Darryl Jones
            (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2003. Pp. xi, 289. Illustrations, notes, table,
                    glossary, bibliography. $34.95.)
            This well–designed and handsomely produced small book will appeal to anyone interested in
                    period photographs of the Hoosier state and to those interested in historic photographic techniques.
                    Beginning with two informative essays on stereographs in general and stereography in Indiana, the
                    volume continues with several topical  chapters of vintage
                    stereographs. Stereo photographs of landscapes, buildings, street scenes, workplaces, forms of
                    transportation, family groups, and other subjects can be enjoyed with a small stereo viewer included
                    with the book. A concluding essay, written by well–known photographer Darryl Jones, is
                    followed by a collection of his new color stereographs. The book also includes a table identifying
                    Indiana stereographers.
            
                    The Photography of Ben Winans ofBrookville, Indiana, 1902–1926
                
            By Donald L. Dunaway (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2001. Pp. xi, 172. Illustrations. Paperbound,
                    $24.95.)
            During the first years of the twentieth century Ben Winans, a printer from the small town
                    ofBrookville, Indiana, took up the hobby (later the business) of photography This volume reproduces
                    several dozen of Winans's best photographs and, in so doing, offers a glimpse of midwestem
                    small–town life during the first two decades of the 1900s. In addition to the usual
                    formal portraits and pictures of buildings, churches, schools, and streets, Winan photographed
                    scenes from the lives of the townspeople. He captured the local marching band in the town's
                    1902 Decoration Day parade; men lined up to vote at the Hose Company No. 5 firehouse; a traveling
                    salesman for "J. R. Watkins Medical Co."; a family reunion in the park on a summer
                    day; and a 1907 sharpshooter performing in the "Buckskin Ben" Wild West show.
                    Winans also captured the harsher realities of life, especially in a series of photos taken during
                    the devastation of a 1913 flood.
            
               Centennial Farms of Indiana Edited by M. Teresa Baer, Kathleen M. Breen, and Judith
                    Q. McMullen Genealogical indexes by Ruth Dorrell
            (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2003. Pp. viii, 125. Illustrations, notes, indexes.
                    Paperbound, $24.95.)
            In 1947 the Indiana Historical Society began a project to identify all farms in Indiana owned by the
                    same family for one hundred years. The centennial farm project proved so popular with the public
                    that it continued until 1951, by which time more than 1,650 farms had been identified. Tapping into
                    this potentially rich source for rural history and state genealogy, the society has republished the
                    original list of farms, arranged by last name of the original family and also including information
                    on the county in which the farm lies, the date of the farms beginning, and the name of the
                    descendant who submitted the farm for consideration. Along with this extensive list, which takes up
                    more than one–half of the book's length, the IHS press has included a brief
                    introductory essay on the original gathering project and an excellent longer essay by M. Teresa Baer
                    covering the history of agriculture in Indiana. For the use of modern researchers,  two more indexes, to the last names of farm family descendants and to
                    counties, are included at the end of the book. This liberally illustrated, well–produced
                    volume will appeal particularly to historians of rural Indiana and to genealogists.
            
               OTHER NEW OR RECENT BOOKS
            
            
                    Indiana: A History
                
            By Howard H. Peckham
            (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2003. Pp. 207. Maps, suggestions for further reading, index. Paperbound,
                    $15.95.)
            This book is a paperback reprint of the original which was published in 1978 as part of The States and the Nation bicentennial series. Although not a thorough history of the
                    state, the book does provide a story about the origins of Hoosier character—a character
                    grounded thoroughly in the pioneer era of Indiana's history. Peckham also addresses
                    religion, education, politics, the economy, cities, literature, and sports.
            
               Indiana Pioneer Stories: A Collection of Historical Articles Printed in the Year Books
                        of the Society of Indiana Pioneers Volume 1: 1918–1959, Volume 2:
                    1960–2000 By Doris Leistner
            (Published by the author, 2002. Pp. x, 483; x, 496. Map, illustrations, index. $45.00 ea.
                    Available at www.indianapioneers.com.)
            A member of the board of governors of the Society of Indiana Pioneers, Doris Leistner has selected
                    numerous historical articles from the society's newsletters and presented them in
                    chronological order, although some do not include the date of original publication or author. The
                    articles taken together tell at least three stories: one about the experiences of Indiana's
                    nineteenth–century pioneers that were passed on to posterity, another about the way
                    twentieth–. century Hoosiers have celebrated their pioneer ancestors, and another about
                    the meetings and "pilgrimages" taken by twentieth–century society
                    members.
            
               Now that Time has had Its Say: A History of the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Central Canal, 1835–2002 By J. Darrell Bakken
            (
                        Bloomington
                    : J. Darrell Bakken and the Consolidated City of 
                        Indianapolis
                     Department of Waterworks, 2003, Pp. xvi, 137. Maps, illustrations, appendixes, notes.
                    Paperbound, $15.50; electronic, $3.95. Available at www. lstbooks.com.)
            This thoroughly researched work gives a detailed account of the Indiana Central Canal project and how
                    its initial failure was ultimately transformed into a success. Bakken begins by examining the
                    history of the canal during most of the nineteenth century: its builders, its many sellers and
                    buyers, its uses as transportation, recreation, and water power, and finally its purchase by the 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     Water Company. The second part of the book details how the failed canal became an
                    integral part of the IWC's water–supply system and how, at the end of the
                    twentieth century it was transformed again into an important element in the
                    revitalizat–ion of downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Using many historical photographs and a collection of primary documents, the author
                    sheds light on the role of this little–studied Hoosier canal in the history of the city
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            
               Haunted Hoosier Trails: A Guide to Indiana's Famous Folklore Spooky Sites
                    By Wanda Lou Willis
            (Zionsville, Indiana: Guild Press Emmis Publishing, LP, 2002. Pp. xii, 179. Illustrations, maps.
                    Paperbound, $15.95.)
            This collection of ghost stories provides the reader with a sample of Hoosier folklore spanning the
                    geography and history of Indiana. Replete with maps and brief histories of the featured counties,
                    Willis's work establishes these spooky tales within the context of normal Hoosier life.
            
                    
                  
                            Roanoke
                        :
                
            
               The Renaissance of a Hoosier Village By Pete Eshelman and Scott M. Bushnell
                    Photography Research by Pamela T. Gray
            (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Guild Press Emmis Books, 2003. Pp. xii, 112. Maps, illustrations, chronologies,
                    bibliography.)
            Pete Eshelman believes that "there is no limit to the good a man can do if he
                    doesn't care who gets the credit" (p. xiii). The first half of the book covers the
                    three–hundred–plus years of 
                        Roanoke
                    's history: a story of Indians, transportation, prosperity, and a decline
                    lasting from the Great Depression to the 1980s. The second half of the book describes the twelve
                    years of 
                        Roanoke
                    's "Renaissance" since Eshelman moved his insurance business
                    to town and began to restore the town's aging properties.
         
         
         
            LETTERS
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To the Editor,
                        Regarding the article entitled "The Color Line in Midwestern College Sports,
                                    1890–1960," published in the June 2002 issue of the Indiana Magazine of History, I read this article with great interest.
                        My father, Herbert William Laffoon, Sr., was born and raised in the city of 
                                        Terre Haute
                                    , Indiana, at a time when Indiana was controlled to a great extent by
                                    the KKK. After much negotiation with the coach at what was then Wiley High School
                                    (1924), he became, in his junior year, the first African American to play football
                                    in the city of 
                                        Terre Haute
                                     (
                                        Vigo County
                                    ), Indiana. That year he became the second African American to be named
                                    as "All State." He was the first fullback to be named as
                                    "All State." I mention my father because he experienced the same
                                    racial discrimination associated with his activities (sports) that the author
                                    mentioned were experienced by African Americans at the college level. An article
                                    from the 
                                        Terre Haute
                                    
                                    Tribune Star from October 23, 1924, gives but one example of
                                    discrimination encountered by my father when his Wiley High School was to play
                                    Henderson High School of 
                              Henderson,
                                            Kentucky
                           . The first
                                    paragraph of the article reads: 
                                        One of Wiley's best football players will be on the side lines
                                            Saturday afternoon when Henderson, Ky., high invades 
                                                Terre Haute
                                             for its first tussle with the red and white school here. Herb
                                            Laffoon, smashing fullback and mainstay of the team, according to the
                                            contract, cannot be played against the "Moonshiners," as
                                            the Blue Grass bunch refuses to play against a colored athlete.
                                    
                        
                        
                                    HERBERT W LAFFOON, JR.
                           
                                    
                              CARSON, CALIFORNIA
                              
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
