
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 50, Issue 1, pages 1-91. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:50+issue:1+year:1954&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            "History's Warning Finger"
            Claude G. Bowers∗
            Having recently returned from twenty years abroad, I find some of the present-day trends a bit
                    disturbing to an old fashioned devotee of the American way of life. Not a few of the old ideas
                    appear to have become unfashionable, and new ideas are being advanced that have never been ad-
                    vanced before. This perhaps is due to these confusing days of international revolution.
                    Unprecedented conditions may call for unprecedented methods; but this makes it all the more
                    imperative that we bind ourselves to the old covenant of our liberties, lest in the confusion we be
                    swept into adventures destructive of the American way of life.
            Never in our history has there been a time when it has been so necessary to cling to the old
                    Americanism; to dedicate ourselves anew to the preservation of the freedoms inseparable from a real
                    democracy and to a reaffirmation of the elemental principles of the fathers; and to war on all isms
                    not Americanism, whether they come from either the right or the left.
            To chart our course in the path of the fathers, we have only to read or reread the inspiring story of
                    the American people. History can be read as entertainment since it is but the drama of dead days,
                    and with the atmosphere recreated it can be made as interesting as a television picture of our own
                    time. But the value of history is in the fact that it is a torch that illuminates the past and
                    brings out the mistakes as a warning against their repetition in our own generation. Human nature
                    does not greatly change; and given certain conditions resulting in certain reactions, we may be sure
                        
                  
                     ∗ Claude G. Bowers,.Indiana-born historian, is a former 
                                United States
                             ambassador to 
                                Spain
                             and Chlle. He gave this address before the Indiana Historical Society on
                            December 12, 1953.
               
                     that the ultimate reaction to similar conditions will not be
                    greatly different in our own day.
            I have the feeling that too many school histories for the instruction of our youth are not quite
                    responsive to the needs of our time. The young people learn about the settlement in 
                        Jamestown
                    , about the Revolution, about our various wars and their heroes; but the more vital
                    things in American history that show how we came to have a democracy and our freedoms find too
                    meagre treatment. There is an abundance about our triumphs in war and our material progress in
                    peace; but about that democracy for which so many American boys have died there is much too little.
                    Therefore, youth grows up with the fallacious notion that the blessings we enjoy descended upon us
                    like manna from heaven and without a struggle, and that our free institutions have never been
                    challenged since the adoption of the Constitution.
            It is commonly said that the Americans of colonial days were instinctively democratic, and that is
                    true; that before landing from the Mayflower, the Pilgrim fathers agreed upon a democratic system,
                    and that is true. They who broke with the past in Europe to brave the dangers of the wilderness came
                    here to seek the freedoms of which they had been deprived and in search of the liberties compatible
                    with the dignity of man. They came that they might worship God according to the dictates of their
                    conscience and that they might think out loud without fear of spies, punishments, and prisons.
            Yes, it is true that the people in the first days of the Republic were instinctively democratic; but
                    it is equally true that powerful forces that despised democracy and scorned individual rights were
                    determined to crush democracy in its incipiency.
            The average American does not realize that the Constitution as it came from the Convention made no
                    provision for the protection of the people against the abuse of power by either the executive or
                    legislative branch of the government. This vitally important provision was not omitted because it
                    was overlooked. It was proposed and rejected. It was the protest and the militant leadership of
                    Jefferson that forced the First Congress in its first session to incorporate a Bill of Rights for
                    the protection of the individual and the freedoms of the people. This story is inadequately told in
                    most of the  school histories I have seen. Nor do they
                    sufficiently record that within eight years of the incorporation of the Bill of Rights a desperate
                    effort was made to make a mockery of that convenant of our liberties, to outlaw democracy, to
                    destroy the freedoms, to deny the sacred right of petition, to make the individual a mere cog in the
                    machinery of a police State, and to stamp every man with a liberal or democratic thought as
                    subversive and a traitor.
            This conspiracy, the boldest in our history, seized upon the excesses of the French Revolution to
                    create a prejudice against democracy. It began with a crusade to crush the democratic societies, and
                    everyone subscribing to the democratic creed was denounced as subversive. In large centers of
                    population, where hysteria breeds, they created a reign of terror by the circulation of the most
                    fantastic falsehoods—the Big Lies. When the hysteria began to subside, their press ran
                    the amazing story that the French Army had landed in 
                        Charleston
                     and was marching northward, kidnapping children, attacking women, and giving plantation
                    houses to the flames, and the hysteria rose again. The mobs, feeding on this hysteria, rushed into
                    the streets, smashing the windows of people defending the democratic concept of society. They made a
                    desperate effort to drive Thomas Jefferson from his post as secretary of state. They played the
                    rogues march under the windows of the author of the Declaration of Independence and the architect of
                    the American way of life. They pilfered his mail in the hope of finding a sentence on which he could
                    be arrested for subversion. They pursued him with spies and they circulated against him the most
                    atrocious lies. They smeared the statue of Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                     with mud from the gutters because he was a democrat and a great liberal. And such was
                    the hysteria of the times that the democratic followers of Jefferson were driven from their pews in
                    churches by the insults of hysterical anti-democrat preachers. To arm themselves against democracy,
                    they passed the Sedition Law, the most obnoxious in our history.
            The result was graphically foretold by Edward Livingston in the debate in the House. Note his
                    warning: "The country will swarm with informers, spies, delators, and all that odious
                    reptile tribe that breed in the sunshine of despotic power …. The hours of the most
                    unsuspecting confidence, the intimacies of friendship, or the recesses of domestic retirement,
                    afford  no security. The companion whom you must trust, the friend
                    in whom you must confide, the domestic who waits in your chamber, are all tempted to betray your
                    imprudence or unguarded follies; to misrepresent your words; to convey them, distorted by calumny,
                    to the secret tribunal where jealousy presides—where fear officiates as accuser, and
                    suspicion is the only evidence that is heard. … Do not let us be … absurd
                    enough to call ourselves ‘free and enlightened,’ while we
                    advocate principles that would have disgraced the age of Gothic barbarity."1
            
            With this weapon of despotism they fared forth to destroy the democratic press, and scores of
                    editors, bearing the scars of the Revolution, were dragged from their beds at night, lodged in jails
                    unfit for the habitation of a dog, tried before packed juries—presided over by
                    anti-democratic judges responding to the orders of conspiratorial caucuses—and condemned
                    to prison.
            For two years in our country this despotism had the people by the throat. Resorting to violence, they
                    tried to close the lips of protest by threats and intimidation. They went so far as to propose to
                    make it treason for a member of Congress to attack the Sedition Law on the floor of House and
                    Senate; and then, frightened by the monstrosity of the plan, they conceded the right of congressmen
                    to speak against the law in Congress, but with the warning that the publication of the speech would
                    be an act of subversion.
            The circulation of petitions for the repeal of the Sedition Law was made treasonable. The author of
                    the famous New-burg Letters that rendered such service in the Revolution prepared a powerful
                    petition; and the man who circulated the petition was arrested, paraded on a horse for two hundred
                    miles through the rain to 
                        New York City
                     to the mockery of a trial, and thrown into jail.
            Anti-democratic judges were denouncing democracy and praising the Sedition Law in charges to grand
                    juries. They were tongue lashing as traitors the lawyers for the accused for daring to appear, in
                    the discharge of their duties as officers of the court, in defense of the victims of this nefarious
                    law.
            
               
                  1
                        Annals of the Congress of the 
                                United States
                            , 5th Congress, 1797-1799, June 21, 1798, volume 2, pp. 2014-2015.
            
            
            Now, hysteria has no sense of humor and some of the proceedings were incredibly funny. When a cannon
                    was fired in salute to President Adams and someone laughingly said it was a pity the ball did not
                    land in the seat of his pants, he was instantly arrested for sedition and imprisoned. When a
                    simple-minded old man painted a sign for a liberty pole with the words "No Stamp Act; no
                    Sedition Law," he was arrested for subversion and thrown into jail, where, long forgotten,
                    he languished in durance vile of three long years.
            I submit that it is necessary that the young people should know that our freedoms and inalienable
                    rights did not come to us without a desperate struggle. For two years the Bill of Rights was treated
                    as a door mat. For two years there was no real freedom of the press. For two years free speech was
                    subversive. For two years it was a crime to exercise the sacred right of petition. For two years, in
                    some states, the writ of habeas corpus was suspended. For two years storm troopers, not unlike those
                    of Hitler, roamed the country tearing down liberty poles, smashing the windows of democrats and
                    attacking their persons. Yes, for two years we were setting the pattern for the Stalin's,
                    the Hitler's, and the Mussolini's.
            Happily, the vast majority of the American people were jealous of their freedoms; they knew for what
                    they had been fighting in the Revolution; and they rose in their wrath in defense of their liberties
                    under the leadership of Jefferson and they won the victory that determined that ours should be a
                    democratic republic.
            Now this is what has happened; this is what can happen again; and if history illuminates the past for
                    the warning and guidance of the future, this story should be known to the oncoming generation to
                    alert it to any future threats to our freedom and the American way of life.
            Our immediate menace today comes from the Communists, just as the other day it came from the
                    Fascists—the same tribe. But today we face and fight a system beyond the comprehension of
                    normal minds. We are facing the most barbarous forces the world has known since Genghis Khan sallied
                    forth to reduce mankind to slavery. They rule their people and the nations they have enslaved by
                    terror, with guns and clubs. They dare not permit the light of the truth to penetrate behind the
                    iron curtain. Their cynical dishonesty,  their baseness,
                    brutality, and treachery stagger the credulity of civilized men. They make international agreements
                    with the mental reservation that they are not therewith bound by honor. They entered into an
                    agreement with Churchill and Roosevelt; and before the ink was dry on his signature, Stalin and his
                    minions proceeded to violate the agreement without a semblance of a sense of shame. This was then
                    unprecedented in the relations of civilized nations and from that hour the signature of Moscow has
                    had no significance. They are a menace to the human race and to a Christian civilization; but
                    ultimately we shall crush them with the truth and emerge from the struggle with our freedoms intact;
                    with our freedoms intact—or the victory will be theirs, not ours.
            They have with uncanny cleverness insinuated their agents into strategic positions in every free
                    democratic nation in the world, but we alone appear to be threatened with hysteria. Now, fear is a
                    phantom that pursues the coward, and hysteria is the child of fear. I know, you know, that beyond
                    our borders the people read with amazement about our manifestations of fear and conclude that we are
                    uncertain of ourselves and live in deadly fear of Russia. In 
                        England
                    , where the people suffered so cruelly from the Fascists and Nazis and are in more
                    imminent peril from the Communists than we, they go about their appointed tasks with reasonable
                    serenity and dignity and refuse to break into a run. They, too, have their problems because of the
                    insinuation of enemy agents into strategic positions. Not long ago, they discovered that two trusted
                    officials in strategic positions in the Foreign Office were Communists only after they had made
                    their escape to Russia. Even so, I have yet to hear that any Englishman has questioned the loyalty
                    of Winston Churchill and Anthony Eden. Perhaps the English do have a sense of humor after all.
            I have sometimes wondered if the near-hysteria which threatens our country contributes greatly to our
                    international prestige, or to our reputation for courage, poise, and rational thinking; and I have
                    sometimes wondered if the free nations that are our allies can have confidence in our leadership of
                    the democratic world if we have no confidence in our leaders, in ourselves, or in each other.
            Why is it that the shadow of fear hovers over us like a black cloud? Returning home after a long
                    absence I have  found old and intimate friends strangely reticent
                    in discussing any controversial subject. Of what are they afraid? Then, in former times the word
                    "liberal" had a pleasant sound in American ears; but I find that liberals are now
                    suspected and I sometimes wonder if old-fashioned devotees of democracy are entirely in the clear.
            President Eisenhower rendered a service of incalculable value in the war against fascism and
                    communism; but he has never rendered a greater service than when he protested against book burning
                    and solemnly warned us against hysteria and the danger that in fighting communism we may lose the
                    very freedoms for which we are fighting. His recent speech in 
                        New York
                    , which I heard, set forth some fundamentals of Americanism with lucidity, simplicity,
                    and force. His recent declaration that we shall not attempt to bully and alienate our allies, on
                    whose support we may be dependent, was that of a statesman of sobriety and common sense. He is
                    entitled to the support of all Americans, regardless of party, in his demand for legality, decency,
                    and fair play.
            Reactionaries and the foes of the freedoms always try to take advantage of the crimes of revolutions
                    to turn back the hand on the clock of democracy. Our immediate mission is to meet the peril of
                    communism with all we have; but it would be a mistake not to guard against creeping fascism.
                    Hysteria is the natural ally of fascism; we cannot forget that it was hysteria that swept the
                    hysterical Hitler into power. It would be tragic if before the sod has settled on the graves of our
                    heroic dead we show undue tenderness and partiality to the foes of yesterday who were equally bent
                    on the destruction of our freedoms. We must realize that the Fascists and Nazis, while a bit
                    battered, are still unbowed; that the mobs of young men who attacked the American and British
                    embassies in 
                        Rome
                     are Fascists still, embued with a cold hatred of the great Democracies that crippled
                    their fascist order; and we know that there is a minority element in 
                        Germany
                     seeking the rehabilitation of naziism.
            It is too early to forget that the American boys now sleeping beneath the sod under alien skies went
                    to their deaths with the thought we had projected into their minds that we were fighting against
                    fascism and for democracy; and if these boys can be conscious of what goes on here below we never
                    want them to feel that they went to their deaths with a lie upon our lips.
            
            I have mentioned fascism simply because we have some fascist-minded Americans who say that democracy
                    is not equipped for a successful challenge to communism; that we must fight the devil with fire; and
                    that the fascist method is the best. I have seen that fallacy acted upon before. When I was in 
                        France
                     for two and a half years just before the war I was shocked by the general acceptance of
                    the Goebbels propaganda that democracy is dead and that we must make our choice between communism
                    and fascism. I heard that constantly in social circles in Biarritz and San Jean de Luz. That is the
                    reason that the Democracies lost all their diplomatic battles between the advent of Hitler and the
                    march on 
                        Poland
                    . For five years in Europe, democracy was on the siding and the main line was kept free
                    for the expresses of fascism and communism, flying insulting banners. We don't want that to
                    happen again. It was that state of mind that put our freedoms in peril and made the World War
                    inevitable.
            It is because of this lethargy, or this abnormal state of mind bordering on hysteria, that a
                    rereading and reappraisal of American history, making clear the meaning of democracy, and how it
                    came to us, is of primary importance. Perhaps the old, reared in a day when men had time to read and
                    think, do not require it; and the middle-aged must have understood the meaning of democracy before
                    the twin devils of totalitarianism confused the millions with their clamor, and they may well reread
                    what they once read and recall what they once thought. But the old are passing out, and the
                    middle-aged will soon be old, and the future of our country is with the children of today who will
                    be the citizens of tomorrow. That means that these children must be drilled in school in the meaning
                    of Americanism, and how it came to us after a bitter struggle.
            The other day the school commissioner in 
                        New York City
                     announced the publication of many thousands of pamphlets against communism to be
                    distributed in the schools, and that is well enough; but I wondered why many thousands of pamphlets
                    should not be published for the schools in support of the democratic creed; in simple explanation of
                    its meaning; illustrated by the immortal words of its supreme interpreters, Jefferson and 
                        Lincoln
                    ; and with an honest explanation of why American boys died not long ago on the
                    battlefields of Europe and Asia. In this day of mortal combat between ideologies  it is not enough that the oncoming generation should be against
                    something; to give meaning to its opposition it must be for something. When and if it has to march
                    against the hammer and the sickle, we want it to have a banner of its own.
            The Stalin's, Hitler's, and Mussolini's in their fight for the souls of
                    men, took the child at its impressionable age and poisoned its mind with their lies. It is our duty
                    to teach the child what democracy means, how it came to us, and how it may be destroyed. I submit
                    that school histories should stress the creed of the American way of life, or they fail in a primary
                    function; and that this creed should be impressed upon the minds of the oncoming generation.
            This creed is simple: We believe that democracy charts the American way of life. That means that we
                    believe in the freedom of the press. That means that we believe in the freedom of speech, the right
                    to think out loud without fear; that we believe in intellectual freedom, the freedom of the human
                    spirit; that we believe in the Bill of Rights, and that whittling away any part of it reduces by
                    that much the protection of the people against the abuse of power; that we believe that a police
                    State is an abomination in the eyes of God. That means that we believe that the public schoolhouse
                    is the advance post in defense of our institutions, and that the startling if not subversive
                    belittling of the public schools, the prevalent slashing of their appropriations, the prevalent
                    denial of their budgetary needs, and the fashionable sneers at them today, are undermining the
                    bastian of American defense. That means that we believe in the unification of all free nations to
                    meet the menace of communism, and that it is an utter stupidity to say that we shall need no allies
                    if a world war comes; that we believe in peace as long as it can be maintained without compromising
                    one of the democratic ideals or rights; but that rather than submit to the chains of slavery, to the
                    crushing of the human spirit, to the silencing of the thoughts of men, and the degradation of the
                    dignity of man, we shall be prepared to fight to the last man and the last dollar. This is the
                    American creed for which so many American boys have died.
            It is not enough that the American youth should hate communism or fascism; it is necessary that it
                    should love something—love and understand those elemental  principles embodied in American democracy that stand for liberty,
                    decency, and human rights, and are the guardians of our freedoms. We despise communism because it
                    aims at the destruction of our freedoms and the American way of life that we love; let us be on
                    guard lest in moments of hysteria we sacrifice the things we love to the things we hate. That would
                    be the supreme Moscow triumph.
            I am sure that nothing I have said is new or subversive. It is the old Hoosier philosophy. The
                    thoughts I have submitted were drilled into me many years ago here in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Here at Shortridge [High School] I sat under the teaching of one of the greatest women
                    I have ever known—Laura Donnan. Her vibrant spirit was in tune with that of the founding
                    fathers. She dedicated her life to making oncoming generations worthy of their heritage of liberty
                    by making its meaning crystal-clear. She rendered an incalculable service to this community by
                    impressing on the young their patriotic obligations; and she made an indelible impression on the
                    minds of all who sat under her inspiring teaching. What I have said may be taken as a salute to her
                    memory.
            Yes, we shall fight communism to the finish; and fight fascism to the end; and we shall fight them in
                    such a way that when we emerge with victory we shall find our freedoms unimpaired, the old
                    Americanism uncompromised, and our flag still the flag of the free.
         
         
         
            Albert L. Kohlmeier
            In June, 1953, Professor Albert L. Kohlmeier retired from the faculty of Indiana University after
                    more than forty years as a member of the Department of History. He had served as the
                    department's head from 1926 to 1948.
            The Indiana University Department of History honored Professor Kohlmeier at a dinner, on June 1,
                    1953, at which President Herman B Wells praised Kohlmeier's skill as a teacher, excellence
                    as a scholar, and competence as an administrator, and voiced the hope that, notwithstanding
                    retirement from routine duties, Kohlmeier would continue to be a very active influence in University
                    affairs. President Emeritus William Lowe Bryan expressed gratitude for Dr. Kohlmeier's many
                    years of devotion and service to the University. Professor Prescott W. Townsend of the Department of
                    History and Vice-President and Dean of the Faculties Herman T. Briscoe also paid tributes to
                    Professor Kohlmeier, which the Indiana Magazine of History takes pleasure in here
                    publishing. We are pleased to publish, in addition, two speeches of Dr. Kohlmeier's, the
                    first given on Founders' Day, May 6, 1953, and the second, a complement to the first, made
                    at the dinner in his honor.
            "Albert L. Kohlmeier: Colleague"
            Prescott W. Townsend
            My first association with Indiana University led me to identify this institution with one man. That
                    man was Albert L. Kohlmeier. In him and through him I quickly came to appreciate the tradition of
                    the University and the department in which I have had the privilege of membership. In the history
                    department I found a tradition of long standing, which encouraged the individual to exercise the
                    greatest possible freedom consistent with responsibility to the group. Out of this tradition there
                    has grown a notable esprit de corps, a spirit of loyalty and service, none too
                    common in those days or in these. Professor Kohlmeier was then and has continued to be the
                    embodiment of this tradition and this spirit; under his skillful guidance it flourished and grew. In
                    less competent hands it might have withered and died.
            
            Mr. Kohlmeier regards neither uniformity nor conformity as virtues in and of themselves. As a
                    department administrator he steadfastly insisted upon the worth of the individual student and of the
                    individual teacher. He encouraged each member of the history staff to develop his own capacities as
                    a teacher and as a scholar, each in his own fashion, firmly convinced that thereby lay the greatest
                    good to both individual and institution. If a teacher fell under criticism on some particular count,
                    he would at once point out this teacher's excellent qualities and outstanding successes in
                    ways which the critic had overlooked, but which Mr. Kohlmeier considered important. "If he
                    is not teaching these particular facts, or if not by the method you prefer," he would say,
                    "he is teaching something else, or by another method." In his mind the one
                    absolute requirement was that the teacher teach, and that his teaching be honest,
                    effective, and scholarly. There was no place on the staff for the indifferent and the incompetent.
                    The first and paramount duty of the faculty was to teach.
            In his view the ideal university department is composed of individuals, each with his own special
                    qualifications. That passion for rule, regulation, and regimentation, so often dear to the hearts of
                    those of more limited experience or lesser stature, had no charm for him. This is by no means to say
                    that Mr. Kohlmeier would do without law—no one with his extraordinary grasp of history
                    could harbor a notion so naive—but that the individual should have the utmost freedom
                    within the frame of law. Insofar as possible he preferred to rely upon the individual
                    teacher's sense of responsibility. Conformity to a set pattern or to a rigid system was a
                    vice. It was not a virtue.
            Mr. Kohlmeier is a man of infinite patience and tact. In his relations with colleagues and with
                    students, these qualities have stood him in good stead. This I know from considerable personal
                    experience. It may well come as a surprise to many in our university community to learn that they
                    are not the first to urge revision and promote reform. There were other reformers before them. All
                    could freely present their ideas to him, and any thoughtful suggestion or honest criticism received
                    careful consideration. When the speaker had finished, Mr. Kohlmeier, with a searching, well-directed
                    question, would then draw attention to some vital aspect of the problem which  the eager advocate had overlooked. It rarely failed to touch the heart
                    of the problem.
            Of course there were always those who had not eyes to see, nor ears to hear, those who failed to
                    appreciate his insight. For such, Professor Kohlmeier had an effective method: Allow the person to
                    continue along his own path, until he had learned for himself by the hard way that which he might
                    have learned more easily, had he been willing to listen. In the end there was no recrimination, no
                    sharp "I told you so," at most the suggestion of a smile or a sly twinkle. This
                    too I know from personal experience.
            Above all else I have found Mr. Kohlmeier to be a man of balance. Keen observation of life combines
                    with profound study of history to teach him the line between the petty and the significant, the
                    ephemeral and the eternal, the impractical and the practical. Born of wide experience and a sense of
                    fitness and balance, his wisdom was never more evident than when weighing and testing a new
                    procedure or a proposed change in policy. What are the implications? Where will it lead over the
                    years? These would be his questions. Change for the sake of change has not appealed to
                    him—a quality all too frequently misunderstood by those who mistake all change for
                    progress. Measures which he considered unsound he steadfastly opposed; but if convinced that the
                    proposal had merit, he would lend effective aid. To solve a vexing problem his skill in compromise
                    was often brought to bear; to sacrifice some immediate short-term advantage for the ultimate
                    long-term goal, he regarded as gain; but to sacrifice a principle for an immediate advantage was no
                    gain. This is the path of great wisdom.
            This sense of balance, this feeling for the "golden mean," was invaluable in
                    problems of administration. He readily distinguished the pedant from the scholar. Estimates of
                    scholarship based upon numbers, be they number of titles, number of pages, number of references, he
                    has never confused with appraisals of quality. Far better than most who consider themselves experts
                    in the field, he recognizes the differences between the pedagogue and the educator, between the
                    mechanics and the art of teaching. Throughout his career he well demonstrated that success in
                    teaching depends in the last analysis on the teacher's knowledge and on his personal
                    enthusiasm for his subject.
            
            The oft-repeated dichotomy between teaching and research Mr. Kohlmeier knows to be false. He can take
                    the measure of the man)who, filled with pride (or shall we say conceit?) in the quantity rather than
                    in the quality of his work, seeks to put a less prolific colleague in his place with the
                    condescending remark: "He is only a teacher." This remark we
                    have all heard, and from those who ought to know better. Too often it emanates from one whose
                    success in the classroom is somewhat less than phenomenal. Few understand better than he the value
                    of true scholarship and the essence of fine teaching. He well knows that the superior university
                    teacher excels in both. Of this truth he is himself the superb example, a profound scholar and an
                    inspiring teacher.
            Professor Kohlmeier, on behalf of your colleagues in the history department, I take great pleasure in
                    expressing our appreciation for a leadership considerate, conservative, progressive, and efficient;
                    considerate in your relations with students and staff, conservative in holding fast to the lasting
                    values of education, progressive in your concern for substantial growth, and efficient in carrying
                    out a, policy adapted to those objectives. Members of your department are fortunate indeed to have
                    served under your administration. For a quarter of a century and more the history department of
                    Indiana University has looked for guidance and direction to an outstanding administrator, a man of
                    integrity, and a scholar.
            "Albert L. Kohlmeier"
            Herman T. Briscoe
            I recently came across a copy of the yearbook of my class—the 1917 Arbutus. In this were pictured the full professors, associate professors, and assistant
                    professors then on the faculty at Indiana University. There were fifty-six of these men and women. I
                    was an undergraduate at that time and to me all of these persons were wonderful and great. After
                    many years, during which I have come to know the University much better, and have known many
                    hundreds of persons who have been and are associated with it, I still think this faculty of 1917 was
                    a great one. Dr. Kohlmeier belonged to  that era as well as to
                    this. He knew our strength and also our weaknesses in 1917, and during the years since then he has
                    helped us remember our strengths so that we might increase them. He has also reminded us of our
                    weaknesses and has helped us improve wherever they existed. One of Dr. Kohlmeier's great
                    contributions has been this tie which he has provided with the University's past and with
                    our heritage as an institution of higher education.
            I once sat in a class taught by Dr. Kohlmeier. He was not the regular instructor, but on a few
                    occasions he taught the class when the regular instructor was absent. Those occasions were the only
                    bright spots for me in an otherwise uninspiring course. When he spoke of historical events I could
                    well believe that he was speaking as an eyewitness who had viewed these events. In later years, I
                    have heard him speak many times about 
                  Washington,
                            Lincoln
               , Jefferson, and 
                        Franklin
                    , and when he did so it seemed to me that he spoke as a contemporary, or indeed, as a
                    boon companion, of these men.
            What are Dr. Kohlmeier's contributions? This is both an easy and a difficult question to
                    answer. It is difficult if we attempt to name his contributions one by one. It is easy if we
                    summarize them by the statement: "His contributions are what they are because he is what he
                    is." His contributions have been left in the hearts and minds of thousands of students and
                    many colleagues with whom he has worked. We cannot compare his contributions with those of others
                    because he stands alone. There has been and never will be but one Albert Kohlmeier. His
                    contributions are those of a great teacher, a brilliant historian, and a scholar.
            If I were a youngster interested in becoming a teacher, I could hope for nothing better in my
                    training than to be allowed to sit in his classes and there to observe his methods as a teacher.
            If I were a university president seeking a teacher of history, I would be proud and fortunate to have
                    him on my faculty.
            If I wanted to begin all over again my student days, I would want to have him as my teacher of
                    history.
            For all these qualities we admire and respect him.
            
            If I wished to spend an evening about the fireside, I could wish for no more enjoyable companion.
            If I were to travel through farms and gardens and woods and fields, his company would make my journey
                    happy and complete.
            If I wished to learn about people—little people, unimportant people—I could
                    wish for nothing more than to have him tell me about them from his big heart that is full of
                    understanding, sympathy, and tolerance for them.
            If I thought the whole world were wrong and everyone about me were mad, I should go to him to renew
                    my faith.
            For all these qualities we love him.
            Because of all these qualities, and because he is what he is, he has contributed more than most of us
                    to the institution that he has served, and for all of these qualities we admire, and respect, and
                    honor him tonight. He will always be remembered as one of the University's great.
            Now, to be a little less formal, I should like to say to you, Albert and Lucy, we hope the years
                    ahead may be many and golden. This is not farewell. It is thank you for all you have been and for
                    all that you have done for us, for those who went before and for those who will come after. God
                    bless you both.
            Founders' Day, May 6, 1953
            Albert L. Kohlmeier
            It is only a few days ago, it seems to me, since I came for the first time as a student to Indiana
                    University. The University was quite different, however, then than now. The campus was bounded on
                    the east by Faculty Row and on the west by Indiana Avenue, a mud road separated from the campus by a
                    rail fence. Three of the buildings now on the campus were then standing. The University consisted of
                    a college and a small law school. The student body had just passed the thousand mark and the faculty
                    was proportionably small. In the faculty, however, was an unusual number of excellent teachers, as
                    good as any in the most renowned institutions in our country in which I later studied.
            
            I need not describe for you the University of today—its size; its magnificent equipment;
                    its large student body and faculty; the number of autonomous schools besides the college; the
                    increased offerings in studies, some added because the Hoosiers are now concerned with distant
                    peoples and movements of which then we only knew by hearsay—hearsay months if not years
                    old when it reached us. Other added studies and fields of knowledge, now vitally related to our
                    existence, were not even known by hearsay then because no one on earth knew anything about them.
            This accelerated development of the University along many lines is not only an illustration but in
                    some respects an epitome of the historical process in which I have been so long interested. When I
                    came here, I, with the majority of people, believed that the act of creation had taken place and
                    been completed a few thousand years ago. Now I, along with the majority of people, believe that the
                    process of creation is continuing in our own day with a frequently increased acceleration and that
                    man—thinking man—is in some respects the most significant instrument in that
                    process.
            I repeat to you only a truism when I state that heredity and environment shape and mould and change
                    man from generation to generation. But man—thinking man—also changes his
                    physical, social, and spiritual environment. What is the result? The environment changes man; the
                    changed man reacts upon his environment and changes it; the changed environment, changed by thinking
                    man, in turn reacts on man and further changes him. A chain reaction, if you please. Not long ago
                    some of you were frightened out of your wits for fear that some venturesome nuclear physicist would
                    succeed in splitting the wrong kind of atom and thereby set up a chain reaction that he
                    couldn't stop and that our earth would be consumed in the conflagration and us with it. One
                    of the most important chain reactions is the one between thinking man and his environment that began
                    about a million years ago or so, when man first began to think somewhat as a man, and has been
                    continuing ever since and is proceeding in our own day with breathtaking acceleration. This is the
                    historical process. To express it in a different way, history is the record of man's
                    struggle for freedom. Every time that thinking man wins a victory over his limitations, over the  forces that keep him earth-bound, he enlarges the area of
                    freedom of operation of his mind and enlarges his capacity to advance to a new victory.
            Now, the rate of acceleration of the thought of man has not been the same through the ages. It is not
                    as simple as that. There has been a series of changes in the rate as it has changed phases, or
                    mounted from one level to a higher level of acceleration, somewhat comparable to the change of speed
                    of movement of the atoms when ice changes to water and water to steam. That is, thought continues to
                    accelerate until literally it reaches the limit of acceleration on that level or in that phase.
                    Thinkers are stopped short by facing a stone wall that they can't penetrate. This always
                    marks a crisis. Sometimes the leaders of thought of a given, culture are able to scale the cliff by
                    changing phase and proceeding on a new plane. Sometimes they fall back and then renew the attack
                    from a new approach. Sometimes they fall back, give up, and accept the fact that the vitality of
                    their peculiar culture is spent. The path of history is strewn with the wreckage of civilizations,
                    some promising, some glorious, that have been arrested because their thinkers failed.
            It is obvious that the length of astronomical time required to pass through each succeeding level of
                    acceleration is shorter than the preceding one. The length of time spent by man when his thought
                    acceleration was in terms of his own physiological movement is measured in terms of the hundreds of
                    thousands of years of prehistorical experience. The length of time required to pass through the era
                    when the acceleration of thought was geared to his concepts of his simple mechanical devices is
                    measured in terms of the few thousand years of early history. Thought acceleration at the rate of
                    the steam engine reached its limits in about a century and then leaped to the rate of
                    electromagnetism. Since I came here as a student fifty years ago, time and again thinkers have
                    seemed to find themselves facing a sheer cliff in some particular line of thought but have succeeded
                    in scaling it. Crises resulting from challenges to thought and victories over them have been almost
                    continuous in certain lines, even while the fate of civilization hung in the balance. But thinkers
                    have not been equally successful along all lines. Western civilization again stands today at the
                    threshold of another new heaven and a  new earth that may become
                    a reality to the minds of its thinkers.
            When the pioneers crossed, the Appalachians and poured into the beautiful 
                        Ohio
                     Valley, those who came to this state laid the foundation of a common school system and
                    founded the first state university west of the mountains and one of the first in the world. Some of
                    those men perceived vaguely that the support by all of education among the common people was not
                    only necessary for the fate of democracy but that the support of higher education was essential to
                    the continuance of civilization itself through the historical process. Today when the people of this
                    state, through the General Assembly, go all out in support of the University, and when alumni and
                    friends give their loyalty and affection, it is not because they want young men and women to have a
                    soft seat in the economic world or a glamorous position in the social world; it is because they
                    realize that the University exists to screen and select and develop those thinkers that shall
                    continue to surmount the barriers and make possible the continuance of the historical process with
                    our culture in the vanguard.
            Response, June 1, 1953
            Albert L. Kohlmeier
            To some of you last Founders' Day, I indicated my interest in the historical
                    process—the accelerating chain reaction between thinking man on the one hand and his
                    physical, social, and spiritual environment on the other. One aspect of this process, which I did
                    not then even mention, has peculiar relevance to this occasion. It is this: Any new and worthwhile
                    thought can be transmitted by the thinker to a contemporary or to someone of a later generation only
                    if the thinker, before passing from the stage of action, succeeds in adequately embodying his
                    thought or incarnating it in some physical structure or symbol—such as the spoken word,
                    the written characters upon paper or parchment or graven stone, the notations of the score of a
                    musical masterpiece, the beautiful painting upon canvas, the labor-saving machine, the political or
                    social institution in which men constitute the human cog wheels of the machine or organization. It
                    is interesting  how the spirit works through and perpetuates
                    itself by making use of the material. If the thinker fails to accomplish this, fails to clothe his
                    thought in physical form, no matter how profound or important his thought, no matter how beautiful
                    or sublime his emotion, they will be as fleeting and transient as the colors of the dawn before the
                    rising sun. But if he succeeds in clothing his thinking in appropriate physical form, this physical
                    symbol will have the capacity in varying degree of withstanding the ravages and wreckage of time and
                    drift down into the future as the carrier of the thought and emotion of the past. Some man in the
                    future may then be able to penetrate the symbol and wrest from it its inner meaning, and the thought
                    of the original author will vibrate and live again in a revised form in the mind of the man of the
                    later generation. It will, of course, not be exactly the same thought. Only in the case of the
                    scientifically isolated and artificially controlled fact can the thinker transmit his thought
                    exactly to either a contemporary or to someone of a future generation. It makes possible the nice
                    balance between continuity and change so essential. It makes possible the conservation of all that
                    is most important in the thinking in the past and the replacement of the less important, with the
                    new, and possibly better. Possibly the authors of great religious creeds, of political
                    constitutions, and of legal codes, in some cases hoped that they could bind future generations to
                    think after them exactly as they thought. But they succeeded in preserving only the best. Future
                    generations will read into these historical documents not completely new but slightly new meanings.
                    The symbols had to serve as the old bottles into which the new wine was to be poured.
            The historical process in which man is the central figure then shares one of its outstanding
                    characteristics with all living forms in their evolution and development. The vegetation of the
                    fields completes its function by depositing its fruit and promise of the future upon and into the
                    earth in order that after the winter of death there may be the new flowering of a new and somewhat
                    different generation in the spring. Death is as essential to the historical process as is birth. The
                    writer of the fourth Gospel pointed out that the word, the truth, absolute truth, was here from the
                    beginning. Prophets had discovered much of this truth, including those  human values that make up the core of Christianity and of other noble
                    religions. But, said the writer of the Gospel, "The Word had to become flesh." The
                    truth had to be embodied in physical form—the idea of Christianity had to become
                    concrete. The ideals of justice and love and mercy had to be translated into actual concrete acts of
                    kindness, and brotherhood and mercy, by a Man. But that could not be the end of the process. This
                    way of life might not be forever restricted to one person and place but must be released through
                    death that His spirit could live again in men of future generations and might be adopted and applied
                    in new ways, under changed and changing conditions.
            Finally, I wish to add that the continuance of the process is not inevitable. It can fail through the
                    failure of man. Man can fail to do the things that will make the process continue to function. Some
                    of my students and colleagues have sometimes asked me, "Do you think that with all our
                    libraries, laboratories, and machines it would be possible for civilization to pass through another
                    period like the Dark Ages?" And my answer has been: The writings of Plato and Aristotle and
                    the statues of Phydias were still existent during the Dark Ages. The writings of Plato and Aristotle
                    were used to stop up rat holes or at best used by the monks who copied them to preserve their
                    knowledge of Latin. The monks knew the meaning of most of the words but not of the sentences. A
                    statue by Phydias during the Dark Ages served as a doorstep to the hovel of a Greek farmer, but the
                    symbol did not reveal its beauty and meaning to him. If tomorrow no one could really penetrate the
                    meaning of the books in our libraries or understand the symbols in the scientific formulas or master
                    our complicated machines, all these things would be just so much junk. Besides the discovery of the
                    truth and its embodiment in physical symbols, the historical process is greatly aided if an
                    understanding of the truth can be transmitted by the living contact of mind with mind, from mother
                    to her babe, from teacher to pupil, from professor to student, from him who knows and in addition
                    can illumine the mind of those who have the capacity to carry the torch. I believe this. It has for
                    me been the compelling conviction of my life.
            You have been much too kind. I do not deserve so much. I have faced death. Rather, death has looked
                    me steadily in  the eye. Then when I felt the books must be
                    closed and the accounts cast up and all the past came to mind in an instant, I confessed that I had
                    accomplished so little when I had had so much. Sometimes in the small hours of the night I have
                    wished that I hadn't chosen to be a professor and given so much of my time and myself away.
                    Instead I wished that I had played the game and been somebody. It would have been so easy. But
                    tonight I don't feel that way. With so many of my former students and friends about me, my
                    faith in the historical process is strong.
         
         
         
            Matthew Simpson, the Methodists, and the Defeat of Governor Samuel Bigger, 1843
            Robert D. Clark∗
            The common explanation for the defeat of Governor Samuel Bigger of Indiana in the gubernatorial
                    campaign of 1843 is that he was deserted by the Methodists and the Presbyterians, both of whom were
                    dissatisfied with Henry 
                        Clay
                    , cavalier leader of the Whig Party.1 The explanation is a shrewd
                    guess based upon fact, error, and a rather unsatisfactory hypothesis. Some of the Methodists
                    deserted Bigger, perhaps enough of them to prevent his re-election, but the Presbyterians, at least
                    the New School Presbyterians, were his warm supporters. The defection of the Methodists had little
                    or nothing to do with Henry 
                        Clay
                    . It was prompted, rather, by their quarrel with Bigger and the Presbyterians.
            The first generation of American Methodists had opposed higher education, but by 1830 they perceived
                    its importance to the retention of their young people and the advance of the church. The
                    Presbyterians of Indiana controlled both the board of trustees and the faculty of Indiana College at 
                        Bloomington
                    , which had opened in 1828. In addition, the New School and the Old School factions of
                    the Presbyterian church had established colleges at Wabash and 
                        Hanover
                    .2 Protesting against the domination of the state university by
                    "one religious sect," the Methodists sought to gain some representation on the
                    board and the faculty. They outnumbered the Presbyterians in the state four to one, and so, in 1834,
                    attempted the stratagem of placing the election of the hitherto self-perpetuating university board
                    in the hands of the legislature. In the angry debate which ensued, a Presbyterian lawyer from 
                        Rushville
                    , Samuel Bigger, laughed the Methodists out of court. He doubted their competence to
                    manage a "literary institution." When 
                        Ohio
                     University wished to get a Methodist professor, he said, "They
                        had to send to Europe for him."
               3
                    
                  
                     ∗ Robert D. Clark is Assistant Dean, College of Liberal
                            Arts, University of 
                                Oregon
                            .
                  
                     1 Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (3rd ed.; 2
                            vols., 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1924), I, 531; J. Wesley Whicker, "Dr. John Evans," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), XIX (1923), 233-35.
                  
                     2 William Warren Sweet, Indiana Asbury-DePauw University,
                                1857-1937 (
                                New York
                            , 1937), 26-29.
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., 29.
               
                     In view of the fact that no Methodist preacher in Indiana was a
                    college graduate, Bigger's contempt was not altogether unfounded. Nor did it seem
                    especially impolitic when, moving to lay the Methodist proposal on the table, he secured the
                    overwhelming support of his fellow legislators.
            The Methodists, however, were considerably stirred up over the matter. "Why don't
                    we start a school of our own?" demanded "Indiana Itinerant" in the Western Christian Advocate. The Presbyterians of Indiana had 4,000 members, he
                    argued, and controlled three schools, the Methodists 24,000 members and "no voice in
                        any."4 After a bitter fight in the legislature, a committee of the
                    Indiana Annual Conference secured a charter and opened a preparatory school at Green-castle. In 1839
                    the trustees called to the presidency, of their new Indiana Asbury University Matthew Simpson,
                    brilliant young vice-president and professor of natural philosophy at Allegheny College. College
                    classes began with the summer term.
            Simpson was cheered with the financial prospects of Indiana Asbury. Agents had secured pledges
                    amounting to $60,000 and confidently expected to increase the amount by another
                    $20,000 before the fall term opened. The college building was under construction, costs
                    were low, and most of the money raised from pledges could be used to establish a permanent
                    endowment. Before the year was over, however, the financial panic of 1837, which had prostrated the
                    nation, spread to Indiana. The promising subscription to the university shrank until it was scarcely
                    enough to pay for the building. At the end of his first year, Simpson had to report to his trustees
                    a deficit of $449.02, an indebtedness which by 1843 had increased to
                    $4,610.26. The board was forced to pay the professors in its own scrip.5
            
            Added to the desperate financial struggle was a bitter sectarian rivalry among the church schools.
                    Simpson had quarreled with the Presbyterians before. Suspicious of their motives, he was extremely
                    sensitive to their contempt of Methodist learning. In 1840 the census taker in 
                        Putnam
                    
                    
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 30, citing article signed "Indiana Itinerant," in
                                Western Christian Advocate, January 9, 1835.
                  
                     5 Allen Wiley to Matthew Simpson, May 29, 1839, Bishop Matthew Simpson
                            Papers, Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.; Irving Frederic 
                                Brown
                            , Indiana Asbury University, DePauw University: A History (
                                Greencastle
                            , 1914), 21.
               
                     County, a Presbyterian sympathizer, reported simply a grammar
                    school at 
                        Greencastle
                     and no college or university. Wabash and 
                        Hanover
                    , meanwhile, designated in the census as colleges, received the public documents which
                    Congress had ordered sent to all institutions of higher learning, none of which were sent to Asbury.
                    Simpson angrily reported the incident to his Methodist friends as an example of the
                    "dishonorable and dishonest" conduct of the enemies of the institution.6
            
            Much more serious was the favor which Wabash College secured at the hands of the state legislature.
                    In September, 1839, fire destroyed the main building of the New School Presbyterian college at 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . Faced with this catastrophe, and unable to raise the money for reconstruction, the
                    authorities began to cast about for a loan. They soon hit upon a happy idea. The state sinking fund,
                    set up to stabilize the banks, was, when the banks had fully repaid their loans, to go to the
                    support of public education. Why should not a small bit of the more than a million dollars in the
                    fund be loaned to 
                        Wabash
                    ? The college promptly applied to the commissioners of the sinking fund and received a
                    loan of $8,000 on which interest was to be paid annually, in advance. In two
                    years' time the college, caught in the financial collapse of 1842, was forced to default on
                    its interest payments. Friends of Wabash rushed to the state legislature and secured the passage of
                    a bill which suspended interest payments on the loan from May, 1842, to December 31, 1846.7
            
            In the meantime, the Presbyterians further inflamed the suspicions of the Methodists by what seemed
                    to the latter an open attempt to gain control of the common schools and the sinking fund. While the
                    legislature of 1842-43 was in session, Henry Ward Beecher, with the support of Samuel Merrill, James
                    M. Ray, and others, sponsored a convention on education. Beecher was pastor of the Second
                    Presbyterian Church of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Merrill, the president of the State Bank, was the leading layman of his church.
                    Ray, also a Presbyterian, was cashier of the bank. Both Beecher and Merrill were trustees of Wabash
                    College. On the day before the opening of the convention, Beecher, Merrill, and Ray met in 
                  
                     6 Matthew Simpson to James M. Grooms, September 22, 1842, Simpson
                            Papers.
                  
                     7 Governor James Whitcomb, Veto Message, January 14, 1847, copy in ibid.
                  
               
                     secret caucus in the bank, named themselves the principal
                    officers of the convention, and invited the Presbyterian Governor Samuel Bigger to preside over the
                    deliberations. Lacking the foresight to put Simpson on the program, they requested him to address
                    the convention only after his friends had created a considerable disturbance. Simpson promptly
                    declined the tardy invitation and the word went forth among the Methodists that he had been publicly
                        insulted.8
            
            Governor Bigger, elected to office in 1840, was the selfsame legislator who had spoken so derisively
                    of Methodist educators, a decade earlier. Simpson, chafing over the loan from the state sinking fund
                    to Wabash College and angered by the Presbyterian-management of the convention, began to suspect
                    influence and favoritism in high places. Bigger was the man, Simpson reminded his Methodist friends,
                    who had said there was "not a Methodist in America with sufficient learning to fill a
                    professor's chair."9
            
            Simpson's dissatisfaction spread like an irritating rash among the Methodists, but it was
                    catching among the Whigs, too, and soon reached the governor. Alarmed at the prospect of losing
                    Methodist support in the coming summer's campaign for re-election, Bigger called for help.
                    Dr. L. G. Thompson of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    , a prominent Methodist physician, who was also a Whig, brought together Simpson, E. R.
                    Ames, the young missionary secretary of the Methodist Church, S. C. Cooper, Indiana Asbury agent,
                    and himself for a meeting in the governor's office. Simpson repeated his charges and
                    Governor Bigger hotly denied that he had been motivated by contempt, or that he had intended any
                    such derogatory remarks about Methodist educators as had been attributed to him. Scarcely convinced,
                    but unwilling to call the governor a liar, Simpson pledged that he would not repeat the charges.
                    Ames, an ardent Democrat and a skillful politician, looked on with some satisfaction while he began
                    to calculate the political power of the "Amen corner" of the Methodist Episcopal
                        Church.10
            
            In the spring of 1843 the Whigs, as expected, nominated 
                  
                     8
                            Indiana State Sentinel, July 24, 1843, letter signed
                            "Education's Friend"; ibid., August 1, 1843,
                            letter signed "Right of Conscience Man"; L. W. Berry to Matthew Simpson,
                            July 26, 1843, Simpson Papers.
                  
                     9 Matthew Simpson to James Stryker, July 3, 1843, ibid.
                  
                  
                     10 S. R. Ball to Matthew Simpson, July 6, 1843, ibid.; Sweet, Indiana Asbury-DePauw University, 29.
               
                     Samuel Bigger for re-election to the governorship. To oppose
                    him, the Democrats named James Whitcomb, a worshipper with and strong supporter of the Methodists.
                    It was generally assumed by the Whigs and conceded by the Democrats that Methodists and
                    Presbyterians alike were predominantly Whigs. In this campaign, however, the Democrats, observing
                    the tenseness of the denominational struggle, saw an opportunity to detonate the charged atmosphere
                    and in the ensuing storm to drive off a large segment of the Methodist vote from the Whig party. The
                        Indiana State Sentinel, a Democratic paper published in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , opened the campaign with a cleverly conceived rumor that the Whigs were attacking
                    Whitcomb because he was a Methodist. The 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Advertiser, also Democratic, confirmed the charges, adding that his being a
                    Methodist ought to be "a recommendation instead of an objection."
                    "What!" exclaimed the Advertiser piously, "has it come
                    to that, that a desperate political press shall urge it as an objection to James Whitcomb
                    … that he is a Christian!"11
            
            The Whigs, alarmed by this turn of affairs, wheeled out for a replying volley their biggest gun, Noah
                    Noble, former governor of the state and worshipper in Lucien Berry's Methodist chapel in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Noble and others, in an "Appeal to Methodists," published in the
                    Whig Indiana State Journal, denied that the Whig press had ever made any such
                    objection to Whitcomb, and called upon the Sentinel and the Advertiser to produce its evidence. It is a "trick," Noble charged, with
                    some justice, an "attempt to force the church to subserve the interests of one political
                        party."12
            
            The Sentinel, enjoying its advantage hugely, taunted the Whigs. They were a little
                    late in their efforts to woo the Methodists; moreover, one of the men who signed the Noble letter
                    had been denied membership in the Methodist church. Subtly reviving the anti-Methodist charge
                    against Bigger, the Sentinel opined that the "enlightened
                    people" of that denomination were not "to be insulted to their faces by the
                    highest dignitary in the State, and then do the bidding of men, one of whom, at least, has been
                    refused admission to the Methodist church, even on a probationary basis."13
            
            
               
                  11
                        Indiana State Journal, June 27, 1843, citing Indiana State
                            Sentinel, n.d., and 
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Advertiser, n.d. Letter signed by Noah Noble and others.
               
                  12
                        Indiana State Journal, June 27, 1843.
               
                  13
                        Indiana State Sentinel, July 4, 1843.
            
            
            Meanwhile, President Simpson, on a speaking tour in southeastern Indiana in behalf of his university,
                    found himself embroiled in the political battle. A literalist on occasion, he adhered strictly to
                    his pledge not to repeat the charges against Governor Bigger. But in his conversations and in his
                    lecture on education he was able to convey, by subtle allusion, the impression that Methodists were
                    "competent" to conduct their own educational interest, notwithstanding the opinion
                    of some who were "high in authority." When men pressed him directly for a
                    statement of his relation to the Governor, he denied any political motivation on his own part, but
                    he repeated the Methodist grievances against Bigger, together with the Governor's
                    insistence that he had not intended his remarks about the Methodists to be interpreted as they were.
                    Some who sat in Simpson's audience, or heard reports of his speeches second hand, thought
                    that his allusions to the Governor were not subtle at all. Ready to magnify the significance of his
                    remarks, or to read into them what he had not said, they reported to Bigger that the president of
                    Indiana Asbury, ostensibly on the circuit to raise money for his college, was actually on an
                    anti-Whig electioneering expedition.14
            
            The flame burned high in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and lighted up the far corners of the state. The editor of the Whig State
                        Journal heard from twenty "veritable sources" that Simpson was trying to
                    defeat Bigger. Lucien Berry, pastor of one of the Methodist chapels in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , an ardent Whig but a more ardent Methodist, reported, delightedly, that in forty-eight
                    hours there had been scarcely a half hour in which he had not received a visit or a note from some
                    one of the leading Whigs or Democrats, all anxious to know the truth about Governor Bigger, Simpson,
                    and the Methodists.15
            
            Dr. L. G. Thompson, of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    , reminded Simpson of the interview they had had with the governor in which he
                    understood "the whole business to have been satisfactorily explained &
                    adjusted." Was not that Simpson's understanding? Another Methodist Whig from 
                        Brownstown
                     had heard that Governor Bigger had treated Simpson with personal disrespect. He was
                    certain that the story was only rumor, but the kind of rumor that would have an injurious 
                  
                     14 Matthew Simpson to James Stryker, July 3, 1843, Simpson Papers; L.
                            W. Berry to Matthew Simpson, July 26, 1843, ibid.; Ira Grove to Matthew
                            Simpson, September 15, 1843, ibid.
                  
                  
                     15 L. W. Berry to Matthew Simpson, July 26, 1843, ibid.
                  
               
                     effect upon the "perspects" of the governor;
                    it was a "naked justice" therefore, that the public mind be disabused and that
                    Bigger be relieved of the reproach which had been "inflicted upon him with no sparing
                        hands."16
            
            Beecher, Ray, Merrill, and Co., were incensed by Simpson's "politicking."
                    They denounced his electioneering tour, they discredited the Bigger stories, they denied that
                    Simpson had been affronted at the educational convention; they affirmed that he had been invited at
                    an early period to address the convention but had refused "in order to create sympathy
                    & make the publick believe he was overlooked." Beecher, goaded into an egregious
                    blunder, publicly castigated "P-r-e-s-i-d-e-n-t S-i-m-p-s-o-n" at the Wabash
                    College commencement exercises for his meddling with and attempt to thwart the purpose of the
                    educational convention.17
            
            A Methodist straightway reported the Beecher incident to the receptive Sentinel.
                    The editor of the Whiggish Journal hastened to reply. But unhappily he revealed
                    more than the public was supposed to know. Wise Methodists, said the Journal,
                    would regard the attempt to visit the supposed sins of Mr. Beecher upon Governor Bigger as
                    "an insult to their sense." Besides, Mr. Beecher, who, of course, would not
                    "notice, in the least degree, an anonymous correspondent," had assured the editor
                    that the tale of his castigation of President Simpson was "false in every
                        sense."18
            
            Lucien Berry could restrain himself no longer. In an anonymous but cleverly written letter he exposed
                    Beecher, Merrill, and Ray, gave further credence to the rumors about the Governor, and accused the
                        Journal of political intrigue. Why did the editor of the Journal connect Beecher's insult to President Simpson with the campaign of Governor
                    Bigger? The public knew of no such connection. Was it because the editor knew that Beecher, Merrill,
                    and Ray had met in the bank to elect themselves officers of the convention? Did he mean to insinuate
                    that because the governor "happened to be called to preside, therefore,
                    they all conspired to insult Simpson, and Cooper, and Ames, and all of the Church,
                    by 
                  
                     16 S. R. Ball to Matthew Simpson, July 5, 1843, ibid.; James Stryker to Matthew Simpson, June 16, 1843, ibid.
                  
                  
                     17 L. W. Berry to Matthew Simpson, July 26, 1843, ibid.;
                                Indiana State Sentinel, July 24, 1843, letter signed "Education's
                            Friend"; ibid., August 1, 1843, letter signed "Right of
                            Conscience Man."
                  
                     18
                            Indiana State Journal, July 28, 1843; Indiana State
                            Sentinel, August 1, 1843, letter signed "Right of Conscience
                        Man."
               
                     forciby [sic] excluding them from any
                    participation?" Furthermore, said Berry, with some sarcasm, he was too well acquainted with
                    Mr. Beecher's "character for veracity" to believe that the said Mr.
                    Beecher had declared the story "false in every sense." Too many men who had heard
                    Beecher at 
                        Crawfordsville
                     were willing to say that the story was "TRUE IN NEARLY EVERY
                        SENSE."19
            
            Democrats intrigued with Methodists to get the Beecher speech published. An excited Whig dared the
                    Methodists "to vote against us." "If they do," he threatened,
                    "THE WHIG PARTY WILL BLOW THEIR COLLEGE AND CHURCH TO HELL."20
            
            Simpson's personal interest in the campaign was quickened also by the political activities
                    of two of his friends, Joseph A. Wright and Dr. John Evans. Wright, a member of the state
                    legislature and a trustee of Indiana Asbury, was a candidate for the 
                        United States
                     Congress in the seventh district. Dr. Evans, a physician, having vainly tried to secure
                    Bigger's support for reform measures, particularly in the care of the insane, was directing
                    a Whig revolt against the governor in Fountain County.
            The election was held in mid-August. Out of a total of 110,000 votes, Whitcomb won over Bigger by the
                    narrow margin of 2,000. It was the first Democratic victory in over a decade. In Fountain County,
                    where Dr. Evans, a Whig, had campaigned against his own party, Whitcomb led his opponent by a
                    decisive majority. In the seventh district Joseph Wright squeaked through to Congress by a majority
                    of but three votes.21
            
            The Indiana Whig charged the Methodists with voting "almost to a
                    man" against Bigger,22 and the 
                        Bloomington
                    
                    Post warned the Methodists to "look well to the safety" of their
                    college. An "insulted and exasperated" public would wreak its vengeance upon an
                    institution whose "holy head" would condescend to go through the country
                    "making political speeches in behalf of so base a hypocrite as James
                        Whitcomb."
               23
                    
                  
                     19
                            Indiana State Sentinel, August 1, 1843, letter signed "Right of
                            Conscience Man."
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., August 1, 1843, "A Sick Whig."
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., September 5, 1843.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., September 12, 1843, citing Indiana Whig and New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Democrat, n.d.
                  
                     23
                            Indiana State Sentinel, August 22, 1843, citing 
                                Bloomington
                             Post, n.d.
               
                     The 
                        Greencastle
                    
                    Western Visiter pronounced the Post charges "false in
                    toto," and "a base and ungentlemanly attack upon President Simpson."
                    Bigger, the Visiter pointed out, had done better in 
                        Greencastle
                     than had the Methodist Whig candidate for Congress.24 The editor of
                    the Indiana State Journal, who shrewdly perceived that the Methodists must not be
                    permanently alienated from the Whig Party, likewise repudiated the charges of the Post. The Locofocos might have kept a few Methodists from voting for Bigger, he wrote, but an
                    analysis of the returns would show that Whitcomb had received some 6,000 votes fewer than the
                    electorate had given Bigger in 1840. The trouble was that the "slumbering mass" of
                    Whigs had stayed at home, not bothering to vote.25
            
            That winter, when the legislature convened, the Senate committee on education was
                    "pleased" to invite President Simpson to deliver a "public
                    address" on the subject of education, an invitation which he accepted. In January, a
                    Methodist member of the Whig nominating committee proposed Simpson for a place on the Whig electoral
                    ticket, an honor which he declined.26 When James Whitcomb took over his
                    gubernatorial duties he promptly recommended the establishment of a hospital for the insane, named
                    Dr. Evans as the first superintendent, and appointed Simpson to the board of directors of a proposed
                    school for the deaf and dumb.
            In due time, Joseph A. Wright took up his duties at 
                        Washington
                    , D. C. When Simpson and Berry importuned him to use his influence with President John
                    Tyler to give his support to Samuel 
                        Henderson
                     (who had so warmly "espoused the cause of Methodism versus
                    Bigger") for the 
                        Indianapolis
                     postmastership, Wright happily complied, and in a short time was able to report that
                    the President had sent 
                        Henderson
                    's name to the Senate for confirmation.27 The Methodists
                    were doing well in Indiana politics.
            The matter which had precipitated the whole struggle, the Wabash College loan from the sinking fund,
                    had not, however, been finally settled. The grace period extended to December, 1846, which marked
                    the first convening of the 
                  
                     24
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Western Visiter, August 24, 1843.
                  
                     25
                            Indiana State Journal, August 23, 1843.
                  
                     26 W. T. S. Cornell to Matthew Simpson, December 27,1843, Simpson
                            Papers; L. W. Berry to Matthew Simpson, January 29, 1844, ibid.
                  
                  
                     27 L. W. Berry to Matthew Simpson, January 10, 1844, ibid.; Joseph A. Wright to Matthew Simpson, February 7, March 23, 1844, ibid.
                  
               
                     legislature after Whitcomb's second successful
                    gubernatorial campaign. With Whitcomb re-elected and political affairs settled, friends of Wabash
                    College in the legislature brought in a bill to write off the college's indebtedness, now
                    grown to $10,600. The college, in lieu of payment of the debt, would surrender bonds
                    (which were worthless) and in addition would give five years' free instruction to some one
                    hundred young men, one from each county, who wished to become common school teachers.28
            
            Berry, in accordance with Methodist practice, had been sent on to another station, but the Rev. John
                    Bayless, his successor at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was quite as concerned about Methodist interests. Alarmed at the prospect of
                    establishing all over the state one hundred "preparatory departments" for 
                        Wabash
                     (such an advantage as he would give ten years labor to secure for Asbury), he begged
                    Simpson to come to 
                        Indianapolis
                     "without delay."29
            
            Simpson and Ames (of whom it was said, he "rules the governor") hurried over to the
                    capital to try to defeat the bill. As a counter measure, Simpson hastily drafted a petition to the
                    legislature for a loan of $10,000 to Indiana Asbury University for a period of ten years.
                    In lieu of interest, Asbury would, for the period of the loan, educate, free of tuition, common
                    school teachers for each of the counties of the state. By way of justification, Simpson set forth
                    the financial plight of the institution, and demanded that the legislature act justly and
                    impartially in its relation to the several colleges.30
            
            For the moment the strategy worked. It was whispered about that Simpson had taught Bigger a lesson
                    and that he would "learn" the legislature another that it would not soon forget.
                    The legislature, however, defiantly passed the Wabash bill while it made short shrift of
                    Simpson's proposal. The Methodists still took comfort in the rumor which was current,
                    "on good authority," that Governor Whitcomb would veto the bill. The rumors were
                    correct. The governor vetoed it and there was loud talk about the "influence"
                    which was brought to bear upon him, and murmurs about the Bigger 
                  
                     28 James Whitcomb, Veto Message, January 14, 1847, copy in ibid.
                  
                  
                     29 J. S. Baylesa to Matthew Simpson, December" 28, 1846, ibid.
                  
                  
                     30 L. W. Berry to Matthew Simpson, March 31, 1847, ibid.; memorandum entitled, "An Act to loan funds to the Indiana Asbury
                            University," ibid.
                  
               
                     affair. The Methodists were jubilant, but the "visage
                    of Mr. Beecher … was gastly [sic]."31
            
            It was not long before the blood returned to Mr. Beecher's face. The wily governor had
                    vetoed the bill, but he held his veto until the last moment allotted to him by law; it arrived at
                    the legislature at a doubtful hour and the Senate refused to accept it. Thus the
                    "iniquitous Wabash College Bill" became law.32
            
            Berry, from his new post at 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               , was furious with the legislature and not a
                    little surprised that Simpson, Ames, and Bayless "did not possess sufficient
                    skill" to defeat the New School Presbyterians. He could find only one consoling thought in
                    the transaction: The next common school convention, he was sure, would recommend the appointment of
                    a state superintendent of public instruction. The legislature, after having "petted and
                    favored" the New School Presbyterians, would not dare deny the Methodists the
                    super-intendency. The Methodists must not take a chance, however; they must go up to the next
                    convention in such numbers that the Presbyterians could not run over them with impunity. If the
                    Methodists could get the superintendency, the Presbyterians could have their $10,000, for
                    then the church of Wesley and Asbury would, after all, "take the lead in the work of
                    Education and place our University where it Should be."33
            
            Berry was wrong in the details but right in the results. Five years later when the state of Indiana
                    was ready to name its first superintendent of public instruction, it elected to the office William
                    C. Larrabee, Methodist preacher, and professor of mathematics at Indiana Asbury University.
            
               
                  31 S. T. Gillet to Matthew Simpson, January 14, 1847, ibid.; A. W. Harrison to Matthew Simpson, January 15, 1847, ibid.
               
               
                  32 L. W. Berry to Matthew Simpson, March 31, 1847, ibid.
               
               
                        33
                        Ibid.
                    
            
         
         
         
            Editor's Page
            The Indiana Historical Society will meet May 8, 1954, at 
                        Shelbyville
                    . The Shelby County Historical Society is to be host to this semi-annual meeting of the
                    state organization. A luncheon and business meeting are planned, at 12:30 P.M. at the Elks Club, 46
                    West 
                        Broadway
                     Street; the luncheon will cost $1.75. Included in plans for the afternoon
                    are a tour of historical points of interest in the county and a talk on the significance of the
                    Whetzel Trace.
            John Graham Lemmon, President of the Shelby County Historical Society, is in charge of arrangements
                    for the meeting.
            The annual spring meeting of the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley Historical Society will be April 22-24, 1954, at the Loraine Hotel,
                            
                  Madison, Wisconsin
               . The meeting will feature the famous Draper Manuscripts,
                    collected by Dr. Lyman C. Draper, first executive of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Historical Society. Before coming to 
                        Wisconsin
                     in 1852, Draper had collected manuscripts in 
                  Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia
               , the Carolinas, and other parts of the Old West.
                    Upon his death in 1891, the manuscripts came by bequest to the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Historical Society.
         
         
         
            Notes on Wabash River Steamboating
            Early 
                        Lafayette
                    
            
            Eleanore A. Cammack∗
            
                    The first Steamboat that ever entered the Wabash came to 
                            Lafayette
                         in 1826. The citizens were seized with wonder, and not sooner was the plank thrown
                        ashore than she was boarded by all who could crowd on her. When she was made fast the engineer
                        let off steam, the noise of which led all to think she had bursted, when every last man jumped
                        overboard and made for shore as fast as his half drowning state would permit them.1
               
                
            Immediately following the War of 1812 an internal improvement party sprang up all over the 
                        United States
                    . The need for an improved system of transportation was great, for farmers had no
                    adequate method of transporting their surplus products to markets. Every state was busy with a
                    "System." Logan Esarey wrote that from 1817 to 1827 "the
                    ‘System’ was the commonest subject of discussion. No one knew exactly what was
                    meant by the ‘System,’ but it was felt that as soon as possible the State by
                    some means or other, would construct some kind of a system of transportation that would answer the
                    needs of the people."2
            
            
               
                        New York
                     was among the first of the states to feel this need of a system of transportation and
                    in 1817 started a canal to Lake 
                        Erie
                    . Later, this line was extended in Indiana from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to 
                        Lafayette
                     to 
                        Evansville
                    , by the Wabash and 
                        Erie
                     Canal.
            Although the people of the state of Indiana were united in the proposal to improve the
                    state's internal system of roads and rivers, a division of energies existed. Two factions
                    arose: One favored 
                        New York City
                     as the best market for its goods; the other looked to 
                        New Orleans
                     as the leading city to receive the state's produce. Even after the Wabash and 
                        Erie
                     Canal was built, one route for shipping produce was down the Wabash River to the larger
                    rivers and on to 
                        New Orleans
                    . From there to 
                        New York
                    , transportation was comparatively 
                  
                     ∗ Eleanore A. Cammack is Order Librarian and Assistant
                            Professor, Libraries, Purdue University.
                  
                     1 G. W. Hawes, 
                        
                                    Lafayette City
                                 Directory, 1858-1859 (
                                Lafayette
                            , 1858), 115.
                  
                     2 Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (3d ed.; 2 vols., 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1924), I, 401.
               
                     easy. E. J. Benton writes of this route: "In 1836 the
                    cheapest freight route from 
                        New York
                     into southern Indiana was by 
                        New Orleans
                     and the rivers. The canal boards adjusted their tolls so as to meet the river
                        rates."3
            
            The settlers in the region of the Wabash River had high hopes for making the river a very useful
                    thoroughfare for shipping. They found it hazardous, however, because of snags, sunken logs, sand
                    bars, and rocky rapids. The first survey undertaken to ascertain these obstructions and consider
                    their removal was carried out on state appropriations by William Polke and Thomas S. Hinde, river
                    commissioners, in 1823, at the request of the governors of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . The river was examined for fifteen miles above and below the Grand Rapids, which were
                    just below 
                        Vincennes
                    . In a beautifully handwritten document the commissioners urged the improvement of the
                    navigation of the river from the "mouth to the source." With
                    "inconsiderable expenditure," they believed, the river could be made navigable to
                    the portage point, 
                        Huntington
                    . A canal built from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to 
                        Huntington
                    , then, would open a waterway directly from Lake 
                        Erie
                    , and the "Western country" generally would be benefited. In
                    conclusion the commissioners wrote: "It most evidently appears to be the natural route for
                    connecting the waters of Lake 
                        Erie
                     and of the 
                        Ohio
                     river."4
            
            The estimate of the "inconsiderable expenditure" was between $25,000 and
                    $35,400, and was considered beyond the means of the two states at this time. No
                    appropriation, therefore, was made.5
            
            The cry from 
                        New York
                     and Indiana for an extension of the 
                        Erie
                     Canal was so great in the early 1820's that in March, 1827, the federal
                    government donated "a strip of land one-half of five sections wide"6 to Indiana, provided it would start the actual digging for the canal by 1832. Early in
                    that year the digging of the Wabash and 
                        Erie
                     Canal was begun. The 
                  
                     3 E. J. Benton, "The Wabash trade Route in the Development of
                            the Old Northwest," Johns Hopkins University Studies in History and
                                Political Science (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1883-), XXI (1903), 105.
                  
                     4 William Polke and Thomas S. Hinde, Survey Report to Governors of
                            Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                            , 1823. Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . In this survey the commissioners also report on surveying sites for two
                            canals, one on either side of the river, one each for 
                                Illinois
                             and Indiana.
                  
                     5
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Free Press & Commercial Advertiser, April 8, 1836.
                  
                     6 A section of land contains 640 acres (one square mile); the federal
                            government gave Indiana 1600 acres.
               
                     first section, from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to 
                        Huntington
                    , thirty-two miles, was opened with celebration on July 4, 1835.7
            
            The settlers of Tippecanoe County in their internal improvement plans talked at length during those
                    early years of proposing 
                        Lafayette
                     for a port of entry; therefore, a "memorial and joint resolution of the
                    Legislature of the state of Indiana, relative to the propriety of declaring 
                        Lafayette
                     on the Wabash river, a port of entry" was sent to the
                    state legislature late in 1834. The bill requested that 
                        Lafayette
                     be made a port of entry because it was advantageously situated in one of the most
                    fertile parts of the western country; the river could be made navigable, so the report read, for the
                    entire year; and by making this city a port, the state would be complying with the Northwest
                    Ordinance, which declared that "the navigable waters leading into the 
                        Mississippi
                     and St. Lawrence … shall be common highways and forever free."8 The bill, which included a request for federal appropriations to improve the
                    navigation of the river, was approved by the legislature on December 31, 1834; Senator John Tipton
                    soon presented it to Congress. Both houses approved it, but President 
                        Jackson
                     vetoed the measure.
            In the second survey of the 
                        Wabash
                    , presented to Congress in 1834, is an excellent description of the river: "The
                    Committee on Roads and Canals, to whom was referred ‘A bill to improve the navigation of
                    the Wabash river,’ beg leave to report: … The
                        Wabash river, thirty miles westwardly of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , becomes a considerable stream, and previously uniting with the Salamania, the
                    Mississiniway, and numerous other small streams, it forms a junction with Eel river at 
                        Logansport
                    , and there exhibits the appearance of a large and noble river. From this point,
                    however, to the mouth of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , it is rough and rapid, and the navigation obstructed by rocks and bars. The mouth of
                    the Tippecanoe river is considered the head of steamboat navigation, as it is also the western
                    termination of the Wabash and 
                        Erie
                     canal, though steamboats have frequently ascended a few miles higher up, and in one
                    instance, as high up as 
                        Logansport
                    , at the mouth of Eel. From the mouth of Tippecanoe to its juncture with 
                  
                     7 Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 408.
                  
                     8
                            Laws of a Local Nature, Passed and Published at the
                                Nineteenth Session of the General Assembly of the State of ?Indiana, [1834-1835],
                                Chapter XXVII, 280.
                  
               
                     the 
                        Ohio
                     river, is a distance of more than 500 miles by the river. Above 
                        Vincennes
                     the navigation is not materially obstructed, except in times of very low water, when
                    there are many sand bars, lodgments of drift wood, snags, and sunken logs to be encountered; and for
                    about four months in each year, except for very small boats and craft, it cannot, in its present
                    condition, be said to be navigable at all. The chief obstructions however, and the dangerous
                    obstructions, are to be found below 
                        Vincennes
                    , where the river has great size and much power, and rushes with tremendous force and
                    velocity through rapids obstructed by rocks, and islands, and crooked channels. A region of river
                    here, chiefly above the mouth of White river, of 15 or 20 miles in extent, is that which presents
                    the greatest obstacle to its navigation. These obstructions consist of ripples, eight or nine in
                    number, and create in various places of the river, difficult and dangerous navigation, in all not
                    exceeding three miles… . The Grand rapids, which are the most difficult and extensive of
                    these, and where the river has its greatest width, has two and a half feet depth at low water; and
                    at this place the obstructions are in length about three quarters of a mile… .
            "No river of the west, in proportion to its size, is connected with a country so generally
                    and so extensively fertile… . Its lands are proverbial for their fertility. The villages
                    on its banks have already become large and prosperous, and the quantity of produce borne upon it to
                    the Orleans market, considering the newness of the country, exceeds that of any other of the
                    secondary rivers of the west. It is indeed the largest tributary of the 
                        Ohio
                    , and certainly in many respects, the most important one. …"
            Concerning the river's export trade the report states: "In the year 1828, between
                    twelve and fifteen hundred flat boats descended the Wabash and White rivers from the country above
                    Mount Carmel, all bound for a southern market; and the annual increase of this trade has been
                    estimated at thirty-three and a third per cent, from the year 1820 to the present time. This ratio
                    of increase, however, has occasionally been checked by occurrences of dry seasons, in which these
                    obstructions prevented the boats and the produce of the country from getting out of the river. Such
                    was the last year, in which the losses sustained by the people of the Upper 
                        Wabash
                    , on account of the condition of the river, are estimated at $400,000.  The import trade of this river is proportionably great; but the
                    present condition of the trade and of the country, exhibits a faint and languid picture of what may
                    be expected in a few years hence, when its navigation shall be improved, and a canal opened to
                    communicate with Lake 
                        Erie
                    ."9
            
            The Indiana General Assembly, in January, 1835, passed a bill appropriating $12,000 to be
                    used in clearing the Wabash River of the "most dangerous and prominent"
                    obstructions to steamboat navigation. During the summer and fall, however, the water was too high
                    for operations and not much could be accomplished.10
            
            The Wabash and 
                        Erie
                     Canal was finally finished in 1843; 
                        Lafayette
                    , regarded as the great steamboat landing and commercial center of the region, was its
                    southern terminus.11 Soon regular packet lines on the canal were in competition
                    with packets on the river; a through line of traffic by canal and river from 
                        New York City
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                     had been established.
            The village of 
                        Lafayette
                     was laid out in 1825 by William Digby, about the time the first steamboat chugged up
                    the Wabash River to the new hamlet. Sandford C. Cox, an early settler in that part of the state, has
                    left an intimate picture of 
                        Lafayette
                     and the river in its vicinity about 1828: "If I was called upon by a
                    lithographer for an original sketch of the town of 
                        Lafayette
                     and its suburbs, as it was when I first saw it, I would in the first place draw the
                        Wabash river, on a proper scale, … give its exact curve and
                    meanderings, with a ferry flat, skiff, canoe, two perogues, and a keel boat, moored along its
                    eastern bank, near the foot of Main street. I next would sketch three or four rude cabins, scattered
                    along on the bank of the river, from Main street to the foot of Ferry street…. Near the
                    bank of the river,… I would draw a few large sugar trees, growing on a beautiful blue
                    grass plat. … On the blue grass … between the sugar trees and the ferry, I
                    would draw a group of men—some pitching quoits, some hopping three hops, others
                    wrestling, while others would be trying to get up a foot race… . The streets were then
                    opened in patches, between houses only, and the mads and 
                  
                     9 "Report of the Committee on Roads and Canals," in
                                Senate Documents, 23 Cong., 2 Sess., II, No. 18 (serial number 267),
                            2-4.
                  
                     10
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Free Press & Commercial Advertiser, May 29, 1835, April 8, 1836.
                  
                     11 Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 408.
               
                     paths were cut through the brushwood and timber that covered the
                    most of the town plat."
            Cox wrote of the river: "Its green banks were lined with the richest verdure. Wild flowers
                    intermingled with the tall grass that nodded in the passing breeze. Blossoms of the wild plum,
                    hawthorn and red-bud made the air redolent. The notes of the black-bird and blue-jay mingled with
                    the shrill cry of the king-fisher, river-gull and speckled loon… . Schools of
                    fishes—salmon, bass, red-horse, and pike—swam close along the shore, catching
                    at the blossoms of the red-bud and plum that floated on the surface of the water."12
            
            There is evidence that steamboats were running on some parts of the Wabash River as early as, or
                    earlier than, 1823. A traveler in the region wrote in a letter of 1818: "It is expected
                    that a steam boat will be in complete operation on the 
                        Wabash
                    , next spring or summer."13 In the river survey of 1823,
                    "boats drawing 20 inches of water" are mentioned as having negotiated a ripple
                    nine miles below 
                        Vincennes
                    . The boats that made their way up the Wabash were small: vessels of forty, eighty, or
                    one hundred tons were common. Infrequently there were some weighing as much as 250 tons. Even these
                    were toy boats as compared to the 1,467 tons of the well-known "Robert E. Lee," or
                    the 1,837 tonnage of the "Delta Queen," the steamboat that runs the 
                        Ohio
                    -
                        Mississippi
                     tourist trade today. Tippecanoe County is listed in the Indiana
                    Gazeteer for 1850 as having eight boatbuilders. Lytle's Merchant Steam
                        Vessels of the 
                            United States
                        , 1807-1868 lists three boats as having been 
                        Lafayette
                    -built: "Sam Gronendyke," "Governor Morton," and
                    "May Flower."14
            
            In spite of the many surveys and much talk of the Wabash River, not everyone was aware of its
                    existence. L.H.S., an unknown gentleman, probably of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , told the following story: "It will no doubt seem strange to the people of the
                    present day—but it was nevertheless perfectly true that some of the Captains of the
                    little boats then plying in the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Pittsburg trade, were ignorant of even the 
                  
                     12 Sandford C. Cox, Recollections of the Early Settlement
                                of the Wabash Valley (
                                Lafayette
                            , 1860), 23-25, 27, 75-76.
                  
                     13 Harlow Lindley, Indiana as Seen by Early
                            Travellers (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 112 n.
                  
                     14
                            Indiana Gazeteer (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1850), 400; William M. Lytle, Merchant Steam Vessels of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1807-1868 (Mystic, 
                                Connecticut
                            , 1952), 283, 78, 125.
               
                     name and locality of the Wabash River. The following
                    well-remembered incident will afford an illustration. A small boat landed at the wharf, and I went
                    on board and enquired for the Captain. He presented himself, and I said, ‘Captain, I want
                    to charter a boat.’ ‘For what trade,’ he said. ‘For the
                    Wabash River.’ ‘The Wabash River!—where the d—l is
                    that?’ ‘Why, don't you know? The river that empties itself into the 
                        Ohio
                     above Shawneetown.’ ‘Umph! catch me risking my boat up that
                    — creek.’ And this was not a solitary case—for such or similar
                    scenes occurred with a half a dozen others."15
            
            Among the steamboat men who did find the 
                        Wabash
                    , however, was Thomas Hill Rogers, grandfather of Bruce Rogers. He was one of the first
                    steamboat captains to ascend the river, probably in the late 1830's. "He was so
                    pleased with the prospects of the then infant city of 
                        Lafayette
                     that he moved his family and possessions [t]here in 1840, a year after John Purdue
                        arrived."16
            
            Looking at the Wabash River today at 
                        Lafayette
                    , as it takes its muddy way beneath the city's 
                        Brown
                     and Main Street bridges, one may well wonder if there could ever have been a wharf at
                    the foot of those precipitous banks. Today there are no signs whatever of pavement or other
                    construction. An ordinance providing for the making and grading of a wharf on the Wabash River
                    between Ferry and 
                        Columbia
                     streets was passed August 4, 1835.17 In April, 1846, wharfage in
                    the amount of $94.00 was collected.18 Part of this amount was
                    undoubtedly canal tolls.
            The 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Daily Courier of October 17, 1850, stated: "The City Engineer was
                    instructed to survey the Wharf from Main to Ferry Streets, as to the best means of improving and
                    repairing the same." In the Courier of January 31, 1851, was a paragraph
                    titled, "Wharf Improvement." "Our City Fathers are pushing ahead this
                    work with commendable energy … The plan adopted will help, materially, the access to the
                    steamboat landing—give more room for the unloading of goods—the grade will be
                    easier, and in appearance will be decidedly for the better …. The cost of the present
                    improvement will be about $1200."
            
               
                  15
                        
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Daily Courier, March 26, 1853.
               
                  16 William M. Hepburn, unpublished paper on Bruce Rogers.
               
                  17
                        
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Free Press, August 28, 1835.
               
                  18
                        Tippecanoe Journal & 
                                Lafayette
                             Free Press, April 30, 1846.
            
            
            In 
                        Lafayette
                    's City Hall is filed the original "Ordinance for Regulating the City
                    Wharf passed May 25, 1853." 
                        Lafayette
                     became incorporated in that year; thus this document is signed by its first mayor,
                    James O'Brian. The handwritten ordinance states in part: "Sec. 1, Be it ordained
                    by the Mayor and Common Council of the City of 
                        Lafayette
                     that the city Marshall shall have charge of and superintend the city wharf and collect
                    all charges against all boats or vessels as herein provided and keep a correct account with day and
                    date of the number of boats of every description, that may land at said wharf … and pay
                    over to the treasurer of the said city, the amount of charges collected by him during the preceding
                    week, as wharfage …. Sec. 2, That the rates of charges for landing and discharging at
                    said wharf … shall be as follows, Viz[:] For every steam boat, of less burden than 100
                    tons, the sum of three dollars, and over one hundred tons, the sum of four dollars. For every other
                    boat, water craft, floats, or other vessel of burden, … the sum of one dollar. The above
                    charges will entitle the said boats, or other vessels to lay at said wharf for forty-eight hours
                    only, and for any longer time, steam boats shall pay One dollar per day. Keels, flats, or other
                    vessels, fifty cents per day, excepting Sundays, and in cases, where boats or other vessels are ice
                    bound. All boats, vessels, floats, or rafts, landing at said wharf, at the same time or lying at
                    said wharf, or any goods or property of any kind lying on the wharf, shall be subject to removal, or
                    ordered away by the Marshall, after having laid a sufficient time to discharge, or to be removed.
                    This power shall only be exercised under the necessity of giving place to others." Section
                    three concerned itself with the master or the owner or agent of any water craft who refused to pay
                    the city marshall the wharfage due, or who failed to carry out any other provision of this
                    ordinance; a delinquent would be convicted before the mayor and fined a sum not exceeding fifty
                        dollars.19
            
            The 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Daily Courier for June 21, 1853, carries a message from Mayor O'Brian, in
                    which he states that the "city wharf is not sufficiently large to accommodate the
                    increasing commerce of our city …. Within the past year the wharf has paid into the city
                    treasury about $300.00, which 
                  
                     19 Ordinance Record, City of 
                                Lafayette
                            , May 14, 1853—October 18, 1872, pp. 19-20. This document is filed in
                            the 
                                Lafayette City
                             Hall.
               
                     is about 20% upon the cost of its construction… . The
                    city is in possession of nearly all the ground lying between the canal and the river … it
                    is hoped that during the current year something will be done to extend the wharf, either up or down
                    the river."
            This description of a steamboat's arrival at 
                        Lafayette
                     is found in the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Daily Courier of March 20, 1850: "Ding-Dong-Ding Cheerfully sounded, this
                    morning, the bell of the Packet awaking the pleasant reflection that spring is really upon us, and
                    that we are fairly emancipated from the icy bonds of winter. There is excitement in the movements of
                    water craft, no matter how frequent it occurs, that never tires. Upon the arrival and departure of
                    every steamer will the wharf be seen crowded with eager gazers, as intensely interested as though it
                    was the first time the scene had been witnessed. And even as the packet bell is heard in the
                    distance, giving notice of its coming, many are attracted thereby and wend their way to witness its
                    arrival."
            This vessel arriving at 
                        Lafayette
                     is recorded as having just "discharged freight at the ports of New
                            
                  Albany, Evansville, Henderson
               , Uniontown, 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    , Graysville, 
                  Mt. Carmel, Vincennes
               , Hudsonville, Darwin, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Tecumseh, 
                        Clinton
                    , Montezuma, Perrysville, 
                        Covington
                    , and 
                        Attica
                    ."20 This unknown vessel might well have been the
                    "Tribune," one of the well-known Wabash packets. "We just dropped in upon
                    [the] beautiful steamer this morning, and were truly surprised to see the magnificence of style in
                    which she has been gotten up. We have neither time nor space today to give a description of her
                    proportions or appointments, but we will say that she is far ahead, in every particular, of any boat
                    that has ever visited our city. The ‘Tribune’ leaves for 
                        Evansville
                     this morning at ten o'clock, and as she is of very light draught, there are no
                    fears apprehended of a delay in consequence of the low stage of the river."21 The "Tribune," a sidewheeler of 251 tons, drew twenty inches of
                    water. Built in New 
                        Albany
                    , Indiana, in 1849, expressly for the Wabash trade, she carried (as did most western
                    river boats) passengers and freight. The "Tribune" was scheduled to leave 
                        Lafayette
                     every Thursday at 10:00 A.M. It is recorded that she made 
                  
                     20
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, January 18, 1850.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., December 6, 1849.
               
                     at least three trips to 
                        Lafayette
                     in the year before she burned in a 
                        Louisiana
                     bayou, in 1850.22
            
            Another vessel that docked at the 
                        Lafayette
                     wharf was the "J. W. Stockwell." The editor of the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Daily Courier wrote that this steamboat "has paid annual visits to this
                    city every spring, for the last five years—indeed, ever since she was launched, and came
                    plowing the wave to her old ‘headquarters’ last night. As usual, she was
                    freighted to the guards with groceries for that ‘mammoth establishment’ of
                    Fowler, Earl and Bruce. It is a singular fact and worthy of note, that the J. W.
                        Stockwell never fails to find a freshet in the Wabash when she comes, so universally has
                    this been the case that our merchants begin to watch the movements of this steamer more than they do
                    the clouds, etc."23
            
            The editors' columns in the 
                        Lafayette
                     newspapers of the time included market and weather reports, river and canal boat
                    timetables, and eulogies of the town; they give a picture of a struggling pioneer river community.
                    "Business is rather lively than otherwise in 
                        Lafayette
                    . The sound of the hammer is continually falling upon the ear, and the eye is delighted
                    with the passing and repassing of wagons and canal boats laden with the surplus products of our rich
                        soil."24 The April 6, 1843, issue of the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Daily Courier records: "The river has risen about 3 feet and a half and
                    is still rising slowly. Four steam boats are lying at our Wharf, discharging and taking in freight.
                    There is a general buzz of business… . Wheat is worth 37 and a half cents per bushel and
                    flour from $2.25 to $2.37 per bbl."25
            
            The steamboat register was an established part of the early 
                        Lafayette
                     newspapers during the high-water months of February, March, April, May, October,
                    November, and December. After 1843, when the canal register was added to that of the steamboat
                    record, the combined boat listings during high-water months were impressive. The following is an
                    example from a newspaper in 1844: 
                  
                     
                     
                     Arrivals
                  
                  
                     April
                     24
                     Pinta, 
                                    Pittsburgh
                                
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     29
                     
                        
                           Monticello, Cincinnati
                        , and Nathan Hale, 
                                    New Orleans
                                
                                
                           
                              22
                                        Ibid.; Lytle, Merchant Steam Vessels of the 
                                                United States
                                            
                              , 189.
                           
                              23
                                        
                                            Lafayette
                                        
                                        Daily Courier, March 27, 1856.
                           
                              24
                                        Tippecanoe Journal & 
                                                Lafayette
                                             Free Press, November 3, 1842.
                           
                              25
                                        
                                            Lafayette
                                        
                                        Daily Courier, April 6, 1843.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     30
                     H.S. Thibedaux, 
                                    New Orleans
                                , and Cicero, 
                                    Pittsburgh
                                
                     
                  
                  
                     May
                     1
                     Alpine, 
                                    Evansville
                                
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     Departures
                  
                  
                     April
                     25
                     Pinta, 
                                    Evansville
                                
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     29
                     
                                
                           Monticello, Logansport
                        
                            
                  
                  
                     
                     30
                     Nathan Hale, 
                                    New Orleans
                                
                     
                  
                  
                     May
                     1
                     H.S. Thibedaux, 
                                    New Orleans
                                
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     1
                     
                                
                           Monticello, Cincinnati
                        
                                26
                            
                  
               
            
            
            
               
                        Lafayette
                     newspapers recorded little about freight or passenger rates on the Wabash steamers. One 
                        Lafayette
                     paper, however, printed an article on passenger rates copied from the 
                        Wheeling
                    
                    Gazette. "The Gazette very properly remarks however,
                    that some Steam Boats charge less, the prices depending, in some degree, upon the number of boats in
                    port, and the abundance of or scarcity of passengers. We extract from the table the distance from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     of some of the principal points, with the price of cabin passage charged: 
                        
                     Pittsburg to 
                                    Wheeling
                                 96 mi. $ 3[.]00
                     
                        
                                    Portsmouth
                                 350 " 10[.]00
                     
                        
                                    Cincinnati
                                 451 " 13[.]00
                     
                        
                                    Louisville
                                 583 " 15[.]00
                     Natchez 1704 " 30[.]00
                     
                        
                                    New Orleans
                                 2004 " 35[.]00
                  
                    The above prices include boarding. The prices of deck passage are about one fourth of these,
                    the passengers finding themselves. Thus to 
                        Louisville
                     the deck passage is $3, cabin $12 [sic]; to 
                        New Orleans
                    , deck 8, cabin 35. The deck is covered, and contains berths, but it is a very
                    undesirable way of traveling. The passage to 
                        Louisville
                     is generally performed in 21/2 days and to 
                        New Orleans
                    , is from eight to ten; returning nearly double this time. The ordinary speed of the
                    boats is 12 miles an hour down the river, and 6 up. 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Adv."27
            
            Louis Hunter, in Steamboats on the Western Rivers, states that freight rates
                    fluctuated greatly according to high or low water. Low water meant cargoes were lessened, charges
                    heightened; high water, charges lowered. "During the 1840's freight rates from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                     ranged from as little as 8 cents per hundred pounds to as much as $1.50;
                    from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to 
                        Louisville
                    , from 10 cents to $1.62; and from 
                  
                     26
                            Tippecanoe Journal & 
                        
                                    Lafayette
                                 Free Press, May 2, 1844.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Free Press, May 29, 1835.
               
                    
                    
                        Pittsburgh
                     to 
                        St. Louis
                    , from 20 cents to $2.00."28 The important rates
                    for both steamboat men and shippers were those which prevailed during the active seasons of
                    navigation and shipping; these seasons were spring and late autumn on a large part of the river
                    system. At these times steamboats offered much the cheapest form of transportation available in the
                    West during the several decades immediately preceding the Civil War. Newspaper items of 1851
                    indicate that in 
                        Lafayette
                    , at least, the shippers set the rates: "The boats that come up here complain
                    of the very low freights offered by our shippers—they say they can generally do better
                    below." "But few boats come here for the reason that they can get better, or
                    equally as good, prices below. Our shippers must be a little more liberal."29
            
            In a letter from Thomas T. Benbridge to John Tipton is a record of freight on the 
                        Wabash
                    , shipped on the steamboat "Sylph." What distance the freight was
                    shipped is not told. The letter is as follows: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                 
                              
                           
                                    6 April 1834
                                
                        Hon John Tipton
                        Dear Sir The Steam Boat Sylph arrived here on 26 Ulto with your furniture on board
                                    which she brought up from the rapids with orders to leave it with some person that
                                    would advance the fregit & charges beleiving that you would sooner hav them
                                    this near home advanced the freight fifty eight dollars ninety two cent &
                                    requested Mr C Virgus to inform your agent at 
                                        Logansport
                                     that they were here & to send for them, the safest way from
                                    this place will be in waggons as on board of a Keel or Pirogue they will be more
                                    likely to get rubbed & damaged it is all in good order except the Centre
                                    table one of the legs is unglued which I shall have glued on before it leavs this
                                    [place].
                        
                                    Yours respectfully
                                    Thos. T. Benbridge30
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            It is highly probable that the majority of boats which came to 
                        Lafayette
                     carried both passengers and freight. One Wabash River boat, however, the
                    "Richard Henry Lee," was "exclusively for freight having only a 
                        Texas
                     deck for the accommodation of officers." As the "Lee"
                    departed for 
                        Evansville
                    
                    
                  
                     28 Louis Hunter, Steamboats on the Western Rivers
                                    (
                        Cambridge, Massachusetts
                     , 1949), 375.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, February 28, March 3, 1851.
                  
                     30 Nellie Armstrong Roberts and Dorothy Riker, The John
                                Tipton Papers (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1942), III, 47.
               
                     from 
                        Lafayette
                    , with 4,000 sacks of corn, the Courier editor wrote: "She is
                    the best money-making boat that has yet come here."31
            
            Another departure from the usual combination freight and passenger vessels on the Wabash was the
                    "Floating Palace." Compared to present-day advertising posters, the wood cut of
                    this boat in the April, 1853, issues of the Courier is somber indeed. At the top
                    of the picture are the words: "Spalding & Rogers' Circus
                    Company." The prices of seats for the circus performance were advertised: "Dress
                    Circle, all arm chairs"—fifty cents; "Family Boxes, Cushioned
                    seats"—twenty-five cents; "Colored Gallery"
                    seats—fifty cents; and "Gallery" seats—twenty-five cents.
                    The "Floating Palace" was scheduled for stops on April 27, 28, and 29, at
                    Independence, 
                        Attica
                    , and 
                        Covington
                    , and so forth on down the river.32 She seems to have been a variant
                    of the showboats which came to the rivers after the turn of the nineteenth century.
            There were many accidents on the rivers involving steamboats. Louis Hunter classifies steamboat
                    accidents into five main kinds: "explosions and other accidents caused by the escape of
                    steam; snaggings; collisions; fires; and a miscellaneous class which came to be listed in government
                    reports as ‘wrecked and foundered’ and included accidents due to storms, to
                    grounding, and to striking rocks and other obstructions."33 Most of
                    these kinds of accidents occurred at one time or another on the Wabash River, according to
                    contemporary newspaper accounts, examples of which follow:
            On Friday, June 5, 1835, the "Osage," a small sidewheeler of eighty-nine tons,
                    loaded with salt, nosed up to the 
                        Lafayette
                     wharf. As she attempted to dock, she struck the corner of the wharf and "broke
                    a hole in the hull." "We understand it was not discovered at the time that any
                    damage was done the boat. She dropped down a short distance, for the purpose of a more commodious
                    landing, but before a landing was effected, it was discovered that the boat was sinking. She was
                    immediately brought to, and for a long time thought that exertion would be in vain; that she must
                    sink; but through bailing her and discharging freight, she was kept afloat till 
                  
                     31
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, February 25, 27, 1851.
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., April 20, 1853.
                  
                     33 Hunter, Steamboats on the Western Rivers,
                        271.
               
                     she was secured fast to the shore, and by means of cables swung
                    to the trees growing on the bank. After securing her in this manner, the freight was discharged, and
                    the leak stopped … there was a considerable loss sustained in freight … we
                    have heard to the amount of fifteen hundred or two thousand dollars." The next morning,
                    however, the "Osage" left for the rapids."
            "The Fairy Queen, a 60 ton sidewheeler, on her passage up stream on Sunday
                    last, struck a snag, about four miles below this place, and sunk immediately, in seven feet of
                    water. By the unremitting and laborious efforts of the crew and passengers, however, she was raised,
                    and arrived here on Monday … The damage to the cargo (salt) will probably not exceed one
                    thousand dollars. The Fairy Queen has gone up stream, having repaired here
                    sufficient to justify the experiment."35
            
            "A card to the public: We the subscribers, passengers on the steam boat 
                        
                            Monticello
                        
                     (121 tons) sidewheeler, on her trip from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        Lafayette
                    , would state in justice of the commanding officers of said steamer, that during the
                    trip, and especially that part of it, wherein they attempted and finally succeeded, in crossing the
                    grand rapids, that every exertion was made to save from damage the goods, that were unavoidably sunk
                    in one of the Lighters, by being blown into the top of a fallen tree that projected from the bank,
                    while crossing the Rapids. And we feel particularly grateful to Capt. Edmund Gray, and his officers,
                    for their kind attention and gentlemanly conduct during the trip." This testimonial was
                    signed by eighteen passengers.36
            
            "The steamboat W. H. Day (57 ton stern wheeler) took on board a full cargo
                    of Flour at our Wharf the latter part of last week, destined for 
                        New Orleans
                    ; but, owing to carelessness, want of knowledge, of the channel, or something else, she
                    ran aground upon the sand-bar just below the paper mill—where she still remains. She has,
                    we believe, discharged her freight and abandoned the trip. The flour is owned by Messers Hull
                    & 
                        Spencer
                    , proprietors of the 
                        Lafayette
                     Mills."37
            
            The steamboat "American" (118 tons) "ran aground 
                  
                     34
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Free Press, June 12, 1835.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., March 4, 1836.
                  
                     36
                            Tippecanoe Journal & 
                                    Lafayette
                                 Free Press, May 2, 1844.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., December 24, 1846.
               
                     near the foot of South Street attempting to leave the wharf. Her
                    cargo was 1600 bbls. flour for 
                        Evansville
                    ." (More than a year later another newspaper item concerning the
                    "American" appeared. "This boat which has lain at the lower landing for a
                    year past, has had the machinery taken out, decks razed and the hull is now being fitted up for a
                    barge. The machinery and boilers are reserved by Mr. E. H. Halliday for a distillery. The house will
                    be converted into a kitchen or out-building or perhaps a residence for some humble citizen of the
                    town. The hull has been purchased by Judge Crane, an occasional speculator in produce, to carry a
                    load of sack oats to 
                        New Orleans
                    , for which destination she will start with current speed in a few days. If any one is
                    desirous to float down the 
                  Wabash, Ohio
               , and 
                        Mississippi
                     we presume they can get a birth [sic] …. For further
                    particulars inquire on board.")38
            
            The steamer "J. B. Porter," a 62-ton sidewheeler, "was sunk by striking a
                    snag in the Wabash river a few days ago. She will, it is supposed, be a total
                    loss." (The following year, however, this boat was advertised to run regularly during the
                    season as a Wabash packet. The final record is that she was abandoned in 1852.)39
            
            "A few days since the steamer Cabinet came in collision with the 
                        Covington
                     Draw Bridge while in the act of passing. The boat was injured very materially and the
                    estimated loss is $2,000. The boat, contrary to the usual manner, attempted to pass
                    through the draw bow foremost. The circumstances attending the accident will keep the boat from
                    recovering damages. The bridge was not damaged."40
            
            A "passenger named Burdlow, fell from the deck of the Wabash Packet, Kate Sarchet, near 
                        Granville
                    , yesterday and was drowned. Every effort possible was made by the officers of the boat
                    to rescue him, but without avail. He was on his way to 
                        Vincennes
                    . He has relatives in this vicinity."41
            
            Steamboat races, a popular sport on the large rivers with crew, passengers, and observers, often took
                    place on the Wabash as well. A race between the "Return" and the "Aurilla
                        
                  
                     38
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, December 4, 1849, March 4, 1851.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., March 28, 1850, February 20, 1851; Lytle, Merchant
                                Steam Vessels of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 95.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, May 19, 1853.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., January 27, 1859.
               
                     Wood" was described in a newspaper. "[The Return] left this morning in company with the Aurilla Wood, it
                    having been agreed between the officers of the two boats, we understand, to try the running
                    qualities of their respective crafts between this city and 
                        Terre Haute
                    . In turning around the Wood got the start of her competitor about
                    half a mile, and it was generally conceded by those on the wharf that she would increase the
                    distance to three or four miles before reaching 
                        Attica
                    . Who says 
                        Lafayette
                     is not a great place, and the Wabash a great river, when we have steamboat races two or
                    three times a week."42
            
            Today the Wabash River leads a quiet life. A glance at two maps of Indiana published ten years apart
                    shows at once why the river became quiet and the canal slowly passed away. A map of the state in
                    1846-47 shows but one railroad running through the sparsely-settled territory from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . A map of 1856-57 shows five railroads crossing the state from east to west, and four
                    from north to south.43 The steam engine, which brought to the rivers a
                    conveyance of great worth, brought later to the western country a vehicle of greater use and
                    importance: the "iron horse."
            
               
                  42
                        Ibid., March 31, 1856.
               
                  43
                        Memorial of the Holders of Certificates of Stock of the Wabash and 
                                Erie
                             Canal of the State of Indiana, presented to the General Assembly of the State
                            of Indiana, March 6, 1857 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1857).
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            The Hoosier Huckster
            John Frank Turner∗
            I am a native of 
                        Putnam
                     County, Indiana, where I spent my childhood and early youth on a small farm near the
                    old village of Fincastle, located twelve miles north of 
                        Greencastle
                    , the home of DePauw University. I do not know positively how the village of Fincastle
                    received its name, but believe the name was given by some of the early settlers of that region who
                    had come by covered wagon about 1820 from the vicinity of Fincastle, 
                        Virginia
                    , a few miles north of 
                        Roanoke
                    . The west central part of Indiana is still dotted with many such inland villages, which
                    in my boyhood were important trading centers for the communities in which they are located.
            The villages usually included a post office to which the mail was carried by "star"
                    route from the nearest railroad station, which in our case was Raccoon Station, about three miles
                    north of Fincastle on what was then the 
                  Indianapolis, Decatur
               , and 
                        Springfield
                     Railroad and is now known as the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Springfield
                     line of the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     system. The station was named by its location near Big Raccoon Creek which flows
                    nearby. The post office in these inland villages was usually located in the corner of the general
                    store, with the merchant holding the title of postmaster. His pay was based on the amount of stamp
                    cancellations, which rarely averaged more than a few cents per day; but potential customers were
                    brought into his store to call for mail or to mail their letters.
            These village stores were so "general" that they carried stocks of staple goods
                    which included groceries, dry goods, work clothing for men, boots and shoes, notions, and shelf
                    hardware. They also provided a market for poultry, eggs, and butter from the surrounding farms,
                    which small produce was brought in and exchanged at market price for its value in merchandise.
            Some of these country stores operated over established routes in the surrounding country what were
                    commonly called peddler wagons or huckster wagons. The wagons made trips over each route on regular
                    days every two weeks, or in 
                  
                     ∗ Mr. Turner lives in Tuscola, 
                                Illinois
                            . His reminiscences were submitted for publication by his son, Fred H. Turner,
                            Dean of Students, University of 
                                Illinois
                            .
               
                     some cases every week, as was thought profitable. It was in such
                    a store that I had my first business experience.
            The store at Fincastle in my earliest recollection was operated by Robert L. Bridges, who was the
                    largest landowner in the community and who "kept store" while his four sons did
                    the farming. When I was a small boy Mr. Bridges sold an interest in his store to Thomas L. Grider
                    who was his nephew. Mr. Grider had grown up in the community. After he had become familiar with the
                    business as a partnership affair he bought the entire interest of his uncle in the store, making it
                    an individual business.
            The Grider family were near-neighbors of our family and when I was about ten years of age Thomas
                    married my oldest sister, Carrie, who was then nineteen years of age.
            The little store at Fincastle under the management of Mr. Grider had prospered, and in the summer of
                    1890, when I had reached the age of nineteen and had previously received a
                    "degree" of eighth grade from the country school, Mr. Grider decided to add a
                    peddler wagon to his business. He asked me to become a member of his force, driving the wagon a part
                    of the time, selling merchandise from the wagon which for the most part was in exchange for country
                    produce which the customers had for sale.
            But this road outfit of Mr. Grider's was no homemade or ramshackle affair, as were many of
                    those which were being used over routes through the country. On the contrary, he made a drawing of
                    plans for a wagon to his liking and took it to an 
                        Indianapolis
                     firm which built a heavy spring wagon according to his own ideas. His wagon had a heavy
                    canvas top on stationary bows, with roll curtains on both sides and at the rear so that it could be
                    closed up in bad weather.
            To accommodate the merchandise to be hauled in the wagon there were two movable boxes the full width
                    of the bed, which was about twelve inches deep. One of the boxes for the rear of the wagon had
                    shelves for accommodating yard goods and this box was well filled with calicoes, ginghams, outing
                    flannels, muslins, and such other goods of that nature as were kept in the store. This box was
                    closed by a door at the, rear, hinged at the bottom, and with a "leg" hinged onto
                    the door, so that the door when opened downward formed a counter on which the dry goods could be
                    pulled out for examination by the customer.
            The other box, of flat dimensions, occupied the space in the wagon in front of the rear box and
                    extended up to the  driver's seat in front, providing
                    considerable room on top of the box for egg cases, brooms, tin ware, and other
                    light bulky stuff. On one side of this box were drawers stocked with small notions of all kinds,
                    while on the other side of the box and wagon were small doors opening into bins for groceries of a
                    staple nature. Swung under the rear axle of the wagon was a coop for hauling poultry purchased on
                    the trips.
            As motive power for this small traveling store, Mr. Grider purchased a team of two good horses which
                    was fitted with a nice set of expensive harness, so that when ready to go on the road we had a fine
                    and substantial outfit.
            At that time only a small amount of the groceries received by retailers were in packages as they are
                    today. Sugar was shipped by the wholesalers in wood barrels with a capacity of approximately three
                    hundred pounds. Rice came in one hundred-pound bags as did "green" coffee, but
                    there was beginning to be some roasted coffee shipped in one-pound packages, with one hundred
                    packages to the case, with "Arbuckles" being the favorite brand. Spices of all
                    kinds also came in bulk to the stores, to be weighed out according to the wishes of the customer as
                    to amount. So there was always a big job on Saturday in the store of weighing up and packaging
                    groceries for the wagon's two-day trip starting on Monday morning. We used paper bags,
                    putting up sugar in fifty-cent packages, which at the average price then meant ten to twelve pounds.
                    Spices and smaller groceries were put up in ten-cent packages or in amounts usually called for in
                    the store.
            A few years previous to the time I went into Mr. Grider's store there had broken out in
                    west-central Indiana a rash of building gravel roads and also of purchasing by the counties, through
                    taxation of adjacent landowners, many sections of gravelled highways, which had been constructed and
                    operated as toll roads by stock companies. These gravelled roads at that time were tops in the way
                    of all-year-'round highways. There are still to be seen some of the old tollgate houses for
                    the toll roads now occupied as homes along those routes. In mapping out trips for our wagon we made
                    an effort to follow the gravelled roads so far as possible; but that idea was not practical in all
                    cases and there were times during the winter and early spring weeks when it was necessary to hire an
                    extra team and driver, using four horses on the longer trips in order to drag the wagon through the
                    mud on sections of unimproved roads.
            As before stated, each Monday morning brought the  beginning of a
                    two-day trip for the wagon; Mr. Grider made the initial trip on each of these, taking me with him
                    over roads and into territory with which I was entirely unfamiliar. As these trips were to be a part
                    of my duties I carried a memorandum and made careful notations as to every turn in the roads, the
                    location of every house at which I was to stop, the name of the occupants, and whether there was a
                    bad dog, so I had no trouble in locating our customers when I made the next trip alone.
            On one of these Monday trips I left Fincastle, traveling south and west alternately until by noon I
                    had reached the home of the Samuel Rambos, which was a short distance west and south of Morton,
                    another inland village, and which was my dinner stop for myself and horses. Continuing south and
                    west, by evening I would reach the home of a family by name of Roach, a short distance south of
                    Hollandsburg in 
                        Parke County
                    , which was my overnight stop. The Roaches, being good farming people, could always
                    furnish good accommodations for our horses as well as ourselves and I think were as fine an example
                    of the really happy family as I have ever seen. The owners of the farm, James Roach, who was married
                    and had a family of three boys and three girls, ranging in age from about eight years of age to
                    grown-up young people, and his brother Thomas, who was a single man living in the same house, were
                    both sons of the "Old Sod." Their land and farming equipment and live stock, I was
                    told, were all held in partnership by the two brothers. A few years previous to my acquaintance of
                    the family they had built a new house adjacent to the old house in which they had resided; but they
                    had left the old house standing, using it as the place for cooking and serving the family meals and
                    maybe also for sleeping quarters for extra work hands when necessary.
            The living room in the newer house was heated by a wood-burning fireplace and in cold weather the
                    family gathered there along with any visitors after the evening meal was over. It was the practice
                    of the two Roach brothers, James and Thomas, to place their chairs at one side of the fireplace, as
                    near to each other as possible, and carry on a conversation about their work and affairs in general
                    as earnestly as if they had not been together for months. Both had a definite Irish brogue and an
                    abundant supply of the native wit of their old homeland which often brought forth quaint sayings by
                    them.
            The younger Roaches were bright and quick to notice the  amusing
                    points in the conversation of their father and uncle; it was a common thing to see one of the
                    children pass a wink to the others and then all would burst out with peals of laughter which the
                    older ones did not appear to notice. If the logs in the fireplace appeared to be burning low James
                    would say to one of the boys, "Billy, hadn ye better get another sthick?"
                    Whereupon, Billy, as the obedient son, would immediately step out on the front porch and bring the
                    "sthick" of hickory or oak from the supply that was regularly kept there and place
                    it on the andirons.
            On one occasion when I was expected at the Roach home for the night the young folks of the family had
                    invited a group of the young people of the neighborhood, including a "fiddler," to
                    come in for an evening of square dancing on the floor of the old house, which was always spotlessly
                    clean but entirely devoid of carpets or rugs. But I had been brought up by parents who were members
                    of a village church of the sect which called themselves Campbellites and they had a very honest and
                    sincere conviction that people who indulged in dancing were just traveling a few steps on the march
                    to eternal perdition. In deference to their wishes and belief I had never learned to trip the light
                    fantastic and so was compelled to pose as a wallflower while the others danced; but through all of
                    the sixty years that have passed since that time I have had a feeling of regret that I could not
                    qualify to "Salute your partner! Circle four! Swing your partner! Promenade!" with
                    those 
                        Parke County
                     belles, while John Roach called the figures.
            Following the night's rest and with breakfast over, horses fed, curried, harnessed and
                    hitched to the wagon, the women came out to the wagon, bringing their produce, to do their trading.
                    When they had finished we were off for the start of the second day on that route, which extended a
                    few miles farther to the west and south, until we were at the top of a steep hill where we could
                    overlook the village of Ferndale in the valley and where we turned back toward the home store via
                    different roads than those on which we had come out.
            Working north and east the dinner stop was sometimes made at the home of Daniel Shonkwiler and at
                    other times at the home of a family by name of Scott, depending on the time we were making. In the
                    afternoon we reached a point on what we then called the 
                        Rockville
                     and 
                        Danville
                        Pike
                    , a gravel-surfaced road which has since been paved and is now a section of U.S. Route
                    36 through that part of Indiana.  Following that road east we
                    came to the intersection of the 
                        Greencastle
                     and 
                        Crawfordsville
                        Pike
                    , another gravel-surfaced road that has since been paved and is a section of Indiana
                    Route 43. Both of these graveled roads were originally constructed and operated as toll roads and
                    their intersection was known for miles in all directions as the Double Toll Gate, from the fact that
                    a single toll house collected tolls from travelers on both roads. Both of these pikes were among
                    those which were purchased by the counties' and had been converted into free gravel roads.
                    The intersection was called Hannah's Crossing, as the large farm of George Hannah, who was
                    a member of the state legislature, was on the northeast corner of the intersection.
            About four miles north of this intersection, we reached the home store at Fincastle with a much
                    lighter load of merchandise but a rather heavy load of poultry, eggs, and butter.
            Just before reaching Fincastle via this route we crossed Ramp Creek over the old two-way covered
                    bridge, which has since been moved to 
                        Brown
                     County Indiana State Park, where it now stands as one of the entrances and a relic of
                    the covered bridge days. This old bridge carries a special interest for me; my father, the late John
                    A. Turner, who was born in 1838 and spent the entire ninety-seven years of his life as a citizen of 
                        Putnam
                     County, told me that his father, G#2 P. Turner, one of the early settlers of that
                    county, hauled with ox teams, from the quarry to the site of the bridge, the huge stones with which
                    the abutments to the Ramp Creek Bridge were built. I am not sure where the quarry was located but
                    believe it was an outcropping ledge of limestone from a bluff on what I knew as the William Hartman
                    farm, about one mile down the stream from the bridge. The new paved route crosses Ramp Creek a few
                    rods below where the old covered bridge stood, but the stone abutments on which each end of the
                    bridge rested stand apparently as firm as when they were built.
            Another two-day route for Monday and Tuesday of the alternate weeks was established, on which we
                    started directly west from Fincastle and worked west and north, went over into 
                        Parke County
                    , and finally reached an overnight stop with a family by the name of McCutcheon, also a
                    rather large family, who lived in a comparatively new, large two-story frame house. I distinctly
                    remember a circumstance which happened to me there.
            It was late in the autumn when the daylight hours were short and came late in the morning. After the
                    evening meal  we sat in the living room, visiting and munching
                    freshly-picked apples from the large orchard at the rear of the house, until time to retire for the
                    night. I was assigned to a room upstairs and given a kerosene lamp and as usual after being on the
                    road all day was soon soundly asleep and did not awaken until someone pounded on my door and
                    announced breakfast. When I arose in the pitchy darkness I found the lamp had been taken away;
                    finally, groping around, I succeeded in getting myself dressed. Then when I tried to find my way out
                    of the room it appeared as if the walls were all doors; after opening the first one I found myself
                    in what appeared in the darkness to be a clothes closet. But I kept trying, and after opening two or
                    three more doors I found the one that opened out into the hallway; there I could see a light shining
                    in from another room below, and I made my way down.
            That route proved to be unprofitable from the fact that there were too many long stretches of road
                    with no potential customers residing along them; we soon changed it so that we reached the village
                    of Brownsvalley, over in the edge of Montgomery County, where the overnight stop was made at the
                    home of one of my uncles, Winfield S. Goslin, who was a brother of my mother; and so we combined
                    business with a very pleasant bi-weekly visit.
            We also established wagon routes nearer home for days and parts of days other than Monday, Tuesday,
                    and Saturday. Mr. Grider, the owner of the business, frequently drove over one of the routes
                    himself, by way of getting out of the store for a short time and meeting people. These shorter
                    routes were for the most part among what we called "home people," who were regular
                    customers at the store but who very much preferred to have their farm produce called for at their
                    door to taking it to the village store themselves.
            I especially remember one of these short-route customers by name of George Hartman, who was a retired
                    farmer and house carpenter. "Uncle George," as he was familiarly known in the
                    community, was a 
                        German
                    , stocky of build, with a wide, square-trimmed beard, twinkling eyes, a keen sense of
                    humor, and a disposition which enabled him to enjoy a joke which was poked at himself as much as one
                    that was the other way around, for he always had a "comeback" ready. One afternoon
                    I had stopped the wagon at his gate and he was sauntering leisurely out toward the wagon, a basket
                    of eggs on his arm, when one of his neighbors drove by in a farm wagon and yelled at him in a joking
                    way, "Getting hard up, Hey, and had  to sell your
                    eggs?" Without hesitation the answer came, "O, yes, yes, the old hen sot on
                    'em all summer and they wouldn't hatch, so I thought I'd yust as well
                    sell 'em."
            This fine old gentleman traded with us on a book account basis system, sometimes having more produce
                    than the value of his purchases and at other times the balance would be the other way. When there
                    were book entries to be made, his stock remark, with a chuckle, was invariably, "An honest
                    man don't care if you watch 'im, and a tamdt rascal needs watchun, so
                    I'll yust look on," and he would stand near and "look
                    on"—a good philosophy and good business practice.
            Prices that we were able to pay for the farm produce in those days were very low as compared with the
                    present time. As I remember, the average price paid for live chickens was about five cents, and six
                    or seven cents was a top price. Fifteen cents per dozen for eggs to the producer was about the
                    average with the top price in the winter season, when they were scarce, around twenty-five cents and
                    the low price in the spring laying season sometimes dropping as low as eight and one-third cents per
                    dozen.
            We carried large tin cans of fifty-pound capacity, commonly called lard cans, in the upper part of
                    the wagon in which butter was taken in. "Butter was butter"—all of one
                    grade, so the country producers thought, and there was no way to classify the good from the
                    inferior, with the price per pound ranging from ten to twenty cents paid to the makers, depending on
                    the demand from shippers. Incidentally, I lost all appetite for butter and did not care for it for a
                    period of several years following my huckster experience.
            Adjacent to the store we had a chicken house in which poultry brought in was accumulated and fed
                    until the flock was disposed of. The cases of eggs and cans of butter were stored in a wareroom of
                    the store until converted into cash.
            There were some wholesale buyers and shippers of produce who sent their wagons through the country to
                    pick up the produce at the village stores, for which they paid cash; but if they did not visit us
                    before we had enough for a wagonload, a wagon was sent either to 
                        Greencastle
                     or 
                        Crawfordsville
                     where the old-time Arthur 
                        Jordan
                     firm of 
                        Indianapolis
                     had branch houses. Havens Brothers of 
                        Ladoga
                    , Indiana, was one of the firms that made regular collection trips through the country
                    and shipped to central markets in carload lots.
            In addition to the stock of goods carried on the huckster wagon, it was our custom to take orders
                    from patrons for  many things which were too bulky to haul
                    regularly and which were to be delivered on the next trip or on a special trip. I recall very
                    distinctly that on one of the Monday trips when I found a large number of the women doing their
                    family washings by hand, I took orders for three washing machines of the hand-operated, rocker
                    pattern. In the fruit-canning season I took orders for enough crates of tin fruit cans to make a
                    bulky but light load to be delivered the following Saturday. Just prior to the small grain
                    harvesting season, with the "self binder" the newest thing in the way of
                    harvesting machinery, it was an easy matter to take orders from farmers on the routes for enough
                    binder twine to make a load for special trip delivery or to be called for by the farmers. It was not
                    unusual for a farmer with a large family, or one who kept extra farm hands with a good capacity for
                    food consumption, to order a three hundred-pound barrel of sugar, usually to be called for by the
                    purchaser unless we were making special trip deliveries of items in his territory.
            On the wagon route we found the counterpart of the present-day window-shoppers who wanted to see
                    everything on the wagon and bought little. There were places where there were two or three grown-up
                    young women in, addition to the mother and they would all come out separately, one after the other,
                    to take a look. But it was all in the day's business and sometimes a little patience with
                    such customers resulted in a good sale even though it caused us to be late for the dinner or
                    overnight stop.
            In retrospect I can see the poultry and egg business as being in its infancy at that time as compared
                    with the present time, for it has certainly grown up. Where members of a farm family came out to my
                    wagon with a market basket or a three-gallon milk bucket filled with eggs when I stopped at their
                    front gate, I now see farmers coming into town with cases of thirty-six dozen or more eggs in their
                    pickup trucks or the baggage compartments of their automobiles. If a family had a dozen or more
                    chickens cooped up for sale at the time of my visit that was considered a rather good sale of
                    poultry; but now it is a common occurrence for a farmer to telephone a poultry dealer to come out to
                    his place and pick up a hundred or more young "fries" or non-laying hens that have
                    been culled from his flock. If a farm woman had succeeded in foiling the weasels, minks, foxes, and
                    weather, and raised a flock of fifteen or twenty young turkeys in a season and had them ready for
                    market at Thanksgiving time or Christmas, we  would make a
                    special trip to get them at a price of ten to fifteen cents per pound on foot; but now we have
                    special turkey farms, where flocks of the young toms are numbered in thousands, and brought up from
                    the poults with equipment and special feeds that represent a large investment.
            As for home butter-making, that seems to be practically a thing of the past. We had as customers a
                    good number of farm women who took great pride in their skill at making butter, which was of a
                    lovely yellow color and made up in one-pound prints, which always weighed out in full or frequently
                    would overweigh. Now, as a rule, the farmer who is not in the special dairy business, and who keeps
                    more than enough milk cows to supply the family needs for milk and cream, runs the fresh milk
                    through a mechanical cream separator and brings the butterfat in large cans to a cream station in
                    town. There a shipper pays him in cash more per pound for the cream than the farmer could get for
                    the butter he could make by hand from the same amount of cream. Most of the farmers then buy
                    creamery-made butter or oleomargarine for their own use, thus relieving the farm housewife of the
                    labor and mess connected with home butter-making.
            As cashier in a bank in an 
                        Illinois
                     county seat town during the depression days of the thirties, I took notice that most of
                    the farmers who came to town on Saturdays with a basket of eggs and a can of cream, for which they
                    received sufficient returns to pay for their groceries and maybe a few other necessary living
                    expenses, were the only ones who pulled through the depression; while a good many of those who
                    seemed to think "poultry, eggs, and butter" were matters too small for their
                    consideration, even lost their farms.
            Improved highways and motor transportation have practically eliminated the small rural trading
                    centers as such, along with the hucksters traveling out from those places. In my huckstering days
                    the twelve miles to 
                        Greencastle
                     or the sixteen miles to 
                        Crawfordsville
                     by horse and buggy, or if necessary by farm wagon and team, meant getting an early
                    start and getting back home after night, especially if there was much business to be transacted or a
                    load to be hauled either way. Under present conditions the people of the same community are only
                    thirty minutes away from either of these county seat towns and it is a common practice, except in
                    the busy farming seasons, for them to motor to either place after the day's work is done,
                    attend a movie, and be back home by their usual bedtime—all of which
                    sums up to: Times do change.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Robert M. LaFollette. By Belle Case LaFollette and Fola LaFollette. (
                        New York
                    : Macmillan, 1953, two volumes, pp. xx, 1305. Illustrations and index.
                    $15.00.)
            No honest history of the 
                        United States
                     of the last sixty years can be written in which Robert M. LaFollette will not have a
                    conspicuous place. Brilliant, eloquent, dynamic, dramatic, tireless, courageous, and incorruptible,
                    even by ambition, he early became a symbol of militant democracy in his never-ceasing war on
                    privilege and corruption, and his self-sacrificing devotion to the rights of the common man. He had
                    to pay the penalty of his audacity, as all crusaders must, in the venomous hatred of powerful forces
                    strongly entrenched behind their money bags. For years, he and Bryan were assailed as irresponsible
                    demagogues for sponsoring and urging measures that were finally accepted, and largely because of the
                    fight they made to awaken the average citizen to a realization of his rights and stake in
                    government.
            The long-awaited biography of this picturesque crusader by his wife and daughter has finally appeared
                    in two attractive volumes. The authors were eminently qualified for the task because of their
                    intimate association with LaFollette and their complete sympathy with his ideas, ideals, and
                    methods. They have painted a vivid portrait that almost literally breathes. Here we have his
                    struggles against corruption and privilege described graphically and dramatically in detail. More
                    than that, we are given his intellectual and emotional reactions in the midst of his Homeric
                    battles. Thus, after he has experienced a combat in the Senate, we are permitted to sit at his
                    hearth in the midst of his family listening to his inmost thoughts on the events, measures, and men
                    involved. Brandeis, Pinchot, and liberals of that calibre drop in to talk things over and we hear
                    the conversation. The book is in this sense unique. It has the intimacy of a secret diary or a book
                    of frank memoirs, and yet it is written with a scrupulous fidelity to the record. No one can lay the
                    book aside without feeling that he has been behind the scenes of dramatic and historic events, or
                    without a realization that he has been in the company of a very great liberal, democrat, and
                    statesman.
            During his brief period in the House of Representatives, LaFollette began to learn something of the
                    devious ways of  exploitation by the privileged. The railroad
                    lobby began to doubt the young man who insisted on governmental regulation and the limiting of
                    transportation costs to reasonable profits on the actual investment. The reactionary Senator
                    Philetus Sawyer, of his own state, was annoyed when the new congressman refused to support a plan of
                    turning over public lands to the railroads for speculation. He opposed a ship subsidy bill and the
                    Old Guard lifted its eyebrows. But on the tariff, at this period, he was decidedly a regular. He
                    made the principal speech against the Mills bill for tariff reform, and he supported the McKinley
                    bill which resulted in his defeat in the popular protest that followed.
            The real LaFollette emerges during his retirement when he broke dramatically with the old line party
                    bosses in 
                        Wisconsin
                    . It had long been the custom for state treasurers to loan on interest the public money
                    they had deposited in the banks and to pocket the profit. A Democratic administration had brought
                    proceedings to force the restitution of the pilfered money. Since this involved the bondsmen as well
                    as the official, Senator Sawyer, who had been a bondsman for numerous officials, was threatened with
                    the loss of $300,000. The case was scheduled for the court presided over by
                    LaFollette's brother-in-law. When Sawyer crudely offered LaFollette a perfumed bribe to
                    influence his relative and was indignantly rebuked, he offered a retainer which was| also refused.
                    Disregarding the warning of his friends that a public exposure and denunciation would alienate the
                    powerful party machine, LaFollette dramatized the exposure and denunciation and denounced the
                    bosses. It was then that the LaFollette of history threw down the glove at the feet of Privilege.
            His selection as governor of 
                        Wisconsin
                     for three terms and the war he waged on corruption and for the regulation of railroads
                    and the reforms he wrought are described in detail. It was during his tenure as governor that he
                    took his case before the plain people on the Chautauqua circuit. In powerful, plain-spoken speeches
                    he awakened the long-slumbering people to their power and stake in government. "Bob
                    believed," say his biographers, "that his Chautauqua lectures were his most
                    practically effective work for the progressive movement."
            When elected to the Senate his great national service began. From the beginning he was a thorn in the
                    side of the reactionaries among his colleagues. When he exposed the  hidden jokers in legislation in speeches beyond refutation, their
                    hatred became fantastic. They filed like pouting school boys from the chamber when he rose to speak.
                    He broke definitely with his party in a devastating speech against the Aldrich-Vreeland currency
                    bill. When he was filibustering to defeat it, some ptomaine was slipped into his glass of milk and
                    egg, and had he not detected the poison with the first sip it would have ended his career.
            Thence, throughout his career, he followed his own line. He never depended on the decision of a party
                    caucus to determine the dictates of his conscience. His speeches, factually sound, were veritable
                    treatises. He could be attacked on these speeches but seldom could he be refuted. A goodly part of
                    the metropolitan press assailed the speaker and ignored the speech. But he had so dramatized his
                    fight that he became the acknowledged leader of the progressives.
            With the organization of the National Progressive Republican League came the movement for his
                    nomination for President in 1912. The story of Theodore Roosevelt's ardent flirtation with
                    the League, his pretended sympathy with the LaFollette candidacy, the manner in which he used it
                    under cover to pave the way to his own nomination, the treachery of some of LaFollette's
                    friends, is told in detail. It is a rather shabby tale.
            The pitiful story of LaFollette's breakdown in 
                        Philadelphia
                     was used ruthlessly to end his candidacy. Utterly exhausted nervously by incessant
                    campaigning, worried to distraction by the knowledge that his daughter was going under the knife in
                    a serious operation, and facing an audience clearly hostile, he lost the thread of his speech and
                    launched into an intemperate attack upon the press. Woodrow Wilson, who admired him, sat sad-faced
                    with the realization that LaFollette was momentarily abnormal. Though LaFollette speedily recovered
                    and resumed campaigning, the announcement of Roosevelt's candidacy blighted his prospects.
                    This story is told in detail. The biographers do not defend his action, but they explain it.
            He respected Wilson and for a time was his valuable collaborator. He voted for the Underwood Tariff
                    which his fellow partisans thought treasonable. He applauded and supported Wilson's
                    declaration that American marines would no longer be employed as debt collectors in Central America
                    and  that our interference in the internal affairs of South
                    American republics would end. He supported Wilson's Mexican policy up to a point.
            Then came the World War. Like Bryan, a man of equal courage and conscience, he hated war. Like Bryan,
                    he thought the arming of merchant vessels and the refusal to warn Americans against traveling on the
                    ships of warring nations carrying munitions made our involvement inevitable. He opposed the
                    declaration of war. War hysteria had swept over the country. Whatever may be said of his attitude,
                    it was honest and supremely courageous. The hue and cry raised against him was not honest. When
                    newspapers, and even the Associated Press, twisted what he said in 
                        St. Paul
                     into something he did not say, the crusade against him went beyond decent limits. He
                    was quoted as saying that we had "no grievance" against 
                        Germany
                     when he actually had said the opposite. The press roared against the
                    "traitor," and plans were made for his expulsion from the Senate. The beginning of
                    libel suits brought speedy retractions. The Associated Press apologized. A little later, Rollin
                    Kirby, whose fierce cartoon did infinite harm, wrote to express his admiration for a man who had
                    made "a brave fight against an overwhelming tide of chauvinism and war hysteria."
            One notes with mixed feelings the reason the expulsion plan was dropped—his vote was
                    needed against the League of Nations. But the biographer's detailed intimate account of the
                    attempt to stamp LaFollette as a "traitor" is one of the highlights of a
                    fascinating and provocative book. It is a book Americans may well meditate upon in our own day when
                    liberals are suspected and hysteria is making a mockery of the American way of life.
            
               
                        
                            New York City
                        
                     Claude G. Bowers
         
         
            
               Letters of Sherwood Anderson. Selected and edited with an introduction and notes
                    by Howard Mumford Jones, in association with Walter Rideout. (
                        Boston
                    : Little, 
                        Brown
                    , and Company, 1953, pp. xxv, 479. Illustrations and index. $6.00.)
            Professors Jones and Rideout have done a service for American literature in culling from the
                    correspondence of  a prolific letter-writer some four hundred
                    variously interesting communications by the Midwestern author whose Winesburg, 
                            Ohio
                        
                touched off something of a literary revolution when it appeared in 1939. One
                    value of this selection is that it helps make clear what the revolution was about. In 1916 Anderson
                    described Winesburg to an editor in these words: "I made last year a
                    series of intensive studies of my home town, Clyde, 
                        Ohio
                     …. Some of the studies you may think pretty raw, and there is a sad note
                    running through them. One or two of them get pretty closely down to ugly things of life. However, I
                    put a good deal into the writing of them."
            For his pains and honesty Anderson was assailed by genteel critics, who were shocked by what was then
                    a startling candor about sex, and by formal critics, who objected to Anderson's
                    experimental techniques and failed to perceive that his deeper purposes had overridden the bounds of
                    the conventional short story with a neat plot and surprise ending. In numerous letters Anderson
                    firmly laid down his principles. "I can accept no standard I have ever seen as to
                    form," he wrote a friend. "What I want most is to be and remain always an
                    experimenter, an adventurer." The form was simply content, and for Anderson, at least in
                    his earlier writing, the content was essentially feeling.
            For this concept Anderson was indebted to the great Russian writers. He discovered Tolstoy,
                    Dostoevski, Turgenev, and Chekhov: "A door opened. I saw that the art of prose writing
                    might spring into life directly out of an impulse of sympathy and understanding with the man beside
                    you." There was in Anderson himself this Russian—and perhaps also
                    Midwestern—ability to lose one's identity in a curious sense of communion with
                    others. "On a recent day … when I walked in the streets, this actual physical
                    feeling of being completely en rapport with every man, woman, and child along a
                    street wherein I walked became so intense that I had to go hide myself, to rest a little."
                    It was natural, then, for Anderson's literary subjects to be the underdog, the sexually
                    frustrated or twisted, the Negro, the poor white, the mill girl. "Really," he
                    wrote, "if I belong to anything, I do belong to the defeated people."
            Despite his instinctive sympathies for groups of people, Anderson remained essentially an
                    individualist. At the same  time he was sharply aware of the
                    danger of extreme individualism, absorption in one's own ego. In perhaps a score of letters
                    appears some such statement as this: "As for the end, I have often thought that when it
                    comes, there will be a kind of real comfort in the fact that self will go then. There is some kind
                    of universal thing we will pass into that will in any event give us escape from the disease of
                    self." This "universal thing," about whose prime importance Anderson was
                    so insistent, was simply love: "I believe … that it is this universal thing,
                    scattered about in many people … the thing called love that we have to keep on trying to
                    tap."
            That this religious impulse underlay, or was fused with, Anderson's creative drive is made
                    evident in a number of letters, and notably in this passage: "I have been to 
                        Nebraska
                    , where the big engines are tearing the hills to pieces; over the low hills runs the
                    promise of the corn. You wait, dear Brother; I shall bring God home to the sweaty men in the corn
                    rows. My songs shall creep into their hearts and teach them the sacredness of the long aisles of
                    growing things that lead to the throne of God." There is more than a suggestion here of
                    literary messiahship, but the distastefulness of it is lessened by Anderson's genuine
                    dedication to his art. There are frequent complaints about his financial difficulties as a writer,
                    but he never seriously considered returning to the business world once he had finally left it. In
                    his art he had found a new way of life, hard but uniquely rewarding. "There is and can be
                    no moral balance like the long difficulty of an art," he wrote, later asserting that art is
                    "the only way of life." Yet art did not bring happiness: "It is at the
                    same time the most terrible way of life."
            Art did, however, provide an avenue of escape from the disease of self, for in it lay the possibility
                    of an impersonal love. At times, in the act of literary creation, Anderson seems to have experienced
                    a kind of mystic liberation. "I think that all of the more beautiful and clear, the more
                    plangent and radiant writing I have done, has all been done by a kind of secondary personality that
                    at such times takes possession of me." He described one such experience thus: "I
                    have begun working again and yesterday, for the 1st time in months, sat at my desk, here in this
                    little country hotel, for hours with no consciousness of time passing, completely lost, the words
                    and sentences with a fine rhy[th]mic flow, ideas coming like 
                    flights of birds, for the time, at least, completely happy. No. Happiness is not the word. To be
                    happy there must be consciousness of self as happy, and in this state there is no self."
            Thus, much of the interest of the letters lies in these revelations of Anderson's creative
                    psychology, his motives, and his values. But many of his literary stimuli came from the outside, and
                    it is as a conscious Midwesterner that he must be seen in order to be fully understood. His attitude
                    towards the Midwest was ambivalent; he was constantly drawn to its people and the fertile beauty of
                    its land, and at the same time was painfully aware of its rawness and spiritual and cultural
                    aridity. He attributed the latter in part to historical causes: the "enervating looseness
                    of thinking that was here in 
                        Lincoln
                    's time is still with us, but is made more intense and vulgar by the coming of
                    industrialism." Yet Anderson could be susceptible to Midwestern chauvinism: "I
                    live in a wide valley of cornfields and men and towns and strange, jangling sounds, and in spite of
                    the curious perversion of life here, I have a feeling that the great basin of the 
                        Mississippi
                     River, where I have always lived and moved about, is one day to be the seat of the
                    culture of the universe." On another occasion, however, Anderson confessed that the idea of
                    escape from the Midwest was always in the back of his mind; "in my inner self I have
                    accepted my own Mid-America as a walled-in place." At other times he seemed merely
                    reconciled to remaining where his roots were: "Mid-America is my land. Good or bad,
                    it's all I'll ever have."
            Anderson's intimate if uneasy relationship with the region which provided him with most of
                    his literary themes also gave him insights into the minds of other Midwesterners: 
                        Lincoln
                     with his "trenchant sadness," Twain with his "rather
                    childlike pessimis[m]," Dreiser with his unyielding hatred of Puritanism. The link was
                    Anderson's sharing of what he regarded as the common experience of Midwestern barrenness
                    and sense of futility. The stultifying quality of the culture was such that Anderson feared that he
                    would inevitably be forced into "some grotesque sectional attitude and spend myself
                    uselessly on that."
            That he did not ultimately do so was perhaps due in part to fructifying qualities in the Midwestern
                    culture and character. Despite his often-expressed weariness of spirit, Anderson could never for
                    long withdraw from his society, as a  New Englander might, or
                    gain from it a festering sense of tragedy, as a Southerner might. The literary consequences of the
                    reaction were not consistently important—his enduring work may be only Winesburg, parts of his novels, and a few memorable short stories, such as "Death
                    in the Woods" and "The Triumph of the Egg"—but the epistolary
                    record of it is fascinating as Anderson sets down his responses to two and a half tumultuous
                    decades, from 1916 to 1940. His letters reflect the shifting interests of the time, as does his
                    writing, and his sensitive reactions to them often provide a commentary on the latter. And since
                    Anderson knew and wrote to practically everyone of importance in the arts during this period, the
                    record is a full one. Thus as Winesburg reflects the shattering of nineteenth
                    century sexual taboos, so do Anderson's letters reveal him grappling with the same problem,
                    protesting, for example, Van Wyck Brooks' labeling him "a phallic
                    Chekhov." Anderson has captured the modern attitude to the point where he can write
                    candidly—both in his fiction and his letters—about sex; at the same time some
                    prudishness clings to him, so that occasionally he sniggers at it or is self-conscious about his
                    advanced attitude.
            By 1930 Anderson felt that his interest in sex as a literary theme had faded, to be replaced by
                    industrialism. From 
                        Georgia
                     he noted: "The Southern towns are full of little mill girls, living in mill
                    villages in the shadow of cotton mills." He had already explored the South in his novels
                        Poor White and Dark Laughter. He never channeled his concern
                    with the effect of the machine on the human being into literary expression, but Perhaps
                        Women, a long essay, was the outcome of his interest, and he never ceased to be aware that
                    the social and political tremors of the twenties and thirties might be the forerunners of
                    earth-shaking upheavals. It is indicative of his native shrewdness that, in a time when many
                    intellectuals were turning to communism as a desperate remedy for desperate ills, he saw the
                    movement for what it is. He believed that he had no political turn of mind, yet as early as 1931 he
                    was writing that communism was "probably a new sort of Puritanism, more dreadful than any
                    other sort because of having more power." But, though Anderson shied away from any
                    pseudo-scientific solution for social problems, with his quick concern always for human values he
                    did not lapse into despairing inaction; see, for example, his letter to President  Hoover protesting the treatment given the Bonus Army in 
                        Washington
                    , with its urgent questions going to the heart of the matter.
            In short, Anderson had courage—including the courage to admit his frequent lack of
                    it—and he had integrity and a great kindness. These letters reveal too his human
                    failings, his quirks, his frequent contradictions, his occasional coarseness, his moodiness, his
                    admitted immaturity, his delusions of literary grandeur. He was, in a word, himself; but without
                    pretending to unravel the complexities of character and culture, I would like to suggest again that
                    Anderson is best seen as a Midwestern writer fairly typical of his time and place, with many
                    resemblances to Sandburg, Dreiser, and Vachel Lindsay. There is the same lack of formal education,
                    the same combination of simplicity and shrewdness soaring at times to genius, the same readiness to
                    experiment, the same independence of mind, the same deep sense of responsibility. Back of all these
                    qualities lay, perhaps, a kind of latter-day Midwestern mysticism akin to 
                        Lincoln
                    's, the religious impulse shorn of dogma but nonetheless impressive in its
                    honesty, pure in its charity, and moving in its intensity.
            Thus these letters are interesting on half a dozen counts. They are, moreover, illuminated by Howard
                    Mumford Jones in an introduction which is a model of clarity, conciseness, and balanced judgment. A
                    chronology and notes, complete enough for the least informed reader, are also provided.
            
               Indiana University Parry E. Stroud
         
         
            
               Westward the Briton. By Robert G. Athearn. (
                        New York
                    : Charles Scribner's Sons, 1953, pp. xiv, 208. Illustrations, bibliography, and
                    index. $4.50.)
            This refreshing frontier social history of the Rocky Mountain area, centering in 
                        Denver
                    , is the result of an examination of the works of nearly three hundred British travelers
                    who visited America between the close of the Civil War and the end of the nineteenth century. Some
                    were mere travelers observing America through a Pullman window; others gave their attention to a
                    restricted subject such as hunting, stock-raising, or mining; but not a few came to stay and throw
                    in their fortunes with the growing West. Taken in the aggregate, their comments form an excellent
                    basis for a social history.
            
            In many ways the comments of the Englishmen were more penetrating and searching than those of the
                    Americans who visited the West. Allowing for a degree of national bias, the observations are fuller
                    and more accurate than could have been obtained otherwise.
            On the other hand, Britons were not unlike Americans in many ways. Economic interests influenced
                    their attitudes and comments. If a Briton settled in a town, he soon became as voluble in his
                    town-puffing and in defending the West as the Yankee. Indeed, the Briton who came to make America
                    his home became, with the years, often even more intolerant of the British critic than was the
                    American.
            The author discusses with humor and sparkle such topics as law and order, travel facilities, the
                    Indians, the cow country, manners and morals, speculation in mining stock and in cattle companies,
                    home life, democracy, equality, and city life in 
                        Denver
                     and Salt Lake City. His style is sprightly, and the material is handled in such a
                    skillful way that an interesting and accurate picture is given of the West of the post-Civil War
                    period.
            Probably a more accurately descriptive title for the volume, although not so practical, would have
                    been: a social history of the Rocky Mountain frontier as seen by the Briton.
            Athearn has tapped a great reservoir of material hithertofore untouched and has thus done a valuable
                    service for the historical profession. But he has done more than that; he has produced a
                    historically accurate and yet readable volume for the general reader.
            
               Union College Everett Dick
         
         
            
               The Army Air Forces in World War II. Edited by Wesley Frank Craven and James Lea
                    Cate. Volume V, The Pacific: Matterhorn to Nagasaki, June 1944 to August 1945. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1953, pp. xxxvii, 878. Illustrations, maps, and index. $8.50.)
            This is the fifth of the seven-volume series of the official chronicle of the army air forces in the
                    second World War. It is the second volume to appear on the Pacific and 
                        China
                    -
                        Burma
                    -
                        India
                     theaters and the last concerned with combat operations of the war itself. The story of
                    Pacific and CBI  operations from Pearl Harbor to the capture of
                    the Marianas in the summer of 1944 was the concern of previous volumes. The present takes up the
                    story at that point and continues to the final defeat of 
                        Japan
                     in 1945.
            On the same June day of 1944 that marines stormed the shores of Saipan in the Marianas, more than two
                    score 
                        China
                    -based B-29's bombed iron and steel works on one of the southern Japanese home
                    islands. Although widely separated in space, the two operations were closely connected in strategy.
                    The latter inaugurated a new phase of the air war against 
                        Japan
                    —strategic bombardment against the homeland. The former was concerned with
                    the establishment of a more effective base of operations for that program. For this new weapon, the
                    B-29, based in 
                  India, China
               , and the Marianas, and created primarily to hit 
                        Japan
                    , there was established the Twentieth Air Force. MATTERHORN was the code name assigned
                    to the project originally. "Essentially it was an effort to introduce into the Japanese war
                    the objectives and techniques of the Combined Bomber Offensive in Europe: so to batter the
                    industrial fabric of an enemy nation by long range bombardment that armed resistance would be
                    enfeebled." Target objectives generally were to be the aircraft industry, coke and steel,
                    shipping in harbors, and urban areas.
            Before transfer to the Pacific area as the general base of operations of the air war against 
                        Japan
                     was completed, the difficult task of bringing to a satisfactory consummation the defeat
                    of the enemy in the CBI theater was necessary. The great distance from the 
                        United States
                    , priority claims of other combat areas, and the Himalaya barrier presented almost
                    insurmountable obstacles. The progress of Allied military operations in the Pacific which detracted
                    Japanese attention, the build-up mainly in 
                        India
                     of an extensive and well co-ordinated air supply and maintenance service, and the
                    Allied "miracle of production," which brought into the theater unprecedented
                    amounts of supplies and equipment, contributed to the eventual expulsion of the Japanese from the
                    theater. Although this was outside the main area of combat and probably in no significant way
                    affected the ultimate Japanese decision to surrender, postwar testimony of ranking Japanese officers
                    in 
                        China
                     asserted that, "but for the Fourteenth Air Force, ‘we could have
                    gone anywhere we wished.’ "
            The Philippine and southwest Pacific campaign of 1944–1945  succeeded in the establishment of a direct sea route to 
                        China
                     and the interdiction of Japanese communications with the southern resources area in the 
                        Netherlands
                     East Indies, thus cutting off all hope of reinforcement. Morotai, 
                        Palau
                    , Leyte, Luzon, and Lingayen Gulf are a few of the place names that became household
                    words as Allied forces moved northward. Although the enemy had tried every stratagem in his book by
                    the summer of 1945, the air-sea blockade of the Allies had cut the Japanese lifeline.
            It was decided that the major strength of the Twentieth Air Force would be based in the Pacific,
                    specifically in the Marianas—
                        Guam
                    , Tinian, and Saipan. From here B-29's were in reach of all important Japanese
                    industrial areas, and supplies could be brought in by ships according to schedules that were
                    reasonably predictable. Despite unusual weather difficulties, air-sea rescue problems, and other
                    hurdles, B-29's began to penetrate the enemy stronghold. Indirect effects on the Japanese,
                    such as shattering their notion of supposed immunity from air attack, were as important in the long
                    run as actual physical destruction accomplished.
            The bloody Iwo Jima campaign, which transformed that island into a base whose chief purpose was to
                    support the B-29 effort against 
                        Japan
                    , the great improvement of the air-sea rescue program, the night incendiary attacks on
                    urban areas, the Okinawa assault—these "had brought the Japanese to bay in their
                    home islands."
            Although the very means for waging war had been attacked, and although the continuing air bombardment
                    and the tightening air and sea blockade were threatening their war effort, there was still the
                    question of whether the enemy might not resort to a suicidal last-ditch defense rather than
                    surrender. In the midst of fast maturing invasion plans (OLYMPIC), the mounting intensity of Allied
                    air attack, the atom bomb attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and Russian entry, the war was
                    terminated by the Japanese surrender.
            In addition to the editors, a half-dozen other writers have contributed chapters to this volume. For
                    the most part they continue the tradition from the previous volumes of heavily documented, factual,
                    and detailed reporting not only of the air forces but of the other arms and services, where needed
                    to round out their accounts. Objectivity is so much the rule that  the phrase "but in the opinion of the author" appearing in a footnote was
                    almost startling.
            In the opinion of this reviewer, some of the best writing of the entire series appears in the present
                    volume. Especially is this true of the first five chapters by James Lea Cate, which deal with the 
                        China
                    -based raids. Lee Bowen's account of the siege of Myitkyina is superb, as are
                    parts of Frank Futrell's description of the Leyte campaign. The last chapter by Cate and
                    Wesley Frank Craven, concerning the atom bomb, Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the surrender, and an
                    appraisal, is a distinct style departure. It is as if all other chapters and the previous volumes
                    had been written by military historians for military men. Cate and Craven's final chapter
                    in this volume, "Victory," is written by military historians for civilians.
            
               Miami University Dwight L. Smith
         
         
            
               Zachary Taylor, Soldier in the White House. By Holman 
                        Hamilton
                    . (
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Bobbs-Merrill Company, 1951, pp. 496. Illustrations, bibliography, and index.
                    $6.00.)
            In this day those who seek political offices travel far and wide and deliver numerous speeches to win
                    their goal. Yet, over a hundred years ago a planter and soldier who had no political aspirations and
                    who had never even voted, became the favorite candidate of the masses for the highest office in the
                    land, and was elected without having either toured the country or delivered a speech. Many reasons
                    for this warrior's going into the White House could be cited, but suffice it to say that
                    Zachary Taylor regarded politics not as a "highroad to power and glory, but rather as a
                    path to be followed reluctantly to the place where a citizen could perform a service."
            Holman 
                        Hamilton
                     in this second volume of his biography of Taylor has carefully traced the steps of
                    "Old Rough and Ready" from planting and soldiering into politics. His meticulous
                    digging has produced a biography of outstanding merits. Most of Taylor's papers were
                    destroyed during the Civil War and the Congressional Globe and other related
                    sources had to be studied with care. 
                        Hamilton
                    's search revealed  the authorship of the
                    Allison Letters. A preliminary draft of the first letter was prepared by Logan Hunton, James Love,
                    and Balie Peyton at 
                        Baton Rouge
                     in April, 1848. It was discussed with Taylor and he "agreed to sign a letter
                    incorporating ‘what he had said & no more.’ " Thereupon
                    Hunton composed "the most important document of the preconvention campaign," but
                    insisted that the "letter must be in Taylor's handwriting." The second
                    Allison Letter was written by Alexander Bullitt at East Pascagoula, 
                        Mississippi
                    , on September 4, 1848. "This product of Taylor's pen was his only
                    significant stroke during the first three weeks of September."
            One so inexperienced in the political world as President Taylor could not please everybody. 
                        Hamilton
                     claims that Taylor's mistakes upon the whole were errors in "language
                    and not in policy." "Old Zack" was well aware of his shortcomings and
                    frequently remarked that he preferred his planting duties to the Presidency. The author feels also
                    that the planter and soldier has been misjudged because of the "supposedly baffling
                    contrast between what his background indicated he would do and what he actually did." Some
                    writers have criticized Taylor because he owned slaves—"speculating why an
                    investor in such property proved so stanch a Unionist." Taylor was "nationally
                    minded; private economic interests never oversloughed his devotion to the Union."
            A third fact which has confused some interpreters is the contradictory support given the General in
                    1848. 
                        Hamilton
                     is of the opinion that if "Old Rough and Ready" had
                    "broadcast what he thought and felt about every issue disturbing the nation, he could not
                    have been elected." A fourth aspect, "not firmly grasped," was the origin
                    of the President's Plan. The fifth and last misinterpretation is closely related to the
                    first two. "He was more than a successful soldier. Rough and ready in
                    battle, he exemplified in peace an attractive mingling of 
                        Virginia
                     gentility and frontier earthiness. Stormy when aroused to anger, he was calm,
                    considerate, modest, patient in the majority of his contacts. At times he failed to assert himself.
                    And his most damaging tactical error lay in his reluctance to dismiss his ministers. But, just as he
                    developed as a soldier, he improved as a political leader, gaining confidence from day to
                    day."
            Throughout the second volume, 
                        Hamilton
                     has portrayed the qualities of the soldier-president and has expressed conviction  that Taylor was a " ‘strong
                    executive’ in the Jacksonian sense, when illness came to carry him off." In the
                    production of this biography, 
                        Hamilton
                     has made a significant contribution to the field of history.
            
               Indiana University Elfrieda Lang
         
         
            
               The Hoosier Training Ground; A History of Army and Navy Training Centers, Camps,
                        Forts, Depots, and Other Military Installations Within the State Boundaries During World War
                    II. Compiled by Dorothy Riker. (
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana: Indiana War History Commission, 1952, pp. xiv, 381. Illustrations and index.
                    $5.00.)
            Many significant stories of interest to Indianians have been brought together within this volume.
                    Probably every Hoosier knows more or less about some of these developments; but few will have
                    knowledge of the combined effect of all the government construction programs in Indiana during the
                    second World War. The building of Camp Atterbury, Wake-man Hospital, Baer Field, Bunker Hill Naval
                    Air Station, Freeman Field, and Billings General Hospital is described in short chapters devoted to
                    training installations. Among the military depots and proving grounds dealt with, Miss Riker has
                    assembled chapters on Crane Naval Ammunition Depot, 
                        Indianapolis
                     Chemical Warfare Depot, 
                        Jeffersonville
                     Quartermaster Depot, 
                        Terre Haute
                     Ordnance Depot, and the Jefferson Proving Ground. Miss Riker wrote ten of the chapters,
                    Professor Lynn W. Turner of Indiana University five, May E. Arbuckle and Richard Simons one each.
            Few will realize that the federal government poured one billion dollars into the hills of Martin
                    County or that approximately one-fortieth the entire value of the 
                        United States
                     Navy is to be found within the confines of Crane Naval Ammunition Depot. Fifty-six
                    thousand acres in Jefferson, Jennings, and 
                        Ripley
                     counties were incorporated in the Jefferson Proving Ground for the testing of
                    explosives. The miracles of speedy construction, the building that took place before Pearl Harbor in
                    order to make the 
                        United States
                     an arsenal of democracy, and the quickness with which these institutions were put to
                    work are all revealed in the various chapters. The reader will understand more realistically why war
                    costs so much.  He will see that the government undertook more
                    construction in southern Indiana, perhaps, to counterbalance the vast contracts for manufacture that
                    were awarded to business firms in central and northern parts of the state; but he will also realize
                    that many of these installations are now inactive and that their acres are not helping to swell the
                    agriculture production of the southern counties, while the manufacturing firms elsewhere have
                    converted to peace-time production.
            The volume represents some of the delayed results of the work of the Indiana War History Commission
                    which collected much of the material that has gone into three published books. The compiler, the
                    authors, and the present director of the commission, Lynn W. Turner, are to be congratulated on
                    producing an attractive, interesting, and significant publication.
            
               Indiana University John D. Barnhart
         
         
            
               The History of Trinity Evangelical and Reformed Church, 1853-1953, 
                            Mount Vernon
                        , Indiana. By Elfrieda Lang. (
                        St. Louis
                    , Eden Publishing House, 1953, pp. ix, 206. Maps, bibliography, and index.
                    $3.00.)
            Historians have come to expect local church histories to be brief, unreliable, and of little value.
                    Thus it is a considerable pleasure to find a well-written and documented history of a local church;
                    those members of the church responsible for this writing can congratulate themselves on their
                    notable sponsorship of this publication.
            Elfrieda Lang, the Assistant Curator of Manuscripts of the Indiana University Library, has divided
                    her book into two major sections, and The History of Trinity Evangelical and Reformed
                        Church, 1853-1953 is a far broader study than its title would indicate. The first section
                    of the work treats successively the history of 
                        German
                     immigration, the Evangelical Synod of North America, and the Reformed Church in the 
                        United States
                    . These chapters provide a sound and concise summary of certain aspects of the 
                        German
                     influences in the Middle West and in many cases include valuable primary material.
                    Numerous citations from diaries, journals, and newspapers form the backbone of this readable and
                    well-documented description and discussion of the problems and 
                    achievements of the 
                        German
                     immigrants, the Evangelical Church, and the Reformed Church.
            The author next presents the history of the Trinity Evangelical and Reformed Church of 
                        Mount Vernon
                    , Indiana; this church grew in large measure from the three elements initially described
                    in the book. Essentially, this history becomes a chronicle—a record of particular events
                    given in chronological order. Editorial comments assist the reader in appreciating the significance
                    of the various events described; however, the history of Trinity is presented without attempt to
                    integrate the facts or to develop themes or movements. This is an intelligent handling of these
                    typical local church records. For, even when supplemented by other primary sources, these materials
                    do not provide sufficient basis for writing interpretive history.
            This chronicle is a mine of Americana for the student of social history—a day by day
                    record of a small-town church gets close to the basic American religious organizational patterns.
                    The clashing of new ideas with established views is vividly outlined and the pressures for change
                    operating on the congregation are recorded with repetitious emphasis. Small-town America is best
                    understood in terms of materials such as these.
            Comparisons of Trinity to other Evangelical and Reformed churches and comparisons of the work of
                    Trinity with other churches in 
                        Mount Vernon
                     might have proved useful in assisting the reader to evaluate the role of this
                    particular church. The value of this work extends far beyond the history of this one church,
                    however, and to have included these comparisons might have detracted from the more significant
                    results.
            
               
                  
                            South Bend
                         Extension Center, Indiana University Jack J. Detzler
         
         
            
               Mr. Jefferson's Disciple: A Life of Justice Woodward. By Frank B.
                    Woodford. (East Lansing, 
                        Michigan
                    : 
                        Michigan
                     State College Press, 1953, pp. viii, 212. Bibliography and index. $3.75.)
            A genius, by definition, is a person endowed with unusual mental power, in whose exercise he often
                    seems to defy the  rules of ordinary common sense. Judge Augustus
                    Brevoort Woodward was emphatically a genius, misunderstood and commonly unappreciated by his
                    contemporaries. Yet he left a deeper mark upon 
                        Detroit
                     and 
                        Michigan
                     than did almost anyone else who can be named.
            It is this tantalizing character whose career Frank B. Woodford undertakes to portray. Woodford is a
                    journalist by profession, who makes a hobby of the study of local history. It is scarcely necessary
                    to add that he commands an easy narrative style and a high degree of skill in organizing his
                    narrative—qualifications not too commonly possessed by present-day historical scholars.
                    The amount of information he has assembled about Judge Woodward is remarkable. The book is much
                    broader than its title suggests. In short, it is a "Life and Times" biography,
                    which comprises a pretty thoroughgoing history of 
                        Michigan
                     for the two decades (1805-1824) of Judge Woodward's residence there.
            Woodward was born in 
                        New York City
                     in 1774. Baptized "Elias," he subsequently discarded this name,
                    replacing it with the "Augustus" by which he is commonly known. Thoroughly steeped
                    in classical literature, his self-chosen baptismal name suggests the role he aspired to play in
                    life.
            In 1795 Woodward migrated to Rockbridge County, 
                        Virginia
                    , where he had the good fortune to meet and establish a life-long friendship with Thomas
                    Jefferson. Following several years spent in infant 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., as lawyer and land speculator, upon the creation of 
                        Michigan
                     Territory in the winter of 1805 he was appointed by the President a member of the Board
                    of Governor and Judges of the new territory.
            The Territorial Act became effective on July 1, 1805. Three weeks earlier (June 11), century-old 
                        Detroit
                     was completely destroyed by fire. Such was the scene of desolation which presented
                    itself to the governor and judges who shortly arrived on the scene to establish the new territorial
                    government. Judge Woodward, however, viewed the situation as a heaven-sent opportunity to replace
                    the cramped lay-out of vanished French 
                        Detroit
                     with a city plan whose magnificence has never yet been excelled. The town of 
                        Detroit
                    , buried in the American wilderness, was destroyed, he affirmed, to become one of the
                    foremost metropolises of the "terraqueous" globe. Such old-world centers as 
                        London
                     and 
                        Paris
                     had suffered immeasurably through lack of adequate fore-planning.  This fate he would forestall for infant 
                        Detroit
                     by laying out a city plan capable of indefinite extension as population increased, and
                    endowed with a multiplicity of avenues, squares, triangles, and parks. Since then the metropolis he
                    foretold has taken material form, and one striking illustration of his vision is afforded by the
                    fact that he provided 200-foot-wide main avenues, almost identical with the 204-foot
                    "superhighways" which ring twentieth-century 
                        Detroit
                    .
            One would like to trace further the career of this unique American but limitation of space forbids.
                    Woodford has done it exceedingly well and his study makes a notable addition to the historiography
                    of 
                        Detroit
                     and the Northwest. In him this remarkable man Woodward has at length found an adequate
                    biographer.
            
               
                        
                     Detroit, Michigan
                  
                     Milo M. Quaife
         
         
            
               Veterans in Politics: The Story of the G.A.R. By Mary R. Dearing. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1952, pp. xiii, 523. Index, bibliographical note, and
                    illustrations. $6.00.)
            Each draped in a torn army blanket and kneeling before a coffin which bore the name of a victim of
                    Andersonville Prison, thousands of Hoosiers took their solemn oaths to the Grand Army of the
                    Republic. Throughout the eighty-three years between its first national convention in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1866 and its last in the same city in 1949, the G.A.R. and Indiana exercised
                    reciprocal influences upon each other. Explanation of the order's special appeal to
                    Hoosiers is to be found, perhaps, in the role of the state in the war, the Copperhead movement, the
                    intensity and relative equality of partisan warfare, and the nationalistic spirit that Indiana
                    evinces in such varied manifestations as war service and the Ku Klux Klan. Whatever the explanation,
                    this book has a particular relevance to Indiana readers. It is also a case study of veteran
                    political behavior with possible applications to the present.
            Mrs. Dearing has done well. Written entirely from the sources, her account is characterized by
                    restrained judgment and a style that is straightforward but not particularly lively. It is
                    comprehensive in scope. Perhaps its unique contribution is a discussion of the less well-known
                    efforts of the G.A.R.  to prescribe its definition of patriotism
                    for all citizens. However, a few things are missed by this curious reviewer. Failure to find the
                    number of members in Indiana called attention to a lack of statistical data. Further analysis of why
                    these veterans characteristically supported the conservative side of economic and social questions
                    would have been welcomed. The "Bibliographical Note" is only that.
            Omnipresent upon their immediate return from the front, the veterans had soon begun to lose
                    themselves in the general population. Beginning in the mid-seventies, however, a resurgence of
                    veteran activity transformed them into a highly successful pressure group that eventually cost the
                    federal government more than one-fifth of its total revenue. Such power, Mrs. Dearing believes, was
                    made possible by the special hold which victors in a domestic war have upon the emotions of the
                    public; decreased Republican strength with the end of Reconstruction that made it politically
                    expedient for them to cultivate the veteran vote; entry into politics of many veterans; and the rise
                    of energetic organizers to G.A.R. leadership.
            
               University of 
                            South Dakota
                        
                Cedric C. Cummins
         
         
            
               Zion on the 
                            Mississippi
                        : The Settlement of the Saxon Lutherans in 
                            Missouri
                        , 1839-1841. By Walter O. Forster. (Saint Louis: Concordia Publishing House,
                    1953, pp. xiv, 606. Illustrations, maps, bibliography, and index. $4.00.)
            This book had its origin as a doctoral dissertation written under the direction of Ralph Bieber of 
                        Washington
                     University in 
                        St. Louis
                    . It has been revised and expanded into a formidable tome of nineteen chapters, covering
                    606 pages. An associate professor of history and government at Purdue University, the author has
                    drawn on his huge resources to compile this history, which will easily stand on its own merits as a
                    valuable contribution to the history of nineteenth century immigration to the 
                        United States
                    . Although this immigration was essentially religious in origin and effect, and thus
                    constitutes an important chapter in the history of the "Lutheran Church—
                        Missouri
                     Synod," the wider sociological treatment of the subject should attract the
                    interest of social historians.
            Forster's treatment portrays the sociological process involved  in the transplanting of foreign European church traditions to the new
                    world environment in the course of which certain modifications occur which may be referred to as
                    "Americanization." The chapter dealing with the European background emphasizes the
                    socio-historical factors which, along with the religious, led to the "Rise of Stephanism in
                    Saxony, 1810-1837" (chapter two) and to the further "Transformation of Stephanism
                    into Separatism" (chapter three). The development of the emigration idea and the
                    organization of the Auswanderungs-Gesellschaft were likewise clearly affected by
                    motives other than religious, which accounts for the strong political and economic aspects of the
                    movement.
            The conclusion that of all the European emigration societies of the nineteenth century none was more
                    carefully planned than this one, is borne out by the study of a set of codes—"an
                    unusual group of documents in the history of American immigration." These are conveniently
                    translated in an appendix which contains: Brief Outline of the Emigration Code; Code for the Credit
                    Fund; Traveling Regulations; Regulations for Settlement of the Gesellschaft; Code
                    for the Civil Community. Valuable for sociological implications are the "Lists and
                    Tables" which classify the colonists of the various emigrating groups according to
                    occupation, former place of residence, sex, age, marital status, size of families, etc. The chapter
                    describing the voyage in five ships from Bremer-haven to 
                        St. Louis
                     and via steamboats from 
                        New Orleans
                     is followed by an equally fascinating account of the Saxons and their new home in 
                        St. Louis
                     and 
                        Perry County
                    . The description of the first contact with religious conditions in the West is a
                    particularly intriguing account of the anti-religious Germans of the day.
            Social historians will be attracted by the discussion of the Western frontier environment into which
                    these Germans were projected. Interspersed through the text and sometimes in the form of independent
                    little studies are discussions on steamboat traffic of the day, the social and economic status of 
                        St. Louis
                     and its numerous newspapers, the violently anti-religious 
                        German
                     press, previous 
                        German
                     immigrations to 
                        Missouri
                    , the distinctions between the Dreissiger and the Achtunvierziger. The chapter on "Problems of Communal Living in 
                        St. Louis
                    " deals with economic conditions, the housing problem, health conditions,
                    educational facilities, cultural interests, etc.
            
            Attention should be called to the many illustrations, including reproductions of documents, and to
                    the vast number of footnotes, in addition to the index and appendices.
            
               Eden Theological Seminary Carl E. Schneider
         
         
            
               Fortune Favors the Brave: The Life and Times of Horace Bell, Pioneer
                    Californian. By Benjamin S. Harrison. (
                        Los Angeles
                    : The Ward Ritchie Press, 1953, pp. xvi, 307. Illustrations, bibliography, and index.
                    $7.50.)
            Horace Bell, the subject of this unusual biography, had more than his share of high adventure during
                    his long lifetime. Even compared with present-day careers of Americans serving in numerous far-flung
                    American frontiers, the list of Bell's accomplishments and experiences are overshadowing.
                    His adventures in the role of an overlander to 
                        California
                     during the gold rush; a vigilante in 
                        California
                     during the 1850's; a filibusterer with William Walker in 
                        Nicaragua
                    ; a participant in abolitionist activities in 
                        Kentucky
                    ; a soldier of fortune in the Mexican army of Benito Juarez; a schoolteacher and
                    traveler in Tehuantepec, 
                        Mexico
                    ; a soldier; a 
                        United States
                     spy in 
                        Cuba
                    ; and, later, a mounted scout in the Civil War; a 
                        Los Angeles
                     newspaper man; and a civic leader, compose a tale of a life that is as strange as
                    fiction.
            Horace Bell (1830-1918), born and reared near the north bank of the 
                        Ohio
                     River in southern Indiana, began his adventurous career when he left for 
                        California
                     at the age of twenty. For the next sixteen years until he finally settled down to make
                    a home in the 
                        Los Angeles
                     area, Bell's life was one of constant travel and adventure. Upon his arrival
                    in 
                        California
                    , Bell lived for a time in the home of his uncle who had married into one of the old
                    Mexican families of the 
                        Los Angeles
                     area. Through the influence of his aunt, he participated in the social life of the
                    time, and he has left numerous accounts of 
                        California
                     society during the 1850's in respect to manners, customs, and conditions.
            Horace Bell played an important part in the career of William Walker, the American filibusterer who
                    made himself president of 
                        Nicaragua
                     in 1856. The account of Bell's recruiting 
                        California
                     adventurers for Walker's forces and his subsequent  adventures as a captain and major in Walker's army gives
                    additional light upon some of the little-known activities of this filibustering expedition. The
                    account, vivid and detailed in materials concerning troop movements, the hardships of the Americans,
                    the internal conditions of Central America, the personal characters of the men involved, and the
                    blunders of Walker, make this work source material on the Walker expedition. Descriptions of their
                    hair-raising adventures by Bell and his brother-soldiers of fortune provide a wealth of reliable
                    information concerning the expedition.
            Harrison's treatment of the Civil War years of Horace Bell's life is unusual.
                    Instead of using the conventional method of dealing with campaign strategies and battle events, he
                    has confined his materials almost entirely to Bell's personal adventures. After serving a
                    three months' enlistment as a quartermaster sergeant in the Sixth Regiment of Indiana, Bell
                    joined the Union forces as a scout under General Lew Wallace. As such, he held no rank and usually
                    did not wear a uniform; yet he was attached to one of the higher headquarters. His duties and
                    assignments were many and varied. As a recruiting officer in 
                        New York City
                    , he met and married his first wife. Another assignment took him to 
                        Cuba
                    , where his ability to speak Spanish fluently made it possible for him to spy on the
                    naval activities of the Confederates on the island. During the last years of the Civil War, Bell was
                    the chief of scouts for General Edward R. Canby, whose headquarters were in 
                        New Orleans
                    . Often Bell passed through the Confederate lines and scouted enemy troop movements and
                    activities for Canby. His escapes were many and narrow. The author has treated these adventures in a
                    refreshing and realistic manner.
            At the close of the Civil War, Bell returned to the city of 
                        Los Angeles
                     where he became a newspaper man, lawyer, public official, and civic leader. As such he
                    helped 
                        Los Angeles
                     grow from a primitive pueblo to a great city of over half a million in population. His
                    sterling character and his boundless energy made him very active in the city's affairs.
            There are few noticeable shortcomings in this work. The account of the genealogy of Bell's
                    ancestors is a little monotonous. On page 106 it is stated that Bell held no rank in the Union Army
                    as a mounted scout; yet on, page 165 Bell is referred to as "Captain." The details
                    concerning Bell's transcontinental  journeys are often
                    disappointingly brief. Despite these minor flaws, Harrison has written a very meritorious biography.
                    A refreshing writer as well as a historian, he has chosen his materials well. Footnotes and
                    bibliography are at the back of the volume; they are available to the historian without disrupting
                    for the casual reader the book's splendid continuity.
            This reviewer was both astonished and impressed by the sources used by the author; among them are the
                    published and unpublished writings of Horace Bell; reminiscences of William Anderson, one of the
                    elder citizens of 
                        Los Angeles
                    ; numerous 
                        California
                     newspapers; General Lew Wallace's Autobiography; U.S. War
                    Department, The War of the Rebellion … Official Records of the Union and
                        Confederate Armies; and numerous documents in the Indiana State Library, 
                        Huntington
                     Library, Bancroft Library, 
                        Los Angeles
                     County Museum, the 
                        Los Angeles
                     County Library, and other depositories.
            This volume is well worth the attention of the historians who are interested in the history of the
                    American West, Latin America, and the Civil War. It is equally worth the attention of all who love
                    to read accounts of adventure.
            
               Eastern 
                            Illinois
                         State College William D. Miner
         
         
            
               Stephen Vaughan: Financial Agent of Henry VIII. A Study of Financial Relations with
                        the Low Countries. By W. C. Richardson. 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Studies, Social Science Series, Number Three. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1953, pp. xii, 106. Bibliography and index. $1.50.)
            The complexities of Tudor finances do not readily lend themselves to narrative history, but through
                    the career and correspondence of Stephen Vaughan, W. C. Richardson has attempted to clarify and
                    enliven an obscure subject. Drawn from the published Letters and Papers of Henry
                    VIII and English manuscript collections, this brief study (only eighty pages of text) traces
                    Vaughan's career as first Cromwell's and then the king's agent in the Low
                    Countries and at Antwerp during the years 1532-1546. The story that emerges is of interest as an
                    illustration of the inexperienced stumbling of the Henrican diplomatic corps. Stephen Vaughan,
                    though  more active than some of his fellows, was not an
                    unqualified success. As Professor Richardson observes, he was "a practical businessman,
                    unversed for the most part in the subtleties of the new renaissance statecraft. If his various
                    missions were ably performed, it was primarily because they required no great ability."
            International finance called forth Vaughan's greatest efforts and here his experiences are
                    truly illuminating. Under constant pressure from a needy court after 1544 when he was officially
                    designated as the royal agent in Antwerp, and forced to accede to unfavorable terms from foreign
                    bankers, his position was thoroughly unenviable. At times he could do little more than watch the
                    steady decline of English credit and rise of interest rates. Chastened by authorities at home, he
                    once remarked that, "having bills of good credence here, I am well assured to make the
                    King's Majesty a million of crowns. But such bills I hear not of." That he
                    succeeded in satisfying a voracious master and his greedy creditors at all is little short of
                    miraculous. In the process he suffered much mental anguish, received slight compensation and even
                    less honor. His was one of those necessary but thankless tasks whereby nations are built. The new
                    venture into international finance, the raising of foreign loans by a permanent financial agent, was
                    one more Henrican experiment; Vaughan's success, limited though it was, "paved the
                    way for Sir Thomas Gresham's more spectacular achievements at Antwerp during the second
                    half of the sixteenth century."
            Professor Richardson's mastery of the subject is unquestionable, but in several respects he
                    might have made a better book. The details of international finance may not be particularly
                    fascinating, as he suggests, nor Stephen Vaughan a peculiarly intriguing person, but neither is
                    allowed full scope in the present work. Perhaps brevity may account for some shortcomings, and as
                    the author mentions unculled archives in Antwerp, his readers may hope for an expansion of this
                    exploratory venture. The 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press does a real service to scholarship by utilizing photographic
                    reproduction of typescript as a means of publication in this day of high prices, but would it be
                    asking too much to beg the return of citations to the foot of the page, or the use of a typewriter
                    equipped with brackets and the pound  sign? The reader's
                    pleasure would seem worthy of the slight cost involved, especially in the production of a small
                    volume of such great merit.
            
               
                  
                            Alabama
                         Polytechnic Institute Robert R. Rea
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Union County Marriages, 1821-1826
            Dorothy Riker∗
            
               Martin Wright to Polly Cartwright, Mar. 4, 1821, p. 1.
               Anthony Nelson to Sophia Summey, Mar. 15, 1821.
               George Talhunter [Talkington?] to Matilda Fisher, Mar. 29, 1821.
               Charley 
                            Mansfield
                         to Hannah Shafer, Apr. 8, 1821.
               Hiram Price to Patricia McCallan [?], Apr. 8, 1821.
               Joseph B. Wheeler to Christina Lassley, Apr. 7, 1821.
               John Fosdick to Luisa Mead, Apr. 12, 1821.
               Joseph Minor to Fanny Odle, Apr. 19, 1821, p. 2.
               David North to Esther Minor, May 3, 1821.
               Thomas Powers to Catherine Creek, May 6, 1821.
               Abner McCarty to Jane Templeton, May 17, 1821.
               Abraham Miller to Mary Thompson, May 31, 1821.
               William Bradway to Elizabeth Hunter, June 7, 1821.
               Jacob Newkirk to Mary Dickison, June 7, 1821.
               Adam Miller to Sydney Johnston, June 28, 1821, p. 3.
               Isaac Betts to Anne Creek, Mar. 8, 1821.
               George Druck to Damascus Rambo, June 9, 1821.
               David Stevenson to Lydia Gaby, June 14, 1821.
               Uzziel Church to Mary Ann Bennett, July 5, 1821.
               William Cosby to Elizabeth Cram, July 5, 1821, p. 4.
               Nathan Thornton to Charity Cook, July 11, 1821.
               Valentine Harlan to Elizabeth Harlan, July 29, 1821.
               James Hopper to Harriett Burress [?], Aug. 30, 1821.
               Pleasant Holloway to Samaria Stantz, Sep. 12, 1821, p. 5.
               Joseph McMahan to Delilah Dunbar, Sep. 11, 1821 (date of license).
               Martin Kingry to Phebe Lebrook [Lybrook?], Sep. 24, 1821 (date of license).
               James Arnold to Nancy Styles, Oct. 24, 1821.
               James 
                            Mansfield
                         to May Andrews, Oct. 25, 1821.
               John Burk to Peggy Yergar, Nov. 15, 1821, p. 6.
               Benjamin Coffin to Hannah Stanton, Nov. 25, 1821.
               Uriah Thornton to Charity Cook, Nov. 25, 1821.
               George Key to Rebecca Rardin, Dec. 2, 1821, p. 7.
               Isaac Darter to Sally Ewing, Dec. 6, 1821.
               John Cunningham to Emelia Walker, Dec. 13, 1821, p. 8.
               Joseph Stretch to Sally Dewey, Dec 25, 1821.
               Jonathan Hunt to Nancy Abrams, Jan. 13, 1822, p. 9.
               Enoch Abraham to Catherine Lilley, alias Catherine Moffett, Jan. 19, 1822. 
                     
                        ∗ Dorothy Riker is an editor on the staff of the
                                Indiana Historical Bureau. These records were copied by the Genealogy Division, Indiana
                                State Library, from microfilm of Union County Marriage Licenses, Book 1, 1821-1826. The
                                book is in the courthouse at Liberty, Indiana. Unless otherwise indicated, the date
                                given is the date of the marriage. The beginning of each new page of the original record
                                is noted.
                  
               
               
               George Carr to Margot Orr, Jan. 19, 1822 (date of license).
               Robert White to Jane Kirkpatrick, Feb. 14, 1822.
               Daniel Burt to Elizabeth Ward, Feb. 21, 1822, p. 10.
               Jonathan Hayworth to Elizabeth Wright, Mar. 20, 1822.
               John Seward to Elizabeth Smith, Mar. 12, 1822.
               Caleb Bates to Sarah Serring, Apr. 7, 1822, p. 11.
               Joseph Camblin to Sarah Crouch, Apr. 10, 1822.
               Jesse Hollingsworth to Sarah Lewis, May 19, 1822.
               Isaac Ramsay to Rachel Cook, June 13, 1822, p. 12.
               William Oldham to Naomi Morphew, July 7, 1822.
               Daniel Morphew to Amy Grimes, July 18, 1822, p. 18.
               John Shannon to Margaret Carmichael, July 21, 1822.
               Nathan Crouch to Sarah Seaton, July 30, 1822.
               Edward Railsback to Fransina Hunt, Aug. 8, 1822, p. 14.
               Jeremiah Nugent to Sarah Langston, Aug. 15, 1822.
               Samuel Ely to Caty Whisman, Aug. 22, 1822.
               Ira Foster to Sarah McRay, Aug. 24, 1822, p. 15.
               Levin Willis to Assenath Hazelton, Aug. 28, 1822.
               George Whisman to Hannah Osson, Sept. 5, 1822, p. 16.
               Thomas A. Thorn to Susanna Huff, Sep. 5, 1822.
               James Hogan to Eliza Crouch, Sep. 3, 1822, p. 17.
               Ebenezer Hayward to Sarah Shannon, Sep. 15, 1822.
               Samuel Mager to Susanna Kingry, Sep. 17, 1822, p. 18.
               Samuel Littrell to Nancy Steward, Sep. 18, 1822.
               James Jay to Lydia Hollingsworth, Sep. 26, 1822, p. 19.
               Robert Carr to Agness Huston, Sep. 28, 1822 (date of license).
               John H. Newland to Mary Huff, Sep. 30, 1822, p. 20.
               Lewis Walker to Hannah Ferguson, Nov. 21, 1822.
               William Huston to Polly Cottrell, Dec. 5, 1822, p. 21.
               Uzal Ward to Lydia Lafuze, Dec. 12, 1822.
               William Macy to Rhoda Stanton, Dec. 25, 1822, p. 22.
               Justice Fale to Rebecca Serring, Dec. 15, 1822.
               Joseph Kingry to Elizabeth Mayer, Dec. 17, 1822, p. 23.
               John Mailen to Sarah B. Ward, Oct. 31, 1823 [1822?].
               Samuel Jennings to Sally Ann Springer, Jan. 9, 1823, p. 24.
               Clemons Pritchet to Matilda Hayden, Feb. 11, 1823.
               Simon Cassaday to Delia McCauly, Feb. 23, 1823, p. 25.
               James W. Crist to Mary Lafuze, Feb. 28, 1823.
               William W. Lafuze to Hannah Ward, Mar. 4, 1823, p. 26.
               John Williams to Mary McCoy, Mar. 8, 1823.
               James Presley to Elizabeth 
                            Hamilton
                        , Jan. 23, 1823, p. 27.
               Joseph Dawson to Priscilla Van Blair, Apr. 1, 1823.
               William 
                            Campbell
                         to Nancy Leviston, Mar. 20, 1823, p. 28.
               Samuel Vaneton to Rebecca Knutt [Knott?], Apr. 17, 1823.
               James Thomas to Nancy Ann Williams, Apr. 30, 1823, p. 29.
               John S. Hunt to Tempy Estep, May 8, 1823.
               Hugh Davis to Elizabeth Woods, June 5, 1823 (date of license), p. 30.
               Adam 
                            Conn
                        to May Clary, July 10, 1823.
               Seth Summers to May McDowel, Aug. 4, 1823, p. 31.
               Samuel Andrews to Rachael Kyger, July 17, 1823, p. 32.
               
               David Berry, Jr. to Sarah Nutter, July 18, 1823, p. 33.
               Daniel Smith to Elizabeth Lassly, Aug. 8, 1823, p. 34.
               Noah Cartwright to Anna Minor, Aug. 12, 1823, p. 35.
               John Shelby to Sarah McCauly, Aug. 21, 1823, p. 36.
               Samuel Cunningham to Polly Walker, Aug. 26, 1823, p. 37.
               Henry Hunter to Mary Hughes, Sep. 4, 1823, p. 38.
               David Wilson to Peggy Conaway, Oct. 2, 1823, p. 39.
               Richard Risher to Patsy Ring, Oct. 9, 1823, p. 40.
               Gabriel Fender to Sarah McMahan, Oct. 23, 1823, p. 41.
               Arthur F. Norris to Catharine Snowden, Oct. 30, 1823, p. 42.
               Tilman Emmons to Nancy Wright, Oct. 30, 1823 (date of license), p. 43.
               Joseph Harlan to Elizabeth Leviston, Oct. 30, 1823, p. 44.
               Adam Snider to Elizabeth Whisman, Nov. 2, 1823, p. 45.
               Samuel Larkin to Hannah Chenault, Nov. 11, 1823, p. 46.
               Samuel Miller to Hannah Coddington, Nov. 21, 1823, p. 47.
               Charles Wright to Charity Wright, Nov. 12, 1823, p. 48.
               Pleasant Stanly to Mary Burroughs, Dec. 4, 1823, p. 49.
               Josiah Heavenridge to Mary Burt, Dec. 11, 1823, p. 50.
               Jacob Skillman to Rosana Hickman, Dec. 11, 1823, p. 51.
               William Youse to Mary Ann Frazier, Dec. 30, 1823, p. 52.
               James Scott to Hanna Conn, Dec. 23, 1823 (date of license), p. 53.
               Moses Snider to Elizabeth Miller, Dec. 25, 1823, p. 54.
               John W. Swann to Rosanna McGeer, Dec. 30, 1823 (date of license), p. 55.
               Daniel Dwiggins to Sarah Knott, Jan. 8, 1824, p. 56.
               Archibald Hill to Sarah Ferguson, Jan. 8, 1824, p. 57.
               Christian Deardorf to Matilda Landes, Jan. 22, 1824, p. 58.
               Isaac Miller to Jane Smith, Jan. 23, 1824, p. 59.
               James G. Davis to Jane Chenault, Feb. 3, 1824, p. 60.
               Hugh McGreer to Sally Leonard, Feb. 5, 1824, p. 61.
               Asa Toler to Isabella Bridget, Feb. 15, 1824, p. 62.
               Martha [?] Davenport to Nancy Witt, Feb. 12, 1824, p. 63.
               Thomas Cason to Amelia Elston, Feb. 10, 1824, p. 64.
               William Hand to Deborah Harris, Feb. 19, 1824, p. 65.
               Joshua Cully to Mary Hanna, Feb. 6, 1824, p. 66.
               Willis Kelly to Charity Hollingsworth, Feb. 29, 1824, p. 67.
               Robert Paxton to Mary Ann McDill, Mar. 10, 1824, p. 68.
               James Perry to Betsy Snowden, Mar. 14, 1824, p. 69.
               Henry T. Williams to Polly Stiles, Mar. 18, 1824, p. 70.
               Noah Miner to Susannah Hardman, Mar. 25, 1824, p. 71.
               John Hardy to Polly Dwiggins, Mar. 23, 1824, p. 72.
               Elisha Pelm to Sarah Hutchinson, Mar. 24, 1824, p. 73.
               Elam Kelly to Sarah Holland, Apr. 1, 1824, p. 74.
               Robert Hanna to Mary Scott, Apr. 1, 1824, p. 75.
               Adam Mason to Sarah Youse, Apr. 8, 1824 (date of license), p. 76.
               Henry Miller to Caty Seek, Apr. 15, 1824, p. 77.
               William Duncan to Elizabeth Emmert, Apr. 27, 1824, p. 78.
               John 
                            Brown
                         to Mary M. Bowlsby, May 6, 1824, p. 79.
               George C. Starbuck to Lydia Gardner, May 18, 1824, p. 80.
               David Graham to Margaret Denniston, Aug. 17, 1824, pp. 80, 92.
               
               David Denniston to Eleanor Williams, Aug. 19, 1824, pp. 80, 93.
               Asa Mills to Elizabeth Hill alias Elizabeth Peterson, June 6, 1824, p. 81.
               Nathaniel Cook to Susannah Madden, June 6, 1824, p. 82.
               John Kyle to Nancy Orr, June 15, 1824, p. 83.
               David Maquiston to Jane McDill, June 18, 1824 (date of license), p. 84.
               Isaac Leviston to Polly Ratherford, June 25, 1824, p. 85.
               Henry Waddle to Sally Sullivant, July 4, 1824, p. 86.
               James 
                            Wales
                         to Jane Haynes, July 27, 1824, p. 87.
               John Berry to Eleanor Pattern, Aug. 7, 1824, p. 88.
               John Huston to Sally Kingry, Aug. 10, 1824, p. 89.
               Smith Dubois to Rachel Krom, Aug. 14, 1824, p. 90.
               George R. Hanna to Polly Bridges, Aug. 15, 1824, p. 91.
               Simon Emmert to Mary Canaday, Aug. 31, 1824, p. 94.
               Robert Gilleland to Nancy Helmick, Sep. 7, 1824, p. 95.
               Aaron Harlan to Lucetta Conaway, Sep. 2, 1824, p. 96.
               Thomas Willis to Sally Nelson, Sep. 9, 1824, p. 97.
               Abraham Cottrel to Susanna Hilderbrand, Oct. 12, 1824, p. 98.
               David Alexander to Sarah Gott, Oct. 17, 1824, p. 99.
               James Pentecost to Nancy Debolt, Oct. 28, 1824, p. 100.
               Garrison Miner to Rebeckah Pritchard, Oct. 21, 1824, p. 101.
               Josiah Bradway to Ailsey Austin, Oct. 20, 1824, p. 102.
               
                  
                            Newton
                         Wright to Elizabeth Summey, Nov. 11, 1824, p. 103.
               Moses Robins to Elizabeth Long, Nov. 18, 1824, p. 104.
               Elisha Watts to Mariam Miner, Dec. 26, 1824, p. 105.
               Lewis R. Perdue to Elizabeth Springer, Dec. 26, 1824, p. 106.
               Jacob Snowden to Eliza Ann Langston, Dec. 22, 1824, p. 107.
               Ephraim Thomas, Jr. to Mahala Conn, Jan. 2, 1825, p. 108.
               Josiah Garrison to Aby Bowlsby, Jan. 2, 1825, p. 109.
               Isaac Williams to Polly Burk, Jan. 4, 1825, p. 110.
               David Heckman to Mary Myer, Jan. 6, 1825, p. 111.
               Squire Bell to Susanna Walker, Jan. 10, 1825, p. 112.
               Isaac Ridenour to Anne Cottrell, Feb. 12, 1825, p. 113.
               Josiah White to Elizabeth Flack, Feb. 17, 1825, p. 114.
               William Aldridge to Jane Gilliland, Feb. 19, 1825 (date of license), p. 115.
               Obed Davis to Sarah Woods, Feb. 24, 1825, p. 116.
               Joseph 
                            Brown
                         to Mary Creek, Mar. 10, 1825, p. 117.
               Daniel McIntosh to Henrietta Crouch, Mar. 29, 1825, p. 118.
               Jacob Rickenbaugh to Lacy Freeland, Mar. 13, 1825, p. 119.
               Joshua Vaneton to Rebecka Lewis, Mar. 17, 1825, p. 120.
               John Knott to Polly Chenault, Mar. 27, 1825, p. 121.
               Jacob Alexander to Issabella Kingry, Apr. 3, 1825, p. 122.
               Abel Abernathey to Jane McCullough, Apr. 7, 1825, p. 123.
               Isaac Rentfro to Judy Deboy, May 14, 1825, p. 124.
               George Fruits to Sally McKever, Apr. 13, 1825, p. 125.
               Aaron D. Bowers to Matilda Shields, May 1, 1825, p. 126.
               Joseph Jones to Mary Ann Skilman, May 21, 1825, p. 127.
               Ross Smiley to Mary Abernathey, June 9, 1825, p. 128.
               Daniel McCain to Mary Ann Wright, June 11, 1825, p. 129.
               
               Robert Bennett to Sarah Weldon, June 30, 1825, p. 130.
               John Keeney to Mary Crusan, July 12, 1825, p. 131.
               James B. Elliott to Hetty McCoy, July 21, 1825, p. 132.
               David 
                            Brown
                         to Anne Billings, July 31, 1825, p. 133.
               
                  
                            Washington
                         Rinker to Polly Hazleton, July 28, 1825, p. 134.
               Thomas I. Ferguson to Elizabeth Ferguson, Aug. 19, 1825, p. 135.
               John Dunham to Sarah Willis, Sep. 8, 1825, p. 136.
               Richard Strong to Susanny Gaby, Sep. 25, 1825, p. 137.
               John McAter to Sarah Starr, Sep. 29, 1825, p. 138.
               Isaac White to Rachel Sutton, Oct. 9, 1825, p. 139.
               Elisha Burbage to Elizabeth McNemar, Oct. 10, 1825, p. 140.
               Samuel Keffer to Elizabeth Lennen, Oct. 13, 1825, p. 141.
               Otho H. Bennett to Nancy Ferguson, Oct. 13, 1825, p. 142.
               Ebenezer McLean to Henrietta Weaver, Oct. 24, 1825, p. 143.
               Jonathan McCarn to Hannah Owens, Oct. 27, 1825, p. 144.
               Robert Walker to Mary Emmert, Nov. 7, 1825, p. 145.
               William F. Stanton to Ann Fosher, Nov. 10, 1825, p. 146.
               Moses Stinson to Rebecka Williams, Nov. 17, 1825, p. 147.
               John Gray to Nancy 
                            Brown
                            Hamilton
                        , Dec. 15, 1825, p. 148.
               Joshua Youse to Phebe Stagg, Dec. 29, 1825, p. 149.
               
                  
                            Milton
                         Knott to Catherine McNemar, Jan. 18, 1826, p. 150.
               Isaac Snider to Catherine Miller, Jan. 18, 1826, p. 151.
               George Newland to Catharine Templeton, Jan. 12, 1826, p. 152.
               
                  
                            Henderson
                         Harvey to Sally Rinker, Jan. 19, 1826, p. 153.
               Andrew Dunbar to Sarah Stover, Jan. 26, 1826, p. 154.
               John Dwiggins to Rebecca Knott, Feb. 13, 1826, p. 155.
               George Miller to Nelly Smith, Feb. 9, 1826, p. 156.
               Joel Stanly to Polly Owens, Feb. 14, 1826, p. 157.
               Stephen Holoway to Phebe Hodson, Feb. 23, 1826, p. 158.
               Benjamin Dubois to Elizabeth Wright, Mar. 7, 1826, p. 159.
               James Hasty to Sarah Sprigg, Mar. 6, 1826, p. 160.
               Samuel Witter to Caty Landes, Mar. 14, 1826, p. 161.
               Charles Keeney to Mary Beck, Mar. 23, 1826, p. 162.
               Martin Harroll to Nancy Ewing, Mar. 28, 1826, p. 163.
               Isaac Bates to Jane Shields, Mar. 30, 1826, p. 164.
               William Helmick to Jane Gilleland, Apr. 5, 1826, p. 165.
               John Moyer to Sally Hardman, Apr. 18, 1826, p. 166.
               Timothy C. Everts to Maria Holland, May 14, 1826, p. 167.
               Samuel Miller to Margaretta Scott, June 1, 1826, p. 168.
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
