
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 67, Issue 4, pages 299-382. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:67+issue:4+year:1971&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            The Fiction of Jessamyn West
            John T. Flanagan∗
            
            In 1970 Jessamyn West published Crimson Ramblers of the World, Farewell, her ninth
                    work of fiction and her twelfth book.1 Since 1945 when The Friendly
                        Persuasion appeared, she has written five books of short stories and four novels; and she
                    has contributed to such major American magazines as Harper's, the Atlantic Monthly, the Yale Review, and the New
                        Yorker, not to mention such defunct periodicals as Collier's and
                    the weekly Saturday Evening Post. One volume, Cress Delahanty,
                    was a Book-of-the-Month Club selection in 1954. Yet she has never won a Pulitzer Prize nor has her
                    work attracted substantial critical attention. Her depiction of adolescent girls, her low keyed
                    plots, her occasional preference for historical themes, and perhaps even the quiet authority of her
                    writing have deflected critics who are basically concerned with splashy techniques and perhaps the
                    more immediate social and economic problems of the day. One is reminded of Edwin Arlington
                    Robinson's reply to the stricture that his work consisted mostly of blacks and browns and
                    grays. "Those are pretty fast colors," he insisted.2 It is
                    likely that Miss West's work will reveal a durability not enjoyed by the more sensational
                    and iconoclastic writers of her time.
            Much of what Jessamyn West has written suggests her 
                        Quaker
                     heritage. Not only do practicing members of the Society of Friends frequently appear as
                    characters, but such stalwart 
                        Quaker
                     virtues as sobriety, tolerance, industry, thrift, and integrity seem to be the criteria
                    by which she judges and conceives people. She has found models for some of her characters within her
                    own family. Thus Joshua and Elizabeth Milhous, great-grandparents not only of Miss West but also of
                    President Richard Milhous Nixon, are the prototypes of two of her most memorable individuals, Jess
                    and Eliza Birdwell. Moreover, Miss West's life has been closely linked with two
                    states–Indiana and 
                        California
                    –in which Quakers appeared early and where they 
                  
                     ∗ John T. Flanagan is professor of English, University of
                                    
                        Illinois, Urbana
                     . He is the author of James Hall:
                                Literary Pioneer of the Ohio Valley
                      (1941), The
                                American Way (1953), and over 100 articles.
                  
                     1 Fiction by Jessamyn West includes The Friendly
                                Persuasion (1945), The Witch Diggers (1951), Cress
                                Delahanty (1953), Love, Death, and the Ladies' Drill
                            Team (1959), South of the Angels (1960), A Matter of
                                Time (1966), 
                                Leafy Rivers
                             (1967), Except for Me and Thee (1969), and Crimson
                                Ramblers of the World, Farewell (1970). She has also written A Mirror
                                for the Sky (1948), the libretto for an opera about John James Audubon, and an
                            autobiographical narrative, To See the Dream (1957). She has edited an
                            anthology, The 
                                    Quaker
                                 Reader (1962). Miss West's publisher is Harcourt Brace
                            Jovanovich, Inc. in 
                                New York
                            .
                  
                     2 Quoted in Jay Martin, "A Crisis of Achievement:
                            Robinson's Late Narratives," Edwin Arlington Robinson:
                                Centenary Essays, ed. Ellsworth Barnard (
                                Athens
                            , Ga., 1969), 138.
               
                    
                    
                  JESSAMYN WEST
                  
                  Jim Theologos, Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, Inc.
               
                     made notable contributions to the educational and cultural
                    growth of the commonwealth.3
            
            Jessamyn West was born twenty miles from 
                        Madison
                     in 
                        Jennings County
                    , Indiana, in 1907 but was taken as a child of six to 
                        California
                    . In later years she remembered revival services, singing, and ragtime hymns; obviously
                    the 
                        Quaker
                     atmosphere of her childhood was not necessarily a quiet one.4 She
                    grew up in 
                        Yorba Linda
                     in a region of orange groves southeast of 
                        Los Angeles
                     which had been originally settled by Quakers from Indiana. Immediately across an
                    irrigation canal lived the family of President Nixon. She recalled subsequently that
                    "Richard Nixon's father was my Sunday-school teacher and the father put into his
                    Sunday-school teaching all of the vigorous verbal polemics the son displays in
                        politics."5 A birthright 
                        Quaker
                     herself, she graduated from Whittier College, 
                        Whittier
                    , 
                        California
                    , an institution sponsored by the Society of Friends, and subsequently studied in 
                        England
                    . She then entered the University of 
                        California
                     at 
                        Berkeley
                     with the intention of taking a Ph.D. degree in English and had proceeded to the oral
                    examinations when an attack of tuberculosis disrupted further academic education. For two years she
                    was confined to a sanatorium. This experience turned her attention to writing as similar forced
                    inactivity at Gaylord Farm Sanatorium, Wallingford 
                  
                     3 Miss West's personal interest in the Quakers and their
                            history in 
                                England
                             and the 
                                United States
                             is confirmed by the book she edited in 1962, The 
                                    Quaker
                                 Reader. This volume of 523 pages with an extensive bibliography quotes
                            extensively from such famous figures as William Penn, George Pox, John Woolman, and Rufus
                            Jones and provides considerable information about 
                                Quaker
                             doctrines, customs, support of nonviolence, shrewdness in business matters, and
                            interest in educational and eleemosynary activities.
                  
                     4 Biographical information about Jessamyn West (in private life Mrs.
                            H. M. McPherson of 
                                Napa
                            , 
                                California
                            ) is scarce. See 
                                Cleveland
                             Amory, "Trade Winds," Saturday Revieiv,
                            LIII (October 24, 1970), 8; Helen Beal Woodward, "Housewife in Hollywood,"
                                ibid., XL (February 23, 1957), 19; Jessamyn West to John T. Flanagan,
                            November 3, 1969. Miscellaneous details about her life appear in Jessamyn West, To See the Dream (
                                New York
                            , 1957). Alfred S. Shivers recently published a brief bibliography of Jessamyn
                            West although, since it omits some articles and excludes all reviews, it is hardly complete.
                            See "Jessamyn West," Bulletin of Bibliography, XXVIII
                            (January-March, 1971), 1-3. Indiana University conferred an honorary degree upon Miss West
                            on June 8, 1959. The citation reads as follows: "JESSAMYN WEST, nationally
                            acclaimed novelist, imaginative writer of short short stories, inspiring teacher of young
                            writers, you are sincerely beloved in Hoosierdom for your loyalty to the state of your
                            birth. Indiana University rejoices in tribute to your literary achievements. Richly endowed
                            with uncommon talent, as perceptive and sensitive observer you have given to others of your
                            own insights into the American scene. Today we welcome you into further fellowship with the
                            degree DOCTOR OF HUMANE LETTERS."
                  
                     5
                            To See the Dream, 131. President Nixon is also aware of the close link
                            between his family and Indiana. On June 24, 1971, he made a special trip to Vernon in order
                            to dedicate a plaque commemorating the birthplace of his mother, Hannah Milhous Nixon. Mrs.
                            Nixon was born on a farm in 1885 four and one half miles southeast of Butlerville in Bigger
                            Township. 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, June 25, 1971, Section 1, p. 3.
               
                    
                    
                        Connecticut
                    , made a dramatist out of Eugene O'Neill.6 Indeed she once
                    remarked that she compulsively took the horizontal rather than the vertical approach to writing.7
            
            Certainly Miss West's own illness and the knowledge that cancer had taken the lives of
                    several grandparents as well as her father and mother enabled her later to speak sympathetically of
                    protracted and severe illness.8 Such a book as A Matter of
                    Time (1966), which deals sensitively with a woman's choice of suicide rather than to
                    submit to the senseless suffering of a rapidly growing and inoperable tumor, probably could not have
                    been written without the author's personal experience of hospital life.
            In the early 1940s Miss West began to contribute short stories to such periodicals as the Atlantic Monthly; and a collection of them loosely spliced into a longer
                    narrative, The Friendly Persuasion, became an immediate success. Miss West later
                    spent some months on location in Hollywood helping to convert the book into a motion picture. When
                    it was finally produced with 
                        Gary
                     Cooper playing the leading role of Jess Birdwell and Dorothy McGuire that of Eliza
                    Birdwell it was widely acclaimed.9 Indeed one of Miss West's most
                    recent books, Except for Me and Thee (1969), reverts to the story of the
                    Birdwells, the 
                        Quaker
                     rural couple whose quiet life won so many readers for the author a quarter of a century
                        ago.10
            
            Geographically Miss West's fiction is divided somewhat inequitably between the two states
                    with which she is linked personally. Four books deal with Indiana, three with 
                        California
                    ; the latter state is also the locale of the miscellaneous short stories in Love, Death, and the Ladies' Drill Team (1959) and the recent Crimson Ramblers of the
                    
                  
                     6 Louis Sheaffer, O'Neill: Son and
                            Playwright (
                                Boston
                            , 1968), 245-57. Sheaffer writes, "It was at Gaylord that Eugene
                            O'Neill decided to write for the theater, or, more precisely, that he finally
                            became aware of a decision he had unconsciously made long before" (p. 252).
                  
                     7 Quoted in Edward Weeks, "Books: The Peripatetic
                            Reviewer," Atlantic Monthly, CCXX (December, 1967), 130.
                  
                     8 Webster Schott, "A Gentle Storyteller Challenges
                            Death," Life, LXI (October 21, 1966), 8. This is a review of A Matter of Time.
                  
                  
                     9 The film, The Friendly Persuasion, directed by
                            William Wyler, was released by Allied Artists Pictures Corporation in 1956. Michael Wilson
                            was originally engaged to write the screen play but subsequently Robert Wyler and Miss West
                            herself were called to Hollywood for the purpose. Because of the tangle of authorship no
                            credit was given to any scriptwriter when the picture was first shown. Miss West wrote her
                            version of what happened during her Hollywood sojourn in the subjective and impressionistic
                            volume To See the Dream. See also the succinct account of the
                            author's relations with the cinema world and the screenplay writers'
                            controversy in Elizabeth Poe, "Credits and Oscars," The
                                Nation, CLXXXIV (March 30, 1957), 267-69.
                  
                     10
                            Except for Me and Thee is subtitled A Companion to The
                                Friendly Persuasion. Apparently there are to be no more stories about the Indiana
                            Quakers. At least the author wrote in a personal letter, "Thats [sic] the end of
                            the 
                                Quaker
                             line for me." Jessamyn West to John T. Flanagan, November 29,
                        1969.
               
                    
                    World, Farewell. Chronologically a similar division is apparent. The four Indiana
                    volumes are all set in the nineteenth century although it is true that The Witch
                        Diggers (1951) begins on Christmas Day, 1899, and spills over into the following year. The
                    other three Indiana books take place in pre-Civil War days and are localized in the southeastern
                    section of the state in which 
                        Madison
                    , Vernon, and 
                        Connersville
                     are focal points. On the contrary, the 
                        California
                     novels are twentieth century narratives. Miss West's longest and most
                    ambitious novel, South of the Angels (1960), is a panoramic account of the
                    subdividing and settlement of a tract of land located in the neighborhood of Anaheim. The
                    transformation of the rolling barley fields into citrus groves, a story repeated more than once in
                    the historical development of Orange County, is as authentic history as Miss West's account
                    in Except for Me and Thee of the operation of the Underground Railroad in 
                        Jennings County
                    , Indiana.11
            
            A good deal of Miss West's fiction has appeared in magazines, and some of the earlier
                    stories remain uncollected. Her habit has been to select sufficient stories or sketches and to
                    arrange them in chronological order to form such books as Cress Delahanty and Except for Me and Thee. Despite the absence of transitions from story to story the
                    reappearance of the protagonists and even of some of the minor characters provides a superficial
                    coherence which can substitute, at times quite effectively, for genuine plot development. But rarely
                    is there a strong dramatic interest, or a narrative which gradually evolves and develops in
                    intensity until a climax is reached. Even where the author from the outset apparently conceived of
                    her story as a structural whole rather than as a grouping of disjunctive episodes, her habit of
                    concentrating on scenes and sketches contravenes artistic unity. Indeed one might argue that her
                    major limitation as a novelist is her lack of firm structure.
            There are, to be sure, several books in which Miss West clearly wrestled with the problem of
                    structure. In A Matter of Time, a chronicle of the Murphy family, it is the
                    relationship between the sisters Tasmania and Blix which provides the backbone of the novel. The
                    Murphy family is presented in fragmentary episodes. Orland Murphy, originally from 
                        Kentucky
                    , is inept and somewhat of a tinkerer; his wife Maude strives to hold the family
                    together but is neither sharply aware of nor sympathetic with the world around her. The Christmas
                    reunion of the children is convivial, but in this 
                        California
                     Quakerish household there is no Christmas tree, no crib, no churchgoing. Both 
                  
                     11 "Neighbors," the longest story in the book (pp.
                            137-210), concerns Jess Birdwell's role in helping fugitive slaves avoid recapture
                            by southern slaveowners.
               
                     sisters have sexual adventures and both marry; Blix is the more
                    sensual and the more impulsive, Tassie (short for Tasmania) the more intellectual. Blix'
                    ailment, a malignant intestinal tumor, draws the sisters together, and much of the novel focuses on
                    Blix' sick bed with Tassie alternately ministering to the wants of her dying sister and
                    recalling past experiences. Eventually a plan develops: when Blix reaches the point of being unable
                    or unwilling to endure further pain, she will kill herself with an overdose of pills which her
                    physician has conveniently provided. Thus A Matter of Time does build up to a
                    conclusion and stops abruptly with Blix' death.
            In South of the Angels, a sprawling novel of 564 pages, Miss West has provided a
                    huge cast, so numerous indeed that one reviewer suggested that a reader would benefit from a list of
                    dramatis personae.12 In all some seventeen fairly important characters are
                    introduced, described, interwoven with the events of the novel. But the artistic method of shifting
                    back and forth among them leaves the reader puzzled to the end as to which figure is meant to be the
                    protagonist. The technique utilized here is reminiscent of John Dos Passos' U.S.A. trilogy in the days when such labels as the breadthwise novel were employed.13 Thus the story opens with the introduction of Syl Perkins and his wife, Syl
                    being the promoter of a land scheme which will attract immigrants and produce citrus crops providing
                    that adequate water is available. But after the first section of chapter one Perkins vanishes for
                    almost a hundred pages and he seldom reappears thereafter. In the meanwhile the stage is filled with
                    others: Tom Mount, carpenter and itinerant lecher; the Mexican couple Pete and Rosa; the Shel Lewis
                    family; Basil Cudlip, inveterate hater of Negroes and Mexicans and paradigm of the Old South; Lute
                    Cope, newspaper editor, and his somewhat less than faithful wife, Indiana Rose Cope; Asa Brice,
                    described in Thoreau-like terms but not endowed with 
                        Henry
                     David Thoreau's intellectuality; the widow Opal Tetford and the spinster
                    schoolteacher Eunice Fry, both seduced and jilted by Tom Mount; the old line Quakers Wendlin and
                    Mary Jessup; the self-named preacher LeRoy Raunce, who yields to the demands of the flesh more than
                    a 
                        Quaker
                     should; and of course the younger people, Medora Cudlip, Press Cope, Chad Lewis. Almost
                    anyone of these persons could have served the author as a central character; instead the narrative
                    moves from one to another, from episode to episode, without sequence or apparent direction, save
                    that the absence of water works 
                  
                     12 Edward Weeks, "The Atlantic Bookshelf: The Peripatetic
                            Reviewer," Atlantic Monthly, CCVI (July, 1960), 96.
                  
                     13
                     U.S.A., collected in 1938, includes The 42nd Parallel (1930), 1919 (1932), and The Big
                                Money (1936).
               
                     a hardship on the orchard growers, romances between unlikely
                    couples blossom, and births and deaths occur. Also there is a long flashback to explain Eunice
                    Fry's affair with Tom Mount in 
                        Fort Collins
                    , 
                        Colorado
                    , although it took place two years before the settlement of the tract began. The story
                    pattern is like a broken line in one's palm; life somehow continues but in leaps and bounds
                    and even pauses. South of the Angels has considerable merit as a piece of fiction
                    but its narrative appeal is slight. The characters too often seem to get out of hand.
            Probably 
                        Leafy Rivers
                     (1967) is Miss West's most successful book structurally, but it too is complicated by
                    the intentional alternation of place and time. The novel is set in 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana about 1818 and deals with the Converse family, 
                        Quaker
                     farmers. Leafy (born Mary Pratt Converse but nicknamed Leafy because of her habit of
                    saying "I'd just as lief") marries Reno Rivers, a
                    young rural schoolmaster, and they begin married life in the Whitewater Valley
                    of southeastern Indiana. Reno is even less successful as a farmer than as a rural pedagogue; he
                    raises hogs on rented land and dreams of prosperity; but, when he falls sick, it is Leafy who takes
                    command and sees that the hogs reach the 
                        Cincinnati
                     market. En route to the meat packing center Leafy falls in with an attractive young
                    drover Cashie Wade, accepts his hospitality, and sleeps with him in his peripatetic hog hospital.
                    Pregnant as a result of this liaison Leafy returns to the Converse home in 
                        Ohio
                     to have her child. The story of the novel is basically Leafy's life as she
                    remembers it while awaiting motherhood. Scenes of the Converse home, with the father Bass retaining
                    the habits and principles of 
                        Philadelphia
                     Quakerdom and the older son Chancellor trying to express his yen for acting and
                    preaching, alternate with glimpses of Leafy at school, repeating the eighth grade because her
                    parents could not afford to send her elsewhere. Other scenes intermingle Leafy's 
                        Ohio
                     bedroom with visions of the Indiana homestead in the woods where Reno struggles half
                    heartedly with farm work. Finally Leafy remembers the hog safari to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , how she maneuvered the herd past a nest of copperhead snakes which the sows cheerfully
                    trampled on and ate, and how she ferried the animals across a river. As the time of her delivery
                    approaches, Leafy's present situation increasingly dominates past memories; and despite the
                    inept obstetrician who virtually flees from the sickroom, Leafy gives birth to a healthy girl. Thus
                    the heroine's marriage and pregnancy provide the enveloping action for the entire story.
            But even if the narrative thrust of 
                        Leafy Rivers
                     is not always satisfactory, the novel like the rest of Miss West's fiction has other
                         strong merits. Conspicuous among her artistic achievements
                    is a magnificent sense of place. The Converse farm and the Indiana woods cabin where Leafy and Reno
                    try to make a go of marriage, the suburban home on the edge of the 
                        California
                     desert in which Blix Murphy awaits death, the ranch house where Cress Delahanty
                    experiences the qualms and joys of adolescence, the undeveloped tract of South of the
                        Angels with its dry washes, irrigation ditches, and brown arid hills are all vividly
                    depicted, presented with carefully selected details and a constant awareness of light and sound. The
                    county poor farm in The Witch Diggers is almost a character in its own right, with
                    the fields that must be kept productive, the stock that must be made to multiply, and the shabby
                    buildings where the pitiful inmates bicker and complain and tattle about their trivial jealousies.
            The reader recalls smaller scenes too. Eliza Birdwell in The Friendly Persuasion
                    goes to court in a successful endeavor to retrieve her wayward goose Samantha and insists that
                    Samantha can be identified by her gait; she is a goose which can pace." There is the shabby
                    hotel in 
                        Madison
                     to which Cate Conboy in The Witch Diggers flees in misery, hoping to
                    escape a disappointing love affair and the revelation of an unexpected family skeleton.15 Earlier in the same novel there is the sociable (the local term for it is
                    play party) held at the Wesley Cope house, where on a hot August evening nothing stronger than
                    lemonade is served, but the guests promenade to "Skip to My Lou" and later sing
                    "King William was King James' son, Up from the royal race did come"
                    before dancing stops and banana ice cream and coconut cake appear.16 A quite
                    different scene, more comic than most of Miss West's, shows Cress Delahanty, having
                    badgered her father into allowing her to purchase an extravagant hat for beach wear, parading up and
                    down a 
                        California
                     boardwalk. But Cress gets tired, stops to rest near an aquarium, and suddenly sees her
                    precious hat slowly settling into the water, which quickly turns a flamingo red from the dye in the
                    hat's ornaments. The crowning humiliation to Cress is the insistence of the proprietor of
                    the aquarium that Mr. Delahanty pay for the fish which Cress' hat has supposedly
                    poisoned."
            Part of Miss West's success in realizing such scenes derives from her control of the
                    physical locale and her use of authentic and specific colors and objects. The forests of early
                    Indiana are not just collections of trees but are full of sycamores and gums, of willows and
                    beeches. The underbrush includes sarviceberries and shadbush, fox 
                  
                     14 "The Pacing Goose," The Friendly
                                Persuasion, 29-46.
                  
                     15
                            The Witch Diggers, 312-21.
                  
                     16
                     Ibid., 26-39.
                  
                     17
                     Cress Delahanty, 63-75.
               
                     grapes come in profusion in the fall, there is sassafras for
                    those who know how to brew tea, squirrels and copperheads haunt the woods. In 
                        California
                    , on the other hand, the flora include eucalyptus and umbrella trees, palms and
                    jacarandas, cactus and poppies. Farmers begin to raise sweet potatoes and peanuts instead of barley.
                    Towhees, hawks, and buzzards fly overhead, and quail run along swales. The aroma of four
                    o'clocks, zinnias, and bougainvillea supplements the fragrance of orange blossoms.
                    Tarantulas and centipedes appear on the floors of the settlers' houses; horned toads, pack
                    rats, and an occasional bobcat populate the arroyos. Nor is this local color obtrusive. The Indiana
                    and 
                        California
                     backgrounds fit naturally into the story, providing both a backdrop and a proscenium
                    for the narrative action.
            The characters of Miss West's fiction form a diversified and well defined group with some
                    basic similarities.18 In the novels about early Indiana they are of necessity
                    rural and are often pioneer settlers. Towns play a small role since the interest is concentrated on
                    the farm home, occasional barn raisings or quilting bees, the camp meeting, the country school, the
                    tasks of field or kitchen. Indeed the reader is often reminded of the genre pictures in such novels
                    of Edward Eggleston as The Hoosier Schoolmaster (1871) and Roxy
                    (1878). Miss West's Hoosiers are farmers or nurserymen, stock raisers, rural pedagogues or
                    physicians, itinerant peddlers, exhorters or backwoods preachers. Jess Birdwell in The
                        Friendly Persvnsion peddles nursery stock throughout southern Indiana; Odis Korby in The Witch Diggers is an undertaker, furniture salesman, and feed merchant; Link
                    Con-boy in the same book is a country lawyer who took over the poor farm in the hope that he could
                    support his family more comfortably; Simon Yanders in 
                        Leafy Rivers
                     was a homesteader and hog raiser who lost interest in such occupations after his wife died and
                    thus became the local sheriff.
            In the 
                        California
                     novels the occupations differ somewhat but the social level and the economic focus show
                    no substantial change. Citrus ranches, which produce oranges and lemons, substitute for the
                        Ohio Valley homesteads where corn and hogs and fruit trees are raised. The
                    subsistence farmer is still common although he is not so labeled; the log cabin or unpainted frame
                    dwelling has been replaced by the ranch house; the children find school a location for peripheral
                        
                  
                     18 Miss West, like Sinclair Lewis, has a fondness for unfamiliar and
                            unusual personal names. In addition to such figures as Odis Korby, Tasmania Murphy, Indiana
                            Rose Cope, Opal Tetford, and Simon Yanders, the reader will meet minor characters with such
                            appellations as the following: Prill (short for Aprilla) Converse, Dr. Junius Daubenhyer,
                            Venese Lucey, Leathy Wade, Doss Whitt, Airey Creagan, Floy Oates, Swan Stebeney, Laban
                            Birdwell, Dr. Horace Chooney, Persis Hughes, Arod Johnson, 
                                Missouri
                             Overfield, Merlin Webster, and many others.
               
                     activities such as athletics, picnics, and dramatic and musical
                    events; the women attend PTA meetings and supervise bake sales and raffles. Instead of backwoods
                    hired hands there are itinerant fruit pickers, largely Mexicans, and oil drillers, textbook
                    salesmen, seaside resort fry cooks, fish peddlers, and piano tuners. Occasional scenes take place in
                    small towns and there are references to restaurants, high schools, movie houses, and town halls
                    placed conveniently over hardware stores or funeral establishments. But Miss West is not interested
                    in the sophistication, or the crime and violence, of the big city. Only a few characters in South of the Angels and A Matter of Time ever get to 
                        Los Angeles
                     despite the proximity of the southern 
                        California
                     metropolis to their homes. The author's focus of concern remains the country,
                    no longer the lush forests of the Ohio Valley, where the big butts scarcely
                    allow the sunlight to filter to the forest floor, but rather arroyos and brown hills and desert land
                    parched for much of the year until a wind from the sierras brings coolness and flowers
                    simultaneously.
            It must be admitted that Miss West is not always successful or convincing in her depiction of male
                    characters. The husbands in A Matter of Time are vague background figures who
                    barely impinge on the reader's attention, even as Orland Murphy seems the most incompetent
                    and abstracted member of his family. Reno Rivers is inept and vacillating; his
                    attraction for Leafy can be explained only on the grounds that there was no available rival for a
                    young girl determined to leave home. Christie Fraser, the putative hero of The Witch
                        Diggers, seems uncertain and evasive when direct action is called for and is even allowed
                    to drop out of the story for several long chapters. Tom Mount in South of the
                    Angels is the conventional philanderer and woman chaser; he has only to look at a female to
                    insure a conquest. Cress Delahanty's father is oddly tolerant and protective even when his
                    adolescent and quirky daughter goes from one strange kick to another.
            Some of the men in South of the Angels, to be sure, have stronger outlines. The
                    real estate promoter Syl Perkins is an amiable shyster whom Miss West makes an error in not
                    developing further. Lute Cope, despite being imposed upon by both his daughter and his wife, has a
                    certain individuality which also might have been given further exposition. Basil Cudlip's
                    willingness to take the law into his own hands, especially if his prospective victim is dark
                    skinned, suggests that the mentality of the Old South can be transferred all too easily to southern 
                        California
                    . And LeRoy Raunce, a combination of artisan and self-taught preacher, is a figure
                    relatively well known in the vast amorphous region south of the angels.
            
            As one might expect, Miss West's best drawn men are the Quakers, whose firm virtues she can
                    sincerely admire and whose peccadilloes and gentle stubbornness she can review with smiling
                    tolerance. Wendlin Jessup, helplessly watching his wife battle futilely against death, is admirably
                    calm and self-controlled. His son Benjamin will certainly do credit to the Society of Friends which
                    he hopes to serve. Bass Converse, surprisingly unyielding in his role of local despot even in
                    pioneer 
                        Ohio
                    , will attend camp meetings although he is reluctant to testify, dislikes the fuss and
                    decoration that Christmas brings to the homes of his neighbors, but on many occasions fumbles with a
                    French harp. He will play camp meeting hymns without conviction.
            Above all there is Jess Birdwell, the hero of two books or, more properly, of a number of loosely
                    connected short stories. Born in 
                        Ohio
                     the youngest of nine children, Jess is slow to make a start in the world but eventually
                    after becoming "engaged" to three girls simultaneously decides to marry Eliza
                    Cope, a female 
                        Quaker
                     preacher, and with her migrates to a spot a few miles beyond Vernon in 
                        Jennings County
                    , near the valley of the Muscatatuck River.19 A
                    red headed Irish 
                        Quaker
                     who is both stubborn and resolute, Jess retains his plain speech, his directness, and
                    his aversion to fancy dress, oaths, Christmas gifts, and of course liquor. Jess is industrious and
                    persistent; he also has a green thumb and soon becomes a well known nurseryman in the region
                    contiguous to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . His knowledge of back country roads stands him in good stead when he becomes involved
                    in helping fugitive slaves and avoiding difficulties with the authorities. But Jess is not
                    completely a paragon of virtue. He cannot disguise his innate love of music and insists on placing
                    an organ in the attic of his house. Nor can he ever overcome his love for fast horses. He takes
                    considerable satisfaction in being able to drive a 
                        Morgan
                     mare which can outpace the big black stallion owned by a Methodist preacher named
                    Marcus Augustus Godly.20 Certainly Jess Birdwell is one of the most attractive
                    characters in recent American fiction.
            With her females Miss West is almost consistently successful. Among the older women Eliza Birdwell,
                    Lib Conboy, Tassie Murphy, and Eunice Fry have special vitality. Jess Birdwell's wife, even
                    more of a dyed-in-the-wool 
                        Quaker
                     than her husband, is a competent cook, nurse, seamstress, and housewife; she preserves
                    the second person singular in her speech and is not only devoted to her family but humane to others.
                    The wounded lad from John Hunt Morgan's raiders who is 
                  
                     19
                            Except for Me and Thee, 3-69.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 211-31. The chapter is appropriately entitled "Fast
                            Horseflesh."
               
                     brought to the Birdwell farmhouse gets as much care from Eliza
                    as her own children would expect.21 But Eliza is also a recorded 
                        Quaker
                     minister who, despite years of marriage, never forgets her early training as an
                    exhorter. Lib Conboy, mistress of the county poor farm, is by turns a slattern and an actress; she
                    strives to run the home and also to control her family but is wholly successful in neither attempt.
                    Tassie Murphy, by turns confidante and nurse to her younger sister Blix, is more introspective and
                    analytical than most of Miss West's women. She is the voice of the family as well as the
                    narrator of the story. She also shares the bookish interests of the author, and her choice of
                    reading–the Bronte sisters, Elinor Wylie, T. E. Shaw, E. E. Cummings, F. Scott
                    Fitzgerald–is probably to some extent Miss West's. Although she is a
                    professional librarian rather than a writer, Tassie's literary interests distinguish her
                    further from the other fictional women. Eunice Fry, the 
                        Colorado
                     schoolteacher who desperately wants a man, is naive in her conviction that she is the
                    only woman approached by Tom Mount and more than a little reckless in her quick surrender to him.
                    Subsequently her mixed devotion and resentment lead her to ambivalent actions which in the
                    circumstances do not seem unexpected.
            Miss West's most engaging portraits, however, are the adolescent girls, the young women
                    reaching out for emotional and economic security, whose lives are strange juxtapositions of
                    embarrassment, humiliation, surprise, and minor triumph. Leafy Rivers, Cress
                    Delahanty, Emma and Cate Conboy are plausible and vibrant individuals, facing life with curiosity
                    and eagerness, determined to establish their identities and to share the experiences of maturity.
            
               Leafy Rivers' life is shown in retrospect since she is expecting her
                    first child, and a series of flashbacks reviews her past years. But her adolescent days at home, her
                    sessions in the country school where she first met and admired Reno, social gatherings and
                    festivities, the trek to the Indiana backwoods, her life in the forest cabin until she single
                    handedly drove the hogs to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , these are realized clearly and specifically. At the end of her chronicle Leafy emerges
                    as a young woman who knows her own mind and is determined, in Hoosier parlance, to "get
                    shut of" her nickname. As Edward Weeks points out, there can be "no doubt of the
                    girl's courage and willpower."22
            
            Cress Delahanty, on the other hand, is younger and more girlish. She is presented as growing from
                    twelve to sixteen through a series of crushes and humiliations. At the beginning of the book she has
                        
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., 254-76.
                  
                     22 Weeks, "Books: The Peripatetic Reviewer,"
                        132.
               
                     just knocked out one of the teeth of her boy friend Edwin in a
                    too vigorous effort to shield him from injury. Later she becomes his rival in memorizing lines from
                    Virgil in a school Latin play and buys the fantastic beach hat which had such a deplorable end.
                    Above everything else Cress wants to be an individual with a glamorous personality. Honesty and
                    kindness and cheerfulness she admits to be desirable traits but denies that they have much utility
                    in becoming popular, so she decides to be known as crazy. And when wearing bedroom slippers and
                    carrying her shoes in her hand she rushes out of the house to meet the school bus, claiming that in
                    this way she can save a few minutes of valuable time, her act begins a reputation for eccentricity.
                    Cress is superstitious and naive. She counts white horses, tea leaves, bridges, mules, and one eyed
                    cars. She becomes aware of signs and portents. A pointed elbow denotes a sour disposition, a
                    sweating glass prophesies rain, if you laugh before breakfast you will certainly cry before dinner.
                    She copies beautiful lilting phrases from Shelley and dreams of boyish lovers although she manages
                    to convey to her parents the notion that she is not interested in the other sex. When her story ends
                    leaving her at sixteen, she is still immature and unaware of a liaison which an older female friend
                    is having immediately under her eyes.23
            
            The Conboy sisters also reveal Miss West's admirable command of the psychology of
                    adolescence. Emma, going into her teens, is skinny, unattractive, and brash. To simulate the
                    appearance of hair although she has not reached puberty, she jabs burned matches into her arm pits.
                    She is intentionally candid and at times impertinent. Once she strips off her clothes before a
                    surprised male inhabitant of the poor farm so that he can view a female form rather than depending
                    on pictures of underwear cut out from mail order catalogues. Cate Conboy, eccentrically spelling her
                    name with a capital C, uses other means to attract attention. When Christie Fraser courts her, he
                    takes her on an excursion across the Ohio River to the far state of 
                        Kentucky
                     and also to hear an Orpheus Club concert at 
                        Madison
                    ; Cate considers this experience to be the height of sophistication. Marriage is all but
                    assured when Cate suddenly learns that her father Link Conboy has not been strictly faithful to her
                    mother in the past. This 
                  
                     23 Frederic I. Carpenter in "The Adolescent in American
                            Fiction," English Journal, XLVI (September, 1957), 313-19, points
                            out that it is more difficult to tell effectively "the story of a normal and
                            successful heroine" than to narrate a tragic story and calls Cress Delahanty
                            "the typical adolescent American girl" (pp. 317-18). W. Tasker Witham
                            remarks in The Adolescent in the American Novel, 1920-1960 (
                                New York
                            , 1964) that Miss West was highly successful in describing Cress
                            Delahanty's infatuation with an older man and praises her dramatic presentation of
                            "a very unusual but quite believable girl" (p. 43).
               
                     knowledge Cate finds devastating. With such a stain on the
                    family-reputation she finds she cannot honestly wed Christie and impulsively jilts him. Acting with
                    similar abandon she accepts the hand of a neighboring boy whom she had heretofore scorned and by
                    this vicarious expiation insures her future unhappiness. Like Cress Dela-hanty she is wounded by
                    life, but she is older than Cress and after the wedding there is no reprieve.
            
               Leafy Rivers, Cress Delahanty, and Cate Conboy are not shown as dramatic figures
                    engaged in sensational actions. Rather the reader is interested in their day to day activities, in
                    their petty disappointments and desires. In terms of years their stories are short. But their
                    personalities are established by the author's careful selection of details and her
                    sympathetic understanding of their whims and frustrations. There is no adolescent boy in Miss
                    West's fiction who achieves equal distinction. But when she writes of the young girl
                    growing up in a domestic environment and first trying out her fledgling powers, she is on firm
                        ground.24
            
            Miss West is equally successful in her command of language, the colloquial diction of the backwoods
                    and the farm as well as the use of striking analogies and similes. Much of this mastery is the
                    result of her Indiana heritage and her Scotch-Irish legacy. She once wrote of her grandmother:
                    "She was Irish and Hoosier before she was a 
                        Quaker
                    , and she had picturesque ways of saying things: When she was warm she was
                    ‘hot as a little red wagon’; when she cleaned, she ‘cleaned like
                    fighting a fire.’ Disorder ‘made hell look like a lightning bug.’
                    When she died it was, to use her own words, ‘like the stopping of running
                        water.’"25 Family tradition preserved dialectal or
                    archaic terms because of their unique appropriateness or their sound. Indeed some
                    of the locutions employed by Miss West linger in Indiana today, as any traveler in the counties
                    adjacent to the Ohio River can testify from experience. Miss West never
                    deliberately studied the ordinary speech of an earlier period, as Conrad Richter pored over
                    newspapers, diaries, and letters of colonial 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to give authenticity of dialogue in his chronicle of settlement in the Ohio
                        Valley.26 But she 
                  
                     24 Other well drawn adolescent girls are Elizabeth Prescott and Bllie
                            Courtney, heroines of "Crimson Ramblers of the World, Farewell" and
                            "Live Life Deeply," in Crimson Ramblers of the World,
                                Farewell.
                  
                  
                     25
                            To See the Dream, 8.
                  
                     26 Conrad Richter's distinguished trilogy about life in the
                            early Ohio Valley includes The Trees (1940), The Fields (1946), and The Town (1950); the last novel
                            was awarded a Pulitzer Prize. Richter took great pains to reconstruct the colloquial
                            language of a century and a half ago and to employ the localisms and archaisms presumably
                            characteristic of the Scotch-Irish settlers. See John T. Flanagan, "Folklore in the
                            Novels of Conrad Richter," Midwest Folklore, II (
                                Spring
                            , 1952), 5-14; John T. Flanagan, "Conrad Richter: Romancer of the
                            Southwest," Southwest Review, XLIII (Summer, 1958),
                        189-96.
               
                     did consult dialect dictionaries and such works as John Russell
                    Bartlett's Dictionary of Americanisms in order to verify usages she had
                    learned at home.27
            
            Colloquialisms and archaisms appear more frequently in the Indiana books than in those set in 
                        California
                    . Characters are "dauncy" or "feisty" or act
                    "meechin'." When Jess Birdwell is impatient, he falls into a
                    "swivet" while his horses suddenly become "notionate" and plod
                    along. On the other hand, Jess' recently purchased steed is "a two-ended horse,
                    head up and tail over the dashboard." Farmers who need no stimulus to work in the fields
                    are called "work-brickel" although when fatigued and thirsty they seek solace in
                    the "switchel jug." But those who soldier on the job or are easy marks are
                    "born poke-easys." The frontier housewife is careful to "redd
                    up" the house even though the cabin might be no "great shakes."
                        Leafy Rivers' hogs chomp and squeal and "wowsle"
                    around. When her husband suffers from a boil, he has a "rising," an affliction
                    which makes him feel "bodacious." Babies begotten without benefit of clergy are
                    known as "wood's colts" while the natives of the backwoods, like Conrad
                    Richter's Luckett family, are "woodsies." Nonconformist youths live a
                    "chancy" life and cannot always escape a family "ruckus" while
                    fugitive slaves are "cobbed." Both a cow and a boy could be called
                    "breachy." One could be knocked "si-goggling" or headed
                    "si-goggling" in another direction.28
            
            Perhaps the flavor of Miss West's rural idiom can best be conveyed by a speech made by Odis
                    Korby in The Witch Diggers where 
                  
                     27 John Russell Bartlett, Dictionary of Americanisms. A
                                Glossary of Words and Phrases Usually Regarded as Peculiar to the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1848). Subsequent editions appeared in 1859 and 1860, and the fourth edition (
                                Boston
                            , 1877) was very much enlarged. Miss West disclaims any linguistic scholarship
                            although she admits that dialect dictionaries fascinate her. She once outlined the
                            requirements for anyone wishing to know the language she employed in her Hoosier fiction:
                            "I think, to know the words I know, a person would need (1) to have been born in
                            Southern Indiana. (2) Have parents with a Scotch-Irish background. (3) Have a mother who
                            loved words, used them in quotation marks in her speech, because she has once heard them and
                            they delighted her. (4) Have a young mother in 
                                California
                             homesick for the hills of Southern Indiana." Jessamyn West to John T.
                            Flanagan, November 3, 1969.
                  
                     28 References for the paragraph follow in order using abbreviated
                            titles and page numbers: dauncy, 
                        Leafy Rivers, 225,
                            232, 247, 292, Friendly Persuasion, 38, 127, 158, Except for
                                Me and Thee, 106, 216, 270; feisty, 
                        Leafy
                            Rivers, 206, 290, Except for Me and Thee, 95, 172;
                            meechin', Except for Me and Thee, 149, 260, 297; swivet, Except for Me and Thee, 253, 
                        Leafy
                                Rivers, 137; notionate, Except for Me and Thee, 227,
                                Friendly Persuasion, 133, 138; two ended horse, Except
                                for Me and Thee, 213; work-brickel, Friendly Persuasion, 3, 138,
                                Except for Me and Thee, 235; switchel jug, Except for Me
                                and Thee, 235; poke-easy, 
                        Leafy Rivers, 144,
                            249; redd up, 
                        Leafy Rivers, 123; great shakes, 
                        Leafy Rivers, 110; wowsle, 
                        Leafy Rivers, 232; rising, 
                        Leafy
                                    Rivers, 141, 142; bodacious, 
                        Leafy
                                Rivers, 228; wood's colts, 
                        Leafy
                                Rivers, 259, Except for Me and Thee, 63; woodsies, 
                        Leafy Rivers, 98; chancy, Except for Me
                                and Thee, 25; ruckus, Except for Me and Thee, 13; cobbed, Except for Me and Thee, 152; breachy, 
                        Leafy
                                Rivers, 4; si-goggling, Friendly Persuasion, 149, 
                        Leafy Rivers, 17, 112.
               
                     the Hoosier undertaker and feed merchant attempts to give
                    Christie Fraser some advice.
            
                    "Have big thoughts, son. … Plan big, but act meechin. Look what happened to
                        our Lord. He got to acting biggity. Took to cussing hogs and blasting fig-trees. I'd be
                        the last to fault him for it, understand. Send me down to earth under like circumstances, doves
                        flapping around my ears and dead fish multiplying when I say the word, and I reckon I'd
                        make an equally poor out-of-it. No, no, the poor boy never had a fair chance. Carried around on
                        a chip from the beginning till he finally had to advertise everything in stud-horse type.
                        Couldn't keep his voice down. Had to give them the word with the bark on it every time
                        he opened his mouth.["]29
               
                
            But it is not only the wealth of colloquial and diurnal diction which impresses the reader of Miss
                    West's fiction. Equally vivid and original is her figurative language, often exemplified by
                    surprising similes taken from ordinary life and observation. A creek is "as pliable and
                    sinuous as a fat summer snake." One of the inmates of the poor farm complains, "It
                    goes against my grain always seeing the squeaking wheel get the grease." Leafy
                        Rivers, riding two on a horse behind her brother and clinging to him, finds that
                    "His thin waist, beneath her hands, tingled like a pump handle when the water begins to
                    climb." On a fall day in the Ohio Valley "Blue haze, like
                    ribbon through the eyelets of a bodice, was laced between the trees on the horizon." On the
                    main street of a 
                        California
                     town "A black cat passed below, its blackness not even skin-deep, for its
                    hair, windblown, exposed a skin as white as that of any butcher-shop rabbit." In an Orange
                    County hamlet cicadas "were stitching their sewing-machine song." Tassie Murphy
                    observes that in Palm Springs "the exposed haunches of Midwestern matrons show, before the
                    leather is tanned, expanses of baby-bottom heat rash." Amid the extreme desert heat
                    "A few wispy mare's tails tarnished the blue metal sky." The Raunce cow,
                    tied to a stake in the backyard, was "surrounded by straw like a prospective
                    martyr." Ellen Lewis wandering toward her brother's tent at night finds that the
                    sky "was pricked like a colander with stars." The rag carpet in a desert house was
                    difficult to keep anchored down but "was filled with rolling swells, like a pot of
                    corn-meal mush coming to a boil." Lute Cope, puzzling about his wife's behavior,
                    remembers that some women take their sex like men, "threshing around like beached catfish,
                    unable to live or die." Outside the Raunce house on the tract there were "blue
                    four-o'clocks trained up cord strings at one end of the porch like notes on a
                        zither."30
            
            Miss West is sensitive to proverbs too and uses them appropriately 
                  
                     29
                            The Witch Diggers, 42.
                  
                     30 References for the quotations follow in order using abbreviated
                            titles and 
               
                     and often. More than one character relies on a proverb to
                    express his attitude or his philosophy, and the maxim is more revealing than several sentences of
                    dialogue. Shel Lewis, depressed by his own experience in trying to better himself, concludes that he
                    was the man caught in the proverbial dilemma, between the devil and the deep blue sea. The Raunce
                    household was unpredictable, certainly not a dwelling where there was a place for everything and
                    everything in its place. Basil Cudlip, the biased southerner, doesn't like mulattoes; to
                    him Negroes should be the real article, all wool and a yard wide. A farmer planting corn remembers
                    the old adage, "Three to grow and one for the crow." Jess Birdwell is happily
                    married and a faithful husband but he has his passions, and one of them, "not to beat the
                    Devil around the bush, [is for] fast horseflesh." A self-reliant man, he believes that
                    "The Lord helps those who help themselves." Jess is also aware of weather signs
                    and seasonal changes which he expresses in axiomatic form: "When roosters wake crowing
                    hoarse, summer is here." One of his sons, caught in an argument, relies on the old maxim,
                    if the shoe fits, wear it. Eliza Birdwell also employs proverbial expressions. Since she has always
                    insisted on personal cleanliness she opposes building a bathroom in the house, a needless expense
                    which would be simpjfy carrying coals to Newcastle. Some-what of a fatalist, she admonishes her
                    husband, "Don't whistle till thee's out of the woods," and she
                    insists that "Bad things go by threes." Chad Lewis, reproved by his mother,
                    recalls that misery loves company and that it is always good policy, if possible, to kill two birds
                    with one stone. And Mrs. Murphy in the midst of a family festival exults: "‘As
                    the old lady said’ … ‘"When I make water, I make water.
                    When I make tea, I make tea."’"31
            
            Jessamyn West's fiction, it must be apparent, has many merits, but two certainly stand out:
                    her characterization and her feeling for language. If her narratives seem unexciting and even
                    incoherent at times, her people are a constant delight, freshly conceived, individual, even a bit
                    eccentric. The fecundity of her imagination is surprising. Generally commonsensical but often
                    endowed with a quirky humor or an ironical point of view, her characters enter the reader's
                    presence in full stature and linger there like old acquaintances. The distinguished contemporary
                    novelist Eudora Welty, reviewing The Witch Diggers, remarks that the novel could
                    be labeled "Indiana, 1899, Breughel," a remark which captures memorably the genre
                    quality of 
                  page numbers: Witch Diggers, 10, 164; 
                        Leafy
                                    Rivers, 40, 74; Love, Death, 32; Matter of Time, 104, 267, 278; South of the Angels, 26, 204,
                            248, 327, 514.
                  
                     31 References for the examples follow in order using abbreviated
                            titles and page numbers: South of the Angels, 385, 217, 116, 19; Except for Me and Thee, 220, 17, 72, 290; Friendly
                                Persuasion, 139; Except for Me and Thee, 25, 165; South of the Angels, 119; Matter of Time, 73.
               
                     Miss West's work.32 William E.
                    Wilson, discussing the same novel, also pays tribute to the characterization but observes that the
                    author somehow missed the "Faulknerian dissonance" that fiction about Indiana
                    definitely needs.33 William Hogan in commenting on South of the
                        Angels remarks that the novel is "outsized" and perhaps
                    "over-populated" but commends the author for her "real and
                    sympathetic" characters; he also perceives that Miss West resisted the temptation to
                    satirize the land of wonderful nonsense which is southern 
                        California
                     and instead produced a book of remarkable "mass characterization."34 Edward Weeks sees in South of the Angels a novel of
                    "Chaucerian dimension," a novel perhaps too ambitious for the author's
                    technical powers, but emphasizes what he calls Miss West's "gleaming
                    moments" and praises her mastery "of the swift descriptive phrase and of the
                    intimate revelatory action."35
            
            In a 1957 essay Jessamyn West stated briefly some of her ideas about the writing of fiction.
                    "Any serious novel," she says, "is the result of a writer's
                    struggle with himself, the world in which he lives, and the means at hand or which he develops to
                    body forth this world fictionally."30 This self-struggle is paramount
                    and continuous for writing is hard work and success does not come easily. The writer's goal
                    she expresses as "openness" which she equates with "space" and
                    "exposure," not hostility. Moreover, she agrees with Ernest Hemingway that a
                    writer must write truly; there must be no falsification, no hypocrisy. Whatever else might be said
                    about Miss West's work, there can be no question about her dedication to her craft nor
                    about the vitality of her people and the language which clothes them.
            It is possible that readers might weary of the domestic environment, not to mention the rural
                    setting, of many of the fictions and might demand characters with greater sophistication. But other
                    novelists treat urban scenes, often with doubtful success or with a spurious sensationalism the
                    appeal of which wanes almost as soon as it lures the reader beyond the opening chapters. Certainly
                    few contemporary writers evince the ability to create people with the idiosyncrasies, homeliness,
                    honesty, wit, and simple humanity of those in whose portraiture Jessamyn West excels. A reader must
                    be grateful for her precision, her authenticity, and her charm. She is a writer to be treasured.
            
               
                  32 Eudora Welty, "A Search, Maddening and Infectious,"
                            
                     
                                New York
                             Times Book Review, January 14, 1951, p. 5.
               
                  33 William E. Wilson, "Indiana Tragedy," Saturday Review, XXXIV (February 3, 1951), 17, 42.
               
                  34 William Hogan, "West to Eden," ibid., XLIII (April 23, 1960), 23, 50.
               
                  35 Weeks, "The Atlantic Bookshelf: The Peripatetic
                        Reviewer," 96.
               
                  36 Jessamyn West, "Secret of the Masters," Saturday Review, XL (September 21, 1957), 13-14, 44. Quotation is from page 13.
            
         
         
         
            The Road to George Ade's Farm: Origins of Taft's First Campaign Rally,
                    September, 1908
            Howard F. McMains∗
            
            A dozen aerial bombs shattered the calm around the usually peaceful prairie countryside of Brook,
                    Indiana. The noise that Wednesday, September 23, 1908, announced the arrival at writer George
                    Ade's Hazelden Farm of William Howard Taft, the Republican presidential candidate, to make
                    the first speech in his campaign tour against Democrat William Jennings Bryan. A caravan of cars
                    brought Taft to Ade's farm from the railroad, eight miles distant, along with Indiana
                    gubernatorial candidate James E. Watson and other dignitaries for perhaps the biggest campaign rally
                    northwestern Indiana had ever seen.1 Taft spoke there because he thought that a
                    rally already planned for Ade's farm by the Indiana Republican committee offered a
                    convenient opportunity to publicize the national ticket in a state beset by factional difficulties.
                    In addition, the Ade rally marked a significant reversal in the campaign strategy of the 1908
                    national Republican ticket. When the campaign opened, national party chairman Frank H. Hitchcock had
                    planned that Taft would conduct a front porch style campaign from Hot Springs, 
                        Virginia
                    , and, after the beginning of September, 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Hitchcock had urged the candidate to decline requests from around the country for
                    personal appearances, including one to speak at the unveiling of the Benjamin Harrison memorial in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .2 Taft, however, was not pleased with Hitchcock's strategy
                    and had so informed the chairman during a conference at Hot Springs in mid-August.3 Also, Taft was receiving advice that he should ignore the announced decision of limiting the
                    campaign "to porch speeches in 
                        Cincinnati
                    ."∗ The influential Republican George B. Cortelyou, for example,
                    urged Taft to make personal appearances if necessary because "There are too many State
                    fights. … We are not at the moment the militant organization we ought to be."5
            
            
               
                  ∗ Howard F. McMains is assistant professor of history,
                        University College, University of 
                     Cincinnati,
                                Cincinnati
                  .
               
                  1
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, September 23, 1908, p. 1.
               
                  2 "Matters for conference with Mr. Hitchcock," Taft
                        Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress, 
                            Washington
                        , D. C), Series III, Box 188; 
                            Lafayette
                         (Indiana) Morning Journal, August 1, 1908, p. 1.
               
                  3
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, September 6, 1908, p. 2.
               
                  4 Charles Nagel to William Howard Taft, August 28, 1908, Taft Papers,
                        Series III, Box 188. Nagel, a Taft enthusiast from 
                            Missouri
                        , was appointed secretary of commerce and labor in Taft's Cabinet.
               
                  5 George B. Cortelyou to Taft, September 2, 1908, ibid.,
                        Box 189. Cortelyou of 
                            New York
                         was secretary of the treasury in President Theodore Roosevelt's
                    Cabinet.
            
            
            At the beginning of September Taft left Hot Springs, traveling to 
                        Cincinnati
                     by way of Middle Bass Island, 
                        Ohio
                    , for a few days' rest on Lake Erie. During the journey he made several
                    impromptu speeches in 
                        Ohio
                     which were enthusiastically received. One listener in Columbus wrote him immediately
                    "to continue that kind of a campaign."6 Encouraged by the
                    success of these 
                        Ohio
                     talks, Taft persuaded Hitchcock at a conference at Middle Bass Island on September 5 to
                    change the basic campaign strategy and to begin planning a campaign tour of the West.7 Taft was quite eager to begin such a tour. He explained some days later to President
                    Theodore Roosevelt that he feared party factionalism was weakening the general campaign effort, but
                    that "the personal presence of the man at the head [of the ticket] will have an encouraging
                    and stimulating effect …"8 Taft established the broad
                    outline of a western tour, but left Hitchcock to return to 
                        New York
                     and fill in the details. The press began immediately to speculate on which states Taft
                    would visit. On September 8 Taft arrived in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where he stayed at the home of his half brother Charles. His headquarters at the Hotel
                    Sinton had already received numerous requests for his appearance, and these he forwarded to
                        Hitchcock.9
            
            In addition Taft was informed that the political situation in Indiana had just taken a turn which
                    threatened his ability to carry the state in the election.10 Earlier in the
                    summer Taft had been made aware of a rift in Indiana between Republican conservatives and
                    progressives after the nomination of the conservative Watson for governor. Senator Albert J.
                    Beveridge, a leading progressive, wrote to Lucius B. Swift—who at this time was one of
                    Taft's Indiana enthusiasts—that while Taft's nomination was satisfying,
                    vice presidential candidate James S. Sherman was too conservative and Watson "represents
                    all the worst phases of our political life."11 Swift sent a description
                    of state politics to President Roosevelt, who in turn forwarded the information to Taft. The
                    candidate subsequently wrote to Swift that he had talked with several Indiana Republicans and had
                        
                  
                     6 James A. Allen to Taft, September 2, 1908, ibid.
                  
                  
                     7
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, September 6, 1908, p. 2; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Enquirer, September 6, 1908, p. 3.
                  
                     8 Taft to President Theodore Roosevelt, September 11, 1908, Taft
                            Papers, Series VIII, Letterbook 25.
                  
                     9 Taft to John Hays Hammond, September 9, 1908, ibid.;
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, September 10, 1908, p. 1; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, September 10, 1908, p. 4. 
                                Hammond
                             was a long time friend of Taft.
                  
                     10 Jefferson H. Claypool to Taft, September 4, 5, 1908, Taft Papers,
                            Series III, Box 189.
                  
                     11 Albert J. Beveridge to Lucius B. Swift, June 29, 1908, Swift Papers
                            (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ). Swift was a civil service reformer, a friend of President Roosevelt, and a
                            leading Indiana progressive.
               
                     received "a variety of counsel and rather conflicting
                    views." Watson allegedly had even suggested audaciously to Taft that the national ticket
                    would act as a drag to his election as governor.12 Watson was supremely
                    confident of his ability to win.13 Another of President Roosevelt's
                    Indiana correspondents, William Dudley Foulke of 
                        Richmond
                    , also sounded a dissident note during the summer of 1908. Watson, Foulke warned,
                    "represents the reactionary element of the party," and he encouraged Taft to line
                    up with the conservative faction no more than necessary. Too many members of "the Indiana
                    ‘gang’" were "discredited" to be of much help to
                    Taft, Foulke claimed.14
            
            When Taft reached 
                        Cincinnati
                     on September 8, among the first letters which he read at the Hotel Sinton headquarters
                    were two which had arrived before Taft15 from Jefferson H. Claypool of the
                    Indiana Republican committee updating alarmingly the Indiana situation. Claypool's first
                    letter of September 4 reported that "the political situation in Indiana today took a sudden turn for the worse" when Republican Governor J. Frank Hanly,
                    "against the advice of all the Republican leaders in the state," called a special
                    session of the legislature for September 18 to consider a county local option bill. Claypool warned
                    that the resulting bitter struggle "will lose Indiana to the national ticket. It is the
                    most outrageous proceeding that has happened in Indiana Politics in thirty years."16 The temperance issue—particularly the question of county
                    option—had been an issue in state politics at least since the legislature passed a mild
                    county option bill in 1895. Governor Hanly had tried unsuccessfully to get the 1907 legislature to
                    broaden the local option law, but in 1908 he did persuade the state Republican convention to adopt a
                    county option plank in its platform.17 Candidate Watson embraced the temperance
                    crusade as part of his own campaign: "I am making the fight straight from the shoulder on
                    that proposition," he wrote.18 A member of the 
                  
                     12 Taft to Lucius B. Swift, July 19, 1908, Swift Papers.
                  
                     13 James E. Watson to George Ade, August 12, 1908, George Ade Papers
                            (Purdue University Library, 
                                West Lafayette
                            , Indiana).
                  
                     14 William Dudley Foulke to President Theodore Roosevelt, July 29,
                            1908, Foulke Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library). Foulke, a resident of 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, was a friend of President Roosevelt and a civil service reformer.
                  
                     15 Fred W. Carpenter to Jefferson H. Claypool, September 5, 1908, Taft
                            Papers, Series VIII, Letterbook 25.
                  
                     16 Jefferson H. Claypool to Taft, September 4, 1908, ibid., Series III, Box 189. County option would have permitted individual counties
                            to limit or ban the sale of alcoholic beverages.
                  
                     17 Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The
                                Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth, 1880-1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 100-101, 495.
                  
                     18 James E. Watson to George Ade, August 17, 1908, Ade Papers; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, August 5, 1908, p. 1, contains an example of
                            Watson's speaking tactics in favor of temperance and local option.
               
                    
                    
                  TAFT WITH GEORGE ADE (ON RIGHT) AT HAZELDEN FARM, SEPTEMBER 23, 1908.
                  Courtesy George Ade Memorial Association, Inc., Kentland, Ind.
               
                     Republican press bureau echoed Claypool's fears,
                    saying that "The temperance issue is the paramount issue in Indiana."19
            
            The day after sending his first appraisal of Governor Hanly's actions Claypool sent a second
                    letter to Taft in which he expanded upon the situation. He reiterated his report of the disruption
                    he thought the governor was causing in the state Republican party, and he stated that many suspected
                    that Hanly, "who is a religious bigot," was secretly trying to aid the Democratic
                    candidate, Bryan. Claypool thought the only man in Indiana who might have persuaded Hanly to drop
                    the whole affair was conservative Vice President Charles Warren Fairbanks, then at his home in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but that his help was unlikely.20 Indeed that was a fair judgment.
                    Several days earlier Taft had sent Hitchcock to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to see Fairbanks,21 who was miffed because of his own failure to
                    get the presidential nomination at the national convention. Hitchcock saw Fairbanks briefly on the
                    evening of September 4 but had no success in persuading the vice president to speak for the national
                        ticket.22 Taft responded to Claypool's letters on September 9, the
                    day after his arrival in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , but, because his own plans were still unsettled, he could only express gratitude for
                    the information and hope that "there may be some way out of the difficulty in which the
                    Governor's action seems to have put you."23
            
            While the plans for Taft's western tour were taking shape, the candidate received further
                    information indicating a situation in Indiana increasingly unfavorable to the national ticket.
                    Foulke wrote to Taft and accused the Republican state committee of bungling the campaign and of
                    sending out speakers who were "reactionaries and out-worn party hacks to give us the old
                    rub-a-dub-dub about the ‘party’ that suppressed the rebellion and provided a
                    protective tariff."24 And V. H. Lockwood of 
                        Indianapolis
                     also wrote to assert 
                  
                     19 Will H. Craig to Robert S. Taylor, August, 1908, Taylor Papers
                            (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library). Judge Taylor of 
                                Fort Wayne
                             had been the Republican senatorial candidate in 1898.
                  
                     20 Jefferson H. Claypool to Taft, September 5, 1908, Taft Papers,
                            Series III, Box 189.
                  
                     21 Taft to John Hays Hammond, September 2, 1908, Hid., Series VIII, Letter-book 25.
                  
                     22 Frank H. Hitchcock to George B. Lockwood, September 3, 1908, and
                            Charles W. Fairbanks to the Reverend J. E. Gilbert, September 7, 1908, Fairbanks Papers
                            (Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ); during the campaign Fairbanks and his newspaper, the conservative 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, were not enthusiastic in supporting Taft and at times were hostile
                            to Taft and the Roosevelt administration. Phillips, Indiana in Transition,
                            105.
                  
                     23 Taft to Jefferson H. Claypool, September 9, 1908, Taft Papers,
                            Series VIII, Letterbook 25.
                  
                     24 William D. Foulke to Taft, September, 1908, Foulke Papers.
               
                     that "those in the active charge of the campaign [are]
                    more indifferent than usual to the awakening of the people in behalf of the National
                        ticket."25 Lockwood's letter arrived on September 11, and
                    on the same day Taft conferred with Hitchcock in 
                        New York
                     by long distance telephone about his tour's itinerary.26
                    Taft suggested making the first speech of the tour in Indiana because, as he wrote the next day, "
                        Kansas
                     and Indiana need work in them … [and] we are going to give them
                        work."27 Taft even suggested to Hitchcock where in Indiana he could
                    give his first speech—at a Republican rally already scheduled near the end of September
                    at the farm of humorist and playwrite George Ade and to which Taft had received an invitation.
            Plans for a Republican farm rally in Indiana had been announced several weeks earlier. On the morning
                    of August 20, 1908, Ade was reading the daily papers which came to Hazelden, his comfortable Tudor
                    style farm home near Brook. He was somewhat surprised, he later wrote,28 by a
                    page one story in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star under the headline "Ade's Farm Rally Will Be Big
                    Event." The article, based on information from Charles S. Hernly of the state committee,
                    said that the rally "would be the biggest Republican event" of the Indiana
                    campaign, that the only thing worrying Ade was having to barbecue forty of his cattle to feed the
                    crowd, and that Hernly had invited a variety of big names to participate. The article claimed that
                    "This rally was planned by Mr. Ade and Mr. Hernly … last spring. Ade is
                    enthusiastic … and proposes to help his guests arouse Republican enthusiasm."29
            
            That, however, was not quite the way Ade recalled a conversation with Hernly during a visit to
                    Hazelden the previous spring. Hernly, though "meaning well, has put me into an embarassing
                    position," Ade lamented several days after the article had appeared in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     paper.30 Ade was fairly active in local Republican politics, and
                    had even been a delegate to the convention which had nominated Taft and a member of the notification
                        committee.31 When Hernly visited the farm, he and Ade had discussed politics
                    and the 
                  
                     25 V. H. Lockwood to Taft, September 10, 1908, Taft Papers, Series
                            III, Box 190.
                  
                     26
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Record-Herald, September 12, 1908, p. 5.
                  
                     27 Taft to John Barrett, September 12, 1908, Taft Papers, Series VIII,
                            Letter-book 26.
                  
                     28 George Ade to Fred Sims, August 26, 1908, Ade Papers. Sims was a
                            conservative member of the Republican state committee.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, August 20, 1908, p. 1.
                  
                     30 George Ade to Fred Sims, August 26, 1908, Ade Papers.
                  
                     31 John N. Clouse, "George Ade Has Always Been a Busy
                            Man," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, June 25, 1939, section 6, p. 5. This article reports a 1939
                            interview with Ade. According to his biographer Fred C. Kelly, Ade also traveled on a
                            speaking tour with Senator Beveridge during this campaign. Kelly, George Ade:
                                Warmhearted Satirist (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1947), 220-21.
               
                     vague possibility of a Republican rally at Hazelden. Back in 
                        Indianapolis
                     Hernly had mentioned the idea to reporters. But Ade insisted that he had regarded the
                    whole affair "as one of Charley's jokes until the other day I found a big
                    first-page article in the Star." Otherwise, Ade privately explained, "I would have
                    headed off the barbecue idea long ago if I had thought that people were going to take it
                    seriously." Ade could offer a variety of arguments why the rally would not be a good
                    idea—distance of the farm from the railroad, the difficulty of feeding such a large crowd
                    (he estimated the cost of forty cattle at $4,000), and the better use of the time and
                    money elsewhere. Although he was willing to assist in the campaign, Ade did not want a Hazelden
                    rally. Unfortunately, Ade lamented, "Hernly … has talked so much about it that
                    possibly we will be compelled to go ahead and make good."32 In fact,
                    Hernly's announcement had excited many Newton County Republicans who took the plans to be
                    accomplished fact.
            Although Ade delicately tried to back out of the situation which Hernly had thrust upon him, he found
                    he could not. He soon received a letter from gubernatorial candidate Watson bubbling with
                        enthusiasm.33 Hernly meanwhile sent an invitation to Taft in 
                        Virginia
                     for a September 30 rally, saying that "Mr. Ade is making a special effort
                    … and we … invite you to be present and spend the day at Mr. Ade's
                    home …."34 The weekly Brook Reporter could
                    barely contain itself at the thought of a major political event occurring in Brook. The paper
                    reprinted the August 20 article from the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star, adding that Ade's farm would be an ideal location and that any
                    problems in holding a large rally there could be overcome. The enterprise was bound to be a
                    "Success" and "the greatest rally in the history of Indiana
                        Republicanism."35
            
            Taft did not reply immediately to Hernly's invitation perhaps because he was traveling from
                    Hot Springs to Middle Bass Island around this time. In a second letter several days later Hernly
                    argued that farmers from 
                  Michigan, Illinois
               , and Indiana were expected, making the
                    rally an important event: "We must have the farmers' vote in this state and other
                    states in order to carry this election …"36 Even though Taft
                    replied to Hernly's letters just after receiving Claypool's pessimistic assessment
                    of the Indiana situation, the western 
                  
                     32 George Ade to Fred Sims, August 26, 1908, Ade Papers. In part, Ade
                            seems also to have been trapped by his initial positive reaction to the idea, however
                            reluctant that agreement might have been.
                  
                     33 James E. Watson to George Ade, August 25, 1908, Ade Papers.
                  
                     34 Charles S. Hernly to Taft, August 28, 1908, Taft Papers, Series
                            III, Box 188.
                  
                     35 Brook Reporter, August 28, 1908, p. 1.
                  
                     36 Charles S. Hernly to Taft, September 2,1908, Taft Papers, Series
                            III, Box 188.
               
                    
                    
                  Reproduced from the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, September 25, 1908.
               
                     tour itinerary was yet unformed; and Taft had had insufficient
                    time to evaluate the Indiana situation for him "to accept the kind invitation."37 Within a few days, however, the situation had changed. Possibly Taft had some
                    rapid second thoughts about Indiana and the need to rally support for the national ticket in a state
                    which seemed from information he had received to be dividing over the temperance issue. Since a
                    speaking tour from 
                        Cincinnati
                     westward was being planned anyway, a visit—even a short one—in
                    Indiana apparently must have seemed increasingly a good idea.
            A crucial development in getting Taft to come to Ade's farm presumably was the timely
                    intervention of Will H. Hays, the young chairman of the party's state speakers bureau. Ade
                    presented Hays with plans for the rally and, probably at Hernly's urging, noted how
                    valuable Taft's appearance would be. Hays realized that Taft would probably wish to make
                    his first speech in a major city—and indeed Hitchcock was planning on 
                        Chicago
                    —but at the same time Hays thought the whole idea just audacious enough to be
                    worth pursuing. So around September 10 Hays telephoned Taft at 
                        Cincinnati
                    
               38 and, noting that Brook was on the way from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        Chicago
                    , again asked Taft to attend the rally. Hays' telephone call elicited a
                    response which Hernly's letters had not. To Hays' surprise, Taft said he
                    remembered Ade as a member of the notification committee39 and that he had
                    always enjoyed Ade's writing, especially the musical The Sultan of Sulu.
                    Hays outlined the rally plans, and Taft reportedly said, "‘I will go to the farm
                    at Brook and see the Sultan of Sulu.’"40 In his telephone
                    conversation with Hitchcock on September 11, Taft asked the chairman to make the necessary
                    arrangements for a stop at Brook.41
            
            By September 14 Taft's appearance at Ade's farm was accepted as the first speech on
                    the itinerary. The exact date of the rally, however, had not been determined.42
                    Hays conferred by telephone with Hitchcock on the fourteenth, but they did not settle on a final
                    date. 
                  
                     37 Taft to Charles S. Hernly, September 8, 1908, ibid., Series VIII, Letterbook 26.
                  
                     38
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, September 16, 1908, p. 2.
                  
                     39 Taft to George Ade, June 24, 1908, Ade Papers; George Ade,
                            "The Autobiography of George Ade," Kentland-Newton County
                                Centennial (n. p., 1960), 37.
                  
                     40 Kelly, George Ade, 220. Kelly asserts, ibid., 219, that Ade "conceived the idea that Taft should open
                            his campaign at Hazelden." Ade wrote "The Sultan of Sulu," which
                            has a Philippine motif, after a visit to the Philippines with John T. McCutcheon in 1900.
                            George Ade, "Checking up at the Age of Seventy," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 9, 1936, part 5, p. 4. Taft was governor of the Philippines
                            from July, 1901, until early 1904.
                  
                     41
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Record-Herald, September 12, 1908, p. 5.
                  
                     42
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, September 15, 1908, p. 1. One determining factor was Taft's
                            obligation to address a meeting of Republican clubs in 
                                Cincinnati
                             on September 22. Taft to Charles Brooker, September 15, 1908, Taft Papers,
                            Series VIII, Letterbook 25. Brooker was a prominent 
                                Connecticut
                             Republican.
               
                     The complete itinerary was ready on September 15: from
                    Ade's farm, Taft would go to 
                        Chicago
                     and towns in 
                  Wisconsin, Minnesota
               , North and 
                  South
                            Dakota, Iowa, Nebraska, Colorado, Kansas
               , and 
                        Missouri
                    ." Members of the national committee conferred at the Hotel Sinton on the
                    sixteenth to settle on the exact dates of speeches, and it became official:
                    "Taft's Itinerary For Western Trip. Will Speak at George Ade's Farm at
                    Brook, Ind., on Sept. 23."44 Despite the announced plans, Hernly
                    remained somewhat anxious, perhaps unable to believe that Taft would actually attend the rally. He
                    wrote to Taft again reminding the candidate of the rally's importance: "We are
                    having a great struggle in Indiana on account of the temperance question … and we are
                    depending on the farmer votes carrying Indiana."45
            
            The announcement of Taft's appearance at Ade's farm caused many Indiana towns to
                    hope that Taft would stop along the way for a short address. The 
                        Cass County
                     Republican chairman, for example, tried to persuade the state committee to have Taft
                    stop in 
                        Logansport
                     though this decision was beyond its power. Not until the very eve of the tour, however,
                    did the local paper say that a report that Taft would visit 
                        Logansport
                     and give a fifteen minute speech was "entirely without
                        foundation."46
            
            Not everyone considered the rally a good idea. Herbert E. Hess of Plymouth, Indiana, wrote
                    indignantly to Taft about having the only Indiana speech at "the ostentatious and luxurious
                    country home of Indiana's most ambitious comedy opera writer, Mr. George Ade."
                    That would not be the location from which to appeal to labor, Negro, and business voters; instead,
                    he urged Taft to speak at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .47 The most restrained reaction came from the Kentland Democrat. Under the headline "Big Horse Show Here Next Week" the paper
                    told how the days of the local horse show had been twice altered to avoid conflicting with the
                    appearance of Taft at Ade's farm, some dozen miles north of Kentland. The horse show would
                    be September 24 to 26, beginning a day after the rally, an unnecessary accommodation the paper
                    thought. "Therefore let nobody become ‘mixed’ as to the time, but
                    prepare to join the crowd and enjoy the entertainment provided for all who will attend."
                    The paper clearly preferred horse shows to Taft rallies.48
            
            
               
                  43 "Itinerary of Mr. Taft's Western Trip,"
                        September 15, 1908, Taft Papers, Series VIII, Letterbook 25; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, September 16, 1908, p. 1.
               
                  44
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, September 17, 1908, p. 3.
               
                  45 Charles S. Hernly to Taft, September 18, 1908, Taft Papers, Series III,
                        Box 193.
               
                  46
                        
                            Logansport
                         (Indiana) Daily Tribune, September 18, 1908, p. 5; September 22,
                        1908, p. 5.
               
                  47 Herbert E. Hess to Taft, September 17, 1908, Taft Papers, Series III,
                        Box 192. Hess was a Plymouth attorney.
               
                  48 Kentland (Indiana) Democrat, September 18, 1908, p.
                        1.
            
            
            
               GEORGE ADE'S HAZELDEN FARM
               
               Reproduced from Fred C. Kelly, George Ade; Warmhearted Satirist (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The Bobbs-Merrill Co., 1947), facing 129.
            
            
            Once Taft's decision to appear at Ade's farm had been confirmed, there were
                    necessary arrangements to be made with the railroads. A special train was arranged for Taft and
                    placed under the direction of 
                        United States
                     Senate sergeant at arms Colonel Daniel Ransdell, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     native. The train, comprised of the platform-observation car
                    "Constitution" for Taft and the immediate party, two other cars, and a baggage
                    car, was scheduled to leave 
                        Cincinnati
                     at 8:00 A.M., September 23, and to travel to Brook "without political
                        interruption."4" In addition, various railroads arranged
                    day excursion trains to bring spectators to Brook. The Big Four scheduled a special to leave 
                        Lafayette
                     at 8:00 A.M. and to have a return fare of 95 cents.60 The 
                        Chicago
                     and Eastern 
                        Illinois
                     Railroad arranged a train from 
                        Brazil
                    , near 
                        Terre Haute
                    , leaving at 6:45 A.M. and returning that evening for a fare of $2.10.51 And the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Railroad announced an excursion train from 
                        Logansport
                     at 10:15 for a return fare of $1.04.52 Other trains were
                    to come to Brook from 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Danville
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    .53
            
            Taft spent much time just prior to departure at his brother's 
                        Cincinnati
                     home preparing speeches for the tour.54 Brook meanwhile eagerly
                    awaited its big day, "the day the whole countryside hereabouts has been looking forward
                        to."55 At precisely 8:00 A.M., September 23, Taft's train
                    left 
                        Cincinnati
                     over the Big Four Railroad.58 Two hours later the special steamed
                    under the vast, low shed at 
                        Indianapolis
                    ' 
                        Union
                     Station and stopped for six minutes. About 200 people were there to cheer when Taft
                    stepped onto the platform of the "Constitution" and waved. Someone yelled,
                    " ‘Three cheers for the next President,’" and the crowd
                    cheered again. Taft passed a few words with Indiana Senator James A. Hemenway, who climbed up on the
                    railing around the platform, and with Indiana Congressman James Overstreet. Though Taft did not make
                    a speech, he did quip to the crowd. " ‘We have been traveling sixty miles an
                    hour, and could not see anything for the dust. … But I hope the voters will not get any
                    dust in their eyes before election day,’" he chortled.67
                    Several people, including Hernly, boarded the special before it steamed out of the station and on to 
                        Lafayette
                    , covering the sixty-five miles in sixty-five minutes. At 
                        Lafayette
                     the train again stopped briefly, 
                  
                     49
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, September 19, 1908, p. 24; September 22, 1908, p. 3.
                  
                     50
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, September 22, 1908, p. 4.
                  
                     51
                            
                                Brazil
                             (Indiana) Daily Times, September 19, 1908, p. 3.
                  
                     52
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Daily Tribune, September 22, 1908, p. 5.
                  
                     53
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Record-Herald, September 14, 1908, p. 2.
                  
                     54
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, September 19, 1908, p. 24.
                  
                     55
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, September 21, 1908, p. 1.
                  
                     56
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, September 24, 1908, p. 3.
                  
                     57
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, September 23, 1908, p. 4.
               
                    
                    
                  Reproduced from the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, September 15, 1908.
               
                     giving Taft just enough time to shake a few hands. As he leaned
                    to grasp one man's hand, someone in the crowd yelled, "
                    ‘That's the worst Democrat in town.’" Taft smiled and
                    replied, " ‘Well, shake again. You are an American citizen just the
                    same.’" The crowd cheered.58
            
            From 
                        Lafayette
                     the train raced northwestward slowing only at Sheff, where it left the Big Four and
                    headed due north on the tracks of the 
                        Chicago
                    , Indiana, and Southern Railway. A few minutes later, at noon, the train stopped at Ade,
                    a small station about six miles west of Brook and eight miles from the farm. The special was an hour
                    early, and, as no one met it, only the hissing and clanking of the standing steam locomotive broke
                    the prairie silence.59 While waiting, Taft went up front to the engine and
                    congratulated the conductor and engineer on the speed of the morning's run. "Then,
                    in a halo of dust," states one report, "a Newton County ‘Barney
                    Oldfield’ appeared, smashing the gravel road motor car record." The local
                    committee had been informed of the train's early arrival only at the last minute and so the
                    first automobile to the station arrived after the train.60
            
            At Ade's farm the program had been underway since 9:30. Some guests had come by automobile,
                    perhaps 200 of the vehicles in all arriving at the farm. Many more visitors came in the excursion
                    trains which arrived all during the morning at Brook and which were shunted onto the limited
                    sidings. Hundreds of passengers were hauled the two miles to Hazelden Farm by a variety of
                    conveyances which Ade had hired and which paraded back and forth along the road all morning. A
                    decision to bring Taft's train to Brook station was not made in time to make the necessary
                    arrangements. The Brook Band, the Purdue Military Band, and the Juvenile Band of Monticello
                    performed before noon. A variety of local politicians addressed the crowd, much of which sat on two
                    long sections of circus bleachers arranged facing the house and underneath the large shade trees.
                    Tents had been set up where refreshments were sold and where campaign literature, badges, and
                    souvenir post cards were given away. At noon the Second Regiment Band from 
                        Chicago
                     played. When word arrived that the train was at Ade station, Ade, his father John Ade,
                    and Watson hurried off in a caravan of six automobiles to greet the candidate.61
            
            
               
                  58
                        
                            Chicago
                        
                        Record-Herald, September 24, 1908, p. 2.
               
                  59
                        Ibid. The 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, September 23, 1908, p. 4, gives some details of route, time, and speeds
                        for the trip.
               
                  60
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, September 24, 1908, p. 5.
               
                  61 The fullest account of the rally appears in the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, September 23, 1908, pp. 1, 4. Other accounts appear in various
                        newspapers; see for example, 
                            New York
                        
                        Times, September 24, 1908, p. 3; 
                            Chicago
                        
                        Record-Herald, Septem-
            
            
            From where Taft's train had stopped, it was six miles due east to Brook along a straight
                    road parched by a month's dry weather. Small posters with pictures of Taft and Watson and
                    flags had been tacked to poles along the way. The main street of Brook was decorated with arches,
                    each with pictures of the candidates framed in evergreen hanging from it. Signs saying
                    "Welcome," done in evergreen and framed in marigolds, were everywhere. And any
                    remaining space in Brook was covered with red, white, and blue bunting. Two miles farther on east
                    was Hazelden Farm. When the automobile caravan approached the farm at 12:45, the aerial bombs were
                    set off to salute Taft's arrival, the white smoke clearing from the grounds only slowly in
                    the still noon air. As the car carrying Taft pulled onto the grounds, it was surrounded by the
                    "throng of agriculturists,"62 and several bands started to
                    play. Somehow the candidate managed to get into the house, where a light luncheon was served. The
                    crowd meanwhile dined on either picnic lunches or 2,000 "full dinner pails"
                    available for a quarter each and containing. sandwiches and pickles. While everyone was eating, the
                    Harlequin Glee Club from Purdue entertained.
            After a brief luncheon, Taft, Ade, Watson, and others in the official party stepped from the house at
                    1:15 P.M. to the decorated speakers' platform. Having been briefly introduced by Ade, Taft
                    began his speech by referring to the day's host as the "Indiana Sultan of
                    Sulu" and asserting that the Philippine original had no advantage over Ade as an
                    entertainer. He also punned, perhaps reflecting some of the luncheon banter, how the rally had
                    " ‘aided his campaign.’"83
                    Explaining why he was at Ade's farm, Taft said that he had
                        been told that if he came to the rally he would be able to address 10,000 farmers. And so
                    he asserted, "1 seized the opportunity … to ask you … whether your
                    experience as farmers with Mr. Bryan … is such as to commend him to you as the person
                    into whose hands you wish to put the executive power over the destinies of this Nation for four
                    years." He turned to Bryan's career and argued that it had been detrimental to the
                    American farmer. Only after the establishment 
                  ber 24, 1908, p. 2; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, September 24, 1908, pp. 1, 5; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Enquirer, September 24, 1908, p. 1. The Brook Reporter
                            for September, 1908, is missing from the publisher's file, the only extant
                            collection of the paper. The account in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News is lengthy but condescending; it was written by W. H. Blodgett, a
                            political conservative who supported local option and Watson. It is indicative of
                            Blodgett's unobjective reporting in 1908 that he caustically referred to Brook
                            ("You start day before yesterday and arrive day after tomorrow.") even
                            though several days earlier he had described a merry motor journey to remote Flora, Indiana
                            ("a little town fully as pretty as its name"), for a well received Watson
                            speech advocating county option. That the News did not give good press to
                            the Taft rally is in keeping with its antiprogressive stance in 1908.
                  
                     62
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Record-Herald, September 23, 1908, p. 3.
                  
                     63
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, September 24, 1908, p. 1.
               
                     of the gold standard and the passage of the Dingley Tariff in
                    1897, replacing the Democratic Wilson-Gorman bill, had farm prices improved. As to the protective
                    tariffs passed by the Republicans, which the Democrats argued worked hardship upon the farmer, Taft
                    asked his audience to refer to their own experience and draw their own conclusions. In conclusion,
                    Taft said: 
                        "I submit to you gentlemen that till the soil; I submit to you who through the rural
                            delivery receive the newspapers and magazines with which to follow current events and take
                            the measures of public men, whether the experience of the country in the economic theories
                            of Mr. Bryan is such as to warrant the belief that if he is elected in November he will
                            restore the necessary confidence and bring out the capital, the delay in the coming of which
                            makes our business future hang in the balance."64
                  
                    There was enthusiastic cheering.
            Following Taft's speech there was a short talk by the Reverend John Wesley Hill of 
                        New York
                    , a member of Taft's party. Afterwards, "300 pounds of Taft was again
                    wedged through apparently impregnable ranks of people to the automobiles." Then Taft
                    "and his comet-like tail of newspaper correspondents vanished in a cloud of
                        dust,"65 returning to the train and speeding on to 
                        Chicago
                     for the second speech of his tour that evening at Orchestra Hall. Taft had not waited
                    through the speech by Watson, who emphasized state issues, especially local option. There were more
                    speeches, more bands, and more fireworks through the afternoon and into the night, but the
                    significant event—the speech of William Howard Taft—had passed.
            While the general reaction of those reporting the rally was favorable, there was criticism of the day
                    at Ade's farm. The weekly Kentland Democrat reported in prime space that
                    the horse show was a success; only elsewhere did the paper report on the affair up at Ade's
                    farm. The rally was a "success," the paper yawned, in that a lot of people and two
                    well known men, Taft and Watson, were there. But, "the people met with disappointment and
                    inconvenience." The disappointment stemmed from the shortness of Taft's speech and
                    the inconvenience from the discovery by many local farmers hired by Ade to provide free
                    transportation between Brook and the farm that they could get away with charging for the return trip
                    to the trains. One local farmer, the Democrat alleged, picked up $62.50
                    that way.66
                    
                  
                     64
                            Ibid., p. 5.
                  
                            65
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     66 Kentland Democrat, September 25, 1908, p. 1; see
                            also 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, September 24, 1908, p. 4, which states that these charges were made
                            without Ade's knowledge.
               
                     The Democratic paper at 
                        Rensselaer
                     limited its reporting to a short article under the headline "And There Were
                    Pickpockets There." Operating like the Republican tariff, the paper said, the thieves
                    entered the victims' pockets and removed the contents without the victims'
                        knowledge.67
            
            Other observers were more favorably impressed. A 
                        Lafayette
                     paper said that Ade's rally was the most magnificent affair "since
                    the days when Sir Walter Scott indulged his taste for ‘baronial
                        hospitality.’"68 The Rennselaer Republican called it "the greatest event of the kind."69
                    And, if the reaction of one observer was reasonably typical, then the rally was indeed a great
                    success: "Taft was here and such a crowd of people 25,000 George Ade has done a great thing
                    well," reads the message on one of the souvenir post cards.70 That this
                    observer thought the crowd to be so large indicates the tremendous impression which the vast numbers
                    probably made on those attending, but a more accurate estimate of the number of people at
                    Ade's farm is probably about 10,000.71 Regardless of the exact size of
                    the crowd, as Ade's father later wrote, "Everybody went home impressed with the
                    fact that they had attended the greatest and most interesting political gathering ever held in this
                    section of Indiana."72
            
            Taft opened his campaign tour at Ade's farm because Hernly's rally offered a
                    convenient occasion in Indiana to draw attention to the national campaign. Taft came to Brook to
                    talk about the presidential campaign: he did not refer to the divisive state issues nor recommend
                    state candidates; he simply told farmers how dangerous it would be for them to vote for Bryan. In
                    the ensuing election, Taft carried Indiana by 10,000 votes while Democratic gubernatorial candidate
                    Thomas R. Marshall defeated Watson by 15,000 votes.73 There is no conclusive
                    evidence, but Taft's personal appearance in the state was probably not in vain. In his
                    speech at Hazelden Farm Taft established issues about which he would speak for the rest of the cam-
                        
                  
                     67
                            Jasper County (
                                Rensselaer
                            , Indiana) Democrat, September 26, 1908, p. 1; also reprinted
                            in Kentland Democrat, October 2, 1908, p. 1.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, September 24, 1908, p. 1.
                  
                     69
                            
                                Rensselaer
                             (Indiana) Republican, September 25, 1908, p. 1.
                  
                     70 Dora (unknown) to Mrs. Eugene Smith, n.d., post card in possession
                            of author.
                  
                     71
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, September 24, 1908, p. 4, indicates that "A safe,
                            conservative estimate is … between 8,000 and 9,000 people …"
                  
                     72 John Ade, Newton County: A Collection of Historical
                                Facts and Personal Recollections Concerning Newton County, Indiana, From 1853 to
                            1911 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1911), 285. Ade, George Ade's father, indicates that there were
                            25,000 people at the rally, that Taft spoke for one hour, and that Taft received
                            enthusiastic applause and a final big ovation. Ibid., 282-85.
                  
                     73 Phillips, Indiana in Transition, 105-106. Senator
                            Beveridge had predicted in July that Taft would carry Indiana by 20,000 votes over the state
                            ticket. Taft to Lucius B. Swift, July 19, 1908, Swift Papers.
               
                     paign—the utility of the tariff and the danger of
                    free trade, the soundness of Republican administration, and the ruin which would follow
                    Bryan's election.74 After an initially sedentary campaign Taft began
                    his western speaking tour with energy and enthusiasm. While Henry F. Pringle, Taft's
                    biographer, has written that Taft made no memorable campaign speeches, his audiences liked him
                    because he was honest and congenial,75 qualities he evidenced from the
                    tour's beginning in his "dignified, forceful and effective" speech at
                    Ade's farm.76
            
            As Taft was leaving the rally, someone in the crowd yelled to him, " ‘Good boy,
                    Bill; give Bryan hell.’"77 If the comment did not accurately
                    reflect Taft's campaign style, it did indicate the enthusiasm of many who saw and heard him
                    at this first campaign rally. Such enthusiasm justified his reversing Hitchcock's
                    "front porch" strategy and beginning an active campaign tour. It was to bring his
                    campaign against Bryan directly to the electorate that Taft had come to Ade's farm, and it
                    was the strategy he would follow until the election.
            
               
                  74 Edgar A. Hornig, "Campaign Issues in the Presidential Election
                        of 1908," Indiana Magazine of History, LIV (September, 1958), 240,
                        241, 260.
               
                  75 Henry F. Pringle, The Life and Times of William Howard
                            Taft: A Biography (2 VOlS., 
                            New York
                        , 1933), I, 366-67.
               
                  76 John Ade, Newton County, 284.
               
                  77
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, September 24, 1908, p. 5.
            
         
         
         
            William P. Dole: Wabash Valley Merchant and Flatboatman
            
                    Edited by Donald F. Carmony
                
            
                    Contributed by Marion H. Gray
                    ∗
                
            From Indiana's territorial period to the 1850s the large preponderance of its exports
                    floated southward on flatboats to markets along the lower Mississippi River.
                    This outgoing trade consisted principally of bulky and heavy products from farms and forests, some
                    of which underwent no processing or manufacturing before leaving Indiana. The cargoes carried by
                    flatboats ranged from live animals such as hogs and chickens to corn, wheat, oats, meal, flour,
                    pork, lard, beef, venison, whisky, vegetables, sawed lumber, hoop poles, cheese, furs, feathers,
                    beeswax, and ginseng. These boats varied much in size and appearance and were often constructed to
                    suit the cargo and whim of their builders. Made locally and suitable only for the one way trip
                    downstream, their building, loading, and navigation was at times a cooperative venture among
                    neighbors. In other instances merchants or traders collected produce and conveyed it to market on
                    these floating arks.1
            
            As early as 1820 the legislature of Indiana began designating numerous streams within the state as
                    public highways, making them open for the passage of flatboats and other craft. Fines were provided
                    for persons obstructing these export arteries, though mill dams could be erected on them if
                    provision were made for the passage of boats. Rivers were at times declared public highways up to
                    certain mills. Thus, the Patoka was so declared from its mouth to Mosley's mill; Little
                    Pigeon, from its mouth to John Barker's mill. Hundreds of flatboats descended
                    Indiana's rivers annually during at least the 1820s through the early 1850s, making
                    flatboating a common experience for men and boys. Like Abe Lincoln, numerous pioneer lads got their
                    first significant exposure to the "outside world" when they spent several weeks or
                    even a few months away from home on account of flatboat trips to the warmer clime and generally more
                    developed 
                  
                     ∗ Appreciation is here expressed to Mrs. Gray for her
                            suggestions and considerable help in editing the letters. The letters are owned by Elizabeth
                            J. R. Stinson, William P. Dole's great-granddaughter, of 
                                Kankakee
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            . The transcription which follows is based on a xerox copy of the original
                            letters which was obtained with the permission of Mrs. Stinson and the cooperation of Mrs.
                            Gray. Another xerox copy of these letters is in the Indiana Division, Indiana State Library,
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     1 John D. Barnhart and Donald P. Carmony, Indiana: From
                                Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), I, 280-83; R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: The
                                Pioneer Period, 1815-1840 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950), I, 413-15, 530:32; Logan Esarey, Internal Improvements in
                                Early Indiana (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. V, No. 2; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1912), 60-63.
               
                     society of the lower Mississippi Valley
                    trading centers. In the early part of the nineteenth century the boatmen frequently made the return
                    journey by foot, walking the Natchez and other trails. From the twenties, however, many of them had
                    the thrill and excitement of making the return journey via steamboat. Some of the pioneers made
                    dozens of flatboat trips to the lower 
                        Mississippi
                    .2
            
            The letters which follow tell of four flatboat trips which William P. Dole made during the early
                    1840s from Clinton, located on the Wabash River about sixteen miles above 
                        Terre Haute
                    , in 
                        Vermillion County
                    , Indiana. They constitute only a portion of the correspondence between Dole and his
                    second wife Jane Bryson Dole for these trips. Moreover, there were additional flatboat trips not
                    here represented.3 Most of the letters were penned by Dole while floating
                    downstream or from various market points along the lower 
                        Mississippi
                    . They reveal much about the obstructions to and hazards from flatboat navigation, offer
                    interesting vignettes of life aboard flat-boats, afford glimpses of the difficulties,
                    disappointments, and delays often involved in disposing of produce; and indicate the personal
                    inconveniences and concerns arising from weeks away from home and business. The few letters from
                    Jane Dole to her husband add vivid and moving reminders that the inconveniences and concerns could
                    be even greater for wives and mothers at home than for their absent husbands.
            Dole mingled business and politics during a long and eventful life. He was born in 
                        Vermont
                     in 1811; after stays in 
                        New Hampshire
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     his family settled near 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, in 1821. A decade later William made Clinton his home. At this small
                        Wabash River town he entered the grocery and dry goods business, served as
                    a dealer in produce, and became a pork packer. While a resident of Clinton "he made some
                    eight trips down the 
                        Mississippi
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                    , most of them on a flat boat, selling produce at all the points from Memphis to 
                        New Orleans
                    ."4 During the thirties and forties he served 
                  
                     2 See the references cited in the preceding note. An interesting and
                            informative description of -flatboating from 
                                Vermillion
                             Township, 
                                Vermillion County
                            , Indiana, adjoining the Wabash River in the northern part
                            of the county above Clinton is found in Harold L. O'Donnell, 
                        
                                    Newport
                                 and 
                                    Vermillion
                                 Township: The First Hundred Years, 1824-1924 (Cayuga, Ind., 1969),
                            37-42. O'Donnell includes several contemporary letters concerning flatboating in
                            the 1840s. He indicates that as many as a hundred flatboats annually left Eugene, a town in 
                                Vermillion
                             Township.
                  
                     3 In the letters which follow, see pages 355, 357, 359, 360, for
                            evidence that there was additional correspondence. Also see pages 347, 352, for indications
                            that there were further trips. As suggested in the ensuing paragraph, one sketch of Dole
                            states that he made "some eight trips" to 
                                New Orleans
                            , most of them via flatboat. The only known Dole correspondence regarding
                            flatboating not here published is a brief letter from him to his first wife, Susan Rush
                            Dole, April 4, 1836.
                  
                     4
                     History of 
                                    Edgar County
                                , 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1879), 569.
               
                    
                    
                  WILLIAM P. DOLE
                  
                  Courtesy Marion H. Gray.
               
                     various terms in both houses of the Indiana General Assembly as
                    a representative of the Whig party.5 By 1860 he had moved westward a short
                    distance across the state line to 
                        Paris
                    , in 
                        Edgar County
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , where he opened a store in partnership with William Kile. In 1860 Dole was a delegate
                    to the Republican National Convention at 
                        Chicago
                     which nominated Lincoln for the presidency. Soon after Lincoln's inauguration
                    as President Dole became his commissioner of Indian affairs.6 After this service
                    he retained his residence at 
                        Washington
                     where he died in 1889.7
            
            
               
                  5 Dorothy Riker and Gayle Thornbrough, Indiana Election
                            Returns, 1816-1851 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XL; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1960), 244, 288, 297, 308, 319, 333.
               
                  6
                        History of 
                                Edgar County
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            , 569-70.
               
                  7
                  Ibid., 570; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Indiana Sentinel, October 3, 1889. The Indiana Sentinel
                        states that Dole was born in 1810.
            
            
            
               THE OHIO RIVER ABOVE THE WABASH RIVER
               
               Reproduced from Samuel Cummings, The Westen Pilot (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1840), 63. Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        ,
            
            
            
               Reproduced from Samuel Cumminga, The Western Pilot (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1840), 64-65. Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            
               Reproduced from Samuel Cummings, The Western Pilot (
                            Cincinnati
                         1840), 65-66. Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
            
            
            
               MAP OF THE OHIO RIVER (UNDATED) FROM CINCINNATI TO CAIRO
               
               Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            
               MAP OF THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER (UNDATED)
                            SOUTH FROM CAIRO
               
               Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, Bloomiagton
            
            
            
               MAP OP THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER (UNDATED)
                            CONTINUING SOUTH
               
               Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, Bloomingtor
            
            
            
               MAP OF THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER (UNDATED)
                            TO THE MOUTHS OF THE RIVER
               
               Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            Dole Letters1
            
            1840
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Grand Rapids,2
                                 Wabash river
                              
                           
                                    Wensday 26th day Feby 1840
                                
                        Dear Jane
                        having ben driven to the willows by the winds blowing to hard for us to run any more
                                    to day I shall spend a Little of the day in writing to you believing as I must from
                                    my own feelings that you will be pleased to receive a Line from me all though it
                                    contained no news but that all was well. I hardly now how to write to you not
                                    Knowing in what state of health my Letter may find you-you will have heard no doubt
                                    before you receive this that we did not Leave Walkers' Bluff3 untill Sunday after noon-we should have Left Sooner but one of my hands
                                        sloped
                           4 Leaving me a Little out of Sorts, however in sending Brother Joseph for a horse to go to
                                    Clinton for a hand he contracted?] with a Mr Johnston to go with us Which was a Very
                                    good arangement as he Johnston owed me twenty Dollars and was not worth a cent so
                                    that much is saved, but I was not a Little disapointed in being [again ?] deprived
                                    of the necessity of going to Clinton for a hand as I had made
                                    great calculations on seeing you again before I Left but that may be [Jus?]t as it
                                    is for I say in good faith that I who have been from my home so much and so often
                                    never regretted Leaving 
                              
                                 1 The handwritten letters were transcribed from
                                            photocopies. Spacing of dates, openings, and closings has been standardized
                                            throughout; paragraphing is as in the photocopies. Elevated letters have
                                            been brought down to the line; obvious repetitions, flourishes, and items
                                            crossed out have been omitted. Commas apparently intended for periods have
                                            been changed to periods; otherwise punctuation is unchanged. Errors in
                                            spelling remain; [sic] is used only when there might be a
                                            question of an error in transcription or printing. Obvious capitals or lower
                                            case letters have been retained; several letters (c, m, s, w, y) are not
                                            always distinguishable as capital or lower case, and the editor has selected
                                            according to size and letter formation. Where words are indistinguishable, a
                                            possible insertion has been made in brackets. Bracketed items indicate
                                            insertions by the editor. Words or letters followed by a question mark in
                                            brackets indicate the editor has chosen one alternative of possible
                                            transcriptions because of ambiguously formed letters. The sign,
                                            @, has been used in place of Dole's
                                            "a" with an irregular swirl which seems to mean the same
                                            thing. Space has been left to indicate sentence groupings where there is no
                                            punctuation in order to increase readability. When possible, places have
                                            been located except for Cairo, Memphis, Vicksburg, Natchez, and 
                                                New Orleans
                                             which are readily located on maps. Only in a few cases have
                                            people been identified because adequate sources are lacking. According to
                                            Mrs. Gray "Brother Joseph" and Allen mentioned in the
                                            letter of February 26, 1840, are respectively the brother of Dole and Allen
                                            Rush, a cousin of Dole's first wife.
                              
                                 2 The Grand Rapids of the 
                                                Wabash
                                             were located south of 
                                                Vincennes
                                            . They and other obstructions in this part of the 
                                                Wabash
                                             extended for a distance of about fifteen miles, beginning about
                                            six miles below the mouth of the White River and ending
                                            about nine miles north of same. For descriptions of these obstructions see
                                            Indiana, House Journal (1823-1824), 200-201; ibid. (1833-1834), 218-19.
                              
                                 3 Walker's Bluff was located near 
                                                Terre Haute
                                             down the Wabash River from Clinton. A. T.
                                            Andreas, Illustrated Historical Atlas of 
                                                    Vigo County
                                                , Indiana (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1874), 34.
                              
                                 4 "Slope" generally means to run
                                            off, apparently the meaning here.
                           
                                     it so much as this time. I could not meet my
                                    debts if I staid & I was not doing my duty to you in Leaving you confined as
                                    you were to a sick bed all of which has harassd my mind not a Little but with it all
                                    I have one consolation and a great one too which is that I believe you to be
                                    satisfied that I was doing for the best and that you was willing I should Leave
                        We have come this far without any accident and I have Every reason to supose we shall
                                    get down Safe the Boat is so Light that we cannot will stave her and the boys can
                                    pull her any place but through the wind. I took cold as is usual with me when I
                                    first come on board the boat not finding quite as comfortable a place to Sleep as a
                                    good feather bed in a warm room I am however getting the better of it & I
                                    calculate in a few days to be the stoutest hand on board. Allen Says I am now three
                                    times a day to wit Breakfast, Dinner, & Supper, he is our
                                    cook and makes a Very good one–we use [that?] top of a chicken coop for a
                                    table & between them & the hogs we have no need of a smelling
                                    Bottle–I believe Allen has not forgotten but once to wash his hands
                                    before making Bread after cleaning out the hog pens so you see we are a very cleanly
                                    set of fellows–Just as you said the old [?] Pantaloons have all gone to
                                    smash at Least the Boys say so I cant see behind me or I should Know for myself. I
                                    mean to take them off some of these days and see if it is as bad as they say that
                                    the whole is gone. Joseph is all fair & makes a Very good hand–
                        I do not Know where this Letter will be mailed perhaps not untill we get to
                                        shawnetown5 in the mean time I shall be filling up the
                                    Ballance of the sheet with nonsence for you cannot expect much Else from me as I am
                                    so situated as to have no news but it is pleasant to me to write to you as while
                                    doing so I allmost [?] I am talking too you instead of writing–which
                                    happiness I trust in providence I shall soon again Enjoy–supper is ready
                                    so good by for the present–
                        Thursday 2 oclock P.M.
                        a Very fine day and we are mooving along in fine spirits we are now about 15 miles
                                    above 
                                        New Harmony
                                    
                           6 & Expect to run all night in which Case we
                                    shall be in the ohio river tomorrow we have [15?] passenger on board going to the
                                    mouth of the river so you see we are not short of hands the hogs are getting fat
                                    & will be in fine order before I get down
                        
                           
                              5 Shawneetown, located in southern 
                                            Illinois
                                         on the Ohio River a short distance below where
                                        it receives the 
                                            Wabash
                                        , was a town of considerable importance in the pioneer era. See R.
                                        Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: The Pioneer Period,
                                        1815-1840 (2 vols., 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1950), I, 40-41, 125, 537, 573, 597, 600; II, 288.
                           
                              6
                              
                                            New Harmony
                                        , situated on the Indiana side of the lower portion of the
                                            Wabash River had been the site of a Harmonist community
                                        under Father George Rapp, 1814-1824, followed immediately by a short lived
                                        community sponsored by Robert Owen.
                        
                        
                        Fryday 28th Feby 1840
                        The sun is Just rising and bids fair to be a pleasant day we are within a few miles
                                    of the mouth of river & shall take Breakfast in the Ohio
                                    River I have ben up all night at the Stearing oar and of course feel
                                    rather Drowsy to write but I Know Allen intends writing so I have Brother Joseph at
                                    the stearng oar and shall finish my Letter before Allen gets up that he may have a
                                    chance to write. The river has driven off more than half of the Inhabitants down
                                    this way. many families have thier stock & Every thing on not more than
                                    ½ an acre of dry Land Many Places we see cattle hogs &c in the
                                    water and no chance of getting away & the water still rising, there must of
                                    neces-sety be a great Loss of property if the river gets much higher the people are
                                    considerably frightened at the prospect I shall send this ashore at shawnetown and
                                    hoping it may come speadily to hand & find you much better than when I Left
                                    home and that we may after a short seperation meet again Long to Enjoy the hapiness
                                    of Each others society
                        
                                    I remain your Loving Husband
                                    Wm P. Dole
                                
                        Jane Dole
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Memphis
                           
                                    March 4th 1840
                                
                        Dr Jane
                        We arrived here about noon to day being Just ten days since we Left home, all well
                                    and in fine Spirits I shall not sell any thing here as prices are Very bad &
                                    Money Good for nothing Corn in the Ear is selling at 62½ pr Bbl Shelled
                                    at 40 cts at Least these are the prices told me here I have not seen any Salt pork
                                    is worth but six Cts pr lb hams 6½ to 7 shoulders 5 to 6 cts Whiskey at
                                    30 cts pr gallon Live hogs are not selling here at all–the news from
                                    below is rather bad being about such as I have given above I fear our Corn
                                    speculation is a bad one but I still hope we will not Loose much7 what I shall get for my hogs it is impossible to tell I think I shall not
                                    Loose any thing on them I have sold most of my hams & shoulders at
                                    6½ to 7 cts which is the highest I have heard of any
                                    selling–When I shall be at home is beyond my power to tell as it entirely
                                    depends on how soon I can make Sales there is no wabash boats8
                                    here at this time & I shall Leave to day So good by
                        
                                    Wm P. Dole
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  7 Since Dole himself seems not to have been a farmer, presumably he had
                        bought corn of farmers in 
                            Vermillion County
                         or along the way. This uncertainty frequently exists concerning corn and other
                        items in these letters. Inasmuch as his trips apparently began either in or near 
                            Vermillion County
                        , it appears probable that most of his cargoes were obtained in this area. The
                        instability of prices and related questions concerning western markets is emphasized in Thomas
                        Senior Berry, Western Prices Before 1861: A Study of the 
                                Cincinnati
                             Market (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1943)
               
                  8 Dole apparently is not referring to a particular type of boat but is
                        suggesting 
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Tuesday 10th March 1840
                                
                        Dear Jane
                        We are now about one days run above Vicksburg runing along Very Well Lashed to Kiles
                                        Boat9 we had a Terrible time night before Last in a Storm we
                                    was runing & about 12 oclock at night a storm came up drove [us] on an Bar
                                        Island10 it was so dark we could not See one another on the
                                    boat when we struck the Island we not Knowing which way to pull to get off attempted
                                    to fasten her when the wind blew a perfect huricane & drove us off into the
                                    river again Leaving Joseph on the Island the wind raved & rain poored down
                                    and we runing as hard as the current & wind both would carry us not Knowing
                                    where we would strike or where we was going the night was so dark that we could not
                                    see trees untill we struck them & tore off a part of our roof, the boat
                                    struck so hard that she checked up a Little & run out on the Bank Just
                                    below, the ground being over flowed & stoped. we had not got off next
                                    morning when Kile came along & Landed helped us off & the Boats are
                                    now together runing along safe enough. Joseph was brot to us next morning in a
                                    skift–I was anxious to hear certain [news] from the N. Orleans market
                                    before we run the boats all the way down and a steam boat comeing along I took
                                    charge of Both Boats & Kile has gone to 
                                        New Orleans
                                     & is to come back & meet me at Natches at Which place
                                    the Boats will wait for him11 I shall probably mail this at 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     tomorrow as I shall go on shore there in a skiff if the Boats do not
                                    land, one of my hands went home from Memphis & I hired another I made five
                                    Dollars by the exchange & got a better hand. I have nothing to say in regard
                                    to my buisiness at home as I have Every Confidence that Robinson will attend to it
                                    & can better Judge what ought to be done than I can from here–You
                                    see [I never?] Let an opertunity pass of 
                              that he did not then know of any flatboats at 
                                                Memphis
                                             which had descended from the Wabash River.
                                            Since March was early in the season, perhaps Dole considered it a favorable
                                            circumstance that he seemed to be ahead of the heavy traffic with a chance
                                            of disposing of his cargo before heavy competition developed.
                              
                                 9 This is probably a reference to William Kile. See
                                                History of 
                                                    Edgar County
                                                , 
                                                    Illinois
                                                
                                  (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1879), 569, where William Kile is named as a partner in the
                                            store which Dole later established at 
                                    Paris, Illinois
                                 . Here and elsewhere mention is made of
                                            the practice of lashing boats together enroute downstream.
                              
                                 10 The changing course of the 
                                                Mississippi
                                             and the 
                                                Ohio
                                             created numerous islands, sandbars, sloughs, cutoffs, and other
                                            obstructions to navigation. Because of such obstructions detailed guides
                                            were published to warn boatmen of their location and give helpful
                                            information on how best to navigate to avoid them. Two of the best known of
                                            these guides were Zadok Cramer's Navigator,
                                            initially published at 
                                                Pittsburgh
                                             in 1801, and Samuel Cummings' Western
                                                Pilot, first published at 
                                                Cincinnati
                                             in 1822. Both guides had a number of editions. For information
                                            concerning them and other guides see Leland D. Baldwin, The
                                                Keelboat Age on Western Waters (
                                                Pittsburgh
                                            , 1941), 56-61. From the letters here published it is uncertain
                                            whether Dole used such a guide.
                              
                                 11 Several of Dole's letters indicate that he
                                            both bought and sold produce at various points along the lower
                                                Mississippi River. Here and there he tells of
                                            information obtained or sought about markets at 
                                                New Orleans
                                             or other places. As these letters illustrate, 
                                                New Orleans
                                             was not the only depot for the cargoes of flatboats even though
                                            it was the principal one.
                           
                                     writing to you & in return I expect to
                                    get a Letter from you in 
                                        N. Orleans
                                     if not in Natches
                        
                                    I Remain Your husband
                                    Truly & effectionately
                                    Wm P Dole
                                
                        Jane Dole
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Vicksburg
                           
                                    12th March 18[40]
                                
                        I have Just Sold fifty head of my hogs here at 6 cts pr lb neat but my money had to
                                    be shaved off12 & the Sale when I got it into good money
                                    amounted to about 4 cts which is a Loosing buisiness I shall Leave here tomorrow
                                    morning for a market below which is said to be no better
                        
                                    Wm P. Dole
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Rodney13
                              
                           
                                    15th March 1840
                                
                        Dear Wife
                        I am now Lying at this Place with my hogs & the Load of corn on which Kile
                                    started. Kile Left the Boats for 
                                        New Orleans
                                     8 days ago & was to Meet me with the news from below (or write)
                                    at Grand Gulph or Natchess what has become of him I cannot tell but he has had more
                                    than time to return & I cannot hear from him. I had an opertunity of selling
                                    some corn here at a price that would save us cost & stopped & sent
                                    Stewart to Natchus for Kile but no Kile or Letter was to be found consequently I am
                                    Left to guess at what to do with the corn I have however conlluded to stop the Load
                                    here as the Price of corn here will pay us back our money while the news from N.
                                    Orl[ans?] is that corn is down to 35 cts pr Bushel & the best I can hear it
                                    is 40 cts which would be a Loossing buisiness–I have Sold about 5.00 [sic] bushels here & all my Pork & Lard the corn
                                    will pay cost & I have made about $100.00 clear on my Little Lot
                                    of Pork which is doing Very well with that. I shall start for N. Orleans this
                                    morning with my hogs as I cannot sell them here & the report from below is
                                    that they are Very Low ther[e?] but raising a Little & I think they will
                                    come up a Little before I Sell. I shall send two or 3 
                              
                                 12 In the 1840s there was no federal bank in
                                            operation, but numerous banks existed under varying degrees of state
                                            supervision. Since banks generally issued notes which circulated as money,
                                            it was often impossible to know their fair exchange value. Hence notes were
                                            frequently discounted by the person or bank which received them, a practice
                                            known as note shaving. In this instance the "shaving" had
                                            been severe–about thirty-three and a third per cent. For a
                                            further discussion of note shaving see Buley, The Old
                                                Northwest, I, 585-86.
                              
                                 13 Samuel Cummlngs, The Western
                                            Pilot (
                                                Cincinnati
                                            , 1840), 113, locates Rodney on the left bank of the 
                                                Mississippi
                                             about forty miles north of Natchez. As used by Cummings, the
                                            left bank is the east bank and the right bank is the west bank of the river.
                                            His estimates of distances are obtained by following the course of the river
                                            and, hence, often much longer than the actual distance. Grand Gulf,
                                            mentioned in the opening paragraph of this letter, was also on the left side
                                            of the 
                                                Mississippi
                                             between Rodney and Vicksburg. Ibid.,
                                        112.
                           
                                     of the hands home from here & this
                                    Letter with some of them–my health is rather on the mend Joseph &
                                    Allen are well No more at Present
                        
                                    Your husband
                                    W. P. Dole
                                
                        Jane Dole
                     
                  
               
                
            1841
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              15 miles below [New] Harmony
                           
                                    night March 30th 1841
                                
                        Dr Jane
                        we having tied up to the willows for the night & calculating to reach the
                                    ohio River tomorrow I have conlluded to commence a Letter to you to be Mailed at
                                    Shawneetown–we have got on safely but slowly so far having Laid by all
                                    day monday at 
                                        Vincennes
                                    
                           14 for wind–my health is Very good and I
                                    believe we shall have no difficulty getting along as we can manage the Boats with
                                    perfect Ease– we have not Lashed the Boats yet but Expect to do so on
                                    reaching the ohio river I have Very Little to say as there is nothing on the river
                                    worth relating & I am not far Enough down to hear anything of the markets
                                    all I can do therefore is to write some thing that you may hear where we are now
                                    & then which is no doubt a satisfaction at Least I Know for myself I could
                                    not enjoy anything more than the news that my Jane & my Babes15 were well, unless it should be the much wished for pleasure of again
                                    meeting them by my own fireside, which pleasure I hope in a few short weeks to
                                    Enjoy–you will not fail of course to write to me–Write
                                    amediately upon the recpt of this to Donaldsonville La16 as I
                                    shall stop there allso to N. Orleans–Kiss my children for me–I
                                    am no believer in Dreams but I have ben all day thinking of William having Dreamed
                                    Last night that I saw him Drowned in the river at Clinton it is getting Late
                                    & I must go to sleep hopping my Dreams will be pleasant for the future, good
                                    night
                        
                                    O had I the Wings of a fairy
                                    Just two or three hours this night
                                    
                              
                                 14
                                            
                                                Vincennes
                                            , located on the 
                                                Wabash
                                             shortly above where it receives the White
                                            River, had been the largest of the outposts which the French had
                                            established in the present Indiana area during the first half of the
                                            eighteenth century. From 1800 until 1813 it had been the capital of the
                                            Indiana Territory. 
                                                New Harmony
                                             and 
                                                Vincennes
                                             were principal points on the 
                                                Wabash
                                             between its mouth and 
                                                Terre Haute
                                            .
                              
                                 15 The two "Babes" were
                                            Dole's children, William and Persis. U. S., Seventh Census,
                                            Indiana, 
                                                Vermillion County
                                            , Clinton, 1, microfilm copy, Genealogy Division, Indiana State
                                            Library. This 1850 census lists William P., age 38, Jane, 32, Persis J., 14,
                                            and William R., 12, Dole.
                              
                                 16 Cummings, Western Pilot, 123,
                                            describes Donaldsonville as the capital of 
                                                Louisiana
                                             and comments that it was rising fast in importance. He locates
                                            it approximately seventy-seven miles above 
                                                New Orleans
                                             and about sixty-two miles below 
                                                Baton Rouge
                                            
                              
                           
                                    
                                    Id Waft myself home to my Jeney
                                    Id Distance the Winds in my flight
                                
                        
                                    Wm P. Dole
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Thursday 31st March or 1st of April
                                
                        I do not know which) a fine sunshiney morning, all well, Just run Blocks Cut off,17 the Boys are Locking the Boats &c &c
                                    &c &c &c &c in fact I have nothing to write unless I
                                    fill the Ballance of this sheet with a Sonnet to my Deary & that to me would
                                    be an up hill buisi-ness–I saw a man this morning Just from N. Orleans he
                                    reports pork rather on the dicline corn firm at $1.00 pr bbl &
                                    scarce if that should be true I shall avail myself of it as there is not much corn
                                    ahead of me on Lamot, gills, Ellison, and other Praries18 the
                                    Corn is yet in the Cribs on the Bank of the river I could have bought on Ellison
                                    Prarie at 15 cts pr Bush (Cash) & Boats @ $1.00 N.
                                    Smith of Vincenes–an old Produce Dealer Reed a Letter from Lindly N.O. a
                                    few days ago stating that sack corn was 42 to 45 & on the rise, if So,
                                    Booh[er?] will no doubt get in in time to receive that price as his Boat must now be
                                    in the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     & his directions were not to stop night or day untill he
                                    arrived at N.O. I have moore hopes of making a Little money this spring than I have
                                    had any spring yet but no telling, untill I get down
                        We shall reach the ohio some time this after noon–we are now Just above
                                        Shawnetown19 and I must close this Letter Mr Edgar wishes to
                                    be remembered to you. The Boys all send their Love to whoom it May
                                        Concern, we shall run all night to night. The Ohio
                                    River is Very high & raising No more at present
                        
                           
                              17 The exact location of Block's Cutoff is not
                                        known, but this letter indicates that it was probably on the lower 
                                            Wabash
                                        . The 
                                            Wabash
                                        , like the 
                                            Mississippi
                                        , also changed its course from time to time. In its issue for April
                                        18, 1835, the 
                                            Vincennes
                                        
                                        Western Sun and General Advertiser included a communication
                                        stating that Edward Smith, an engineer who had been appointed to survey the
                                            Wabash River, with a view to its improvement, would
                                        during the season publish "a chart of the river for navigators, from 
                                            Lafayette
                                         to the mouth of the 
                                            Wabash
                                         …" The anonymous correspondent explained that
                                        such a guide would be duly appreciated by all engaged in boating on the 
                                            Wabash
                                        . If such a guide was ever published, no record of it has survived
                                        apparently.
                           
                              18 David Thomas, an American pomologist, florist, and
                                        writer, who visited Indiana in 1816, described the area which includes these
                                        prairies. He indicates that they could be viewed from the bluff at Merom on the
                                        east side of the Wabash River in 
                                            Sullivan County
                                        , Indiana, between 
                                            Terre Haute
                                         and 
                                            Vincennes
                                        , although they were all located in 
                                            Illinois
                                        . Thomas mentions the La Motte, Ellison, Union, and Gill prairies as
                                        visible from "The beautiful bluff above Turtle Creek
                                            … now called Merom …"
                                        See Harlow Lindley, ed., Indiana As Seen By Early Travelers (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1916), 124-25, 131. With regard to navigation of the
                                            Wabash River Thomas states: "The 
                                            Wabash
                                         is … remarkable for its serpentine course, and from 
                                            Vincennes
                                         to Fort Harrison [near 
                                            Terre Haute
                                        ], which is only reckoned seventy miles by land, it is computed to
                                        be one hundred and fifty by water." IUd., 112-13.
                           
                              19 This letter seems to have been written in stages. In
                                        any event, by the time Shawneetown had been reached the 
                                            Ohio
                                         had of course already been entered.
                        
                        
                        
                                    remember me as I am
                                    Your Loving Husband
                                    Wm P. Dole
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Fort Pickering20
                              
                           
                                    Apr 6th 1841
                                    
                              1½ miles below 
                                    Memphis
                                 
                                 
                                    Tenn
                                 
                              
                           
                                
                        Dr Wife
                        I arrived here this Evening and having an opertunity will write a few Lines to inform
                                    you at Least where we are from time to time how we get along
                                    &c–Edgar has ben sick for the Last few days but is getting some
                                    better SE Patten has strained his Back in Pulling so as be unable to do any thing
                                    & I do not think he will be able to do any thing more this trip so you see
                                    we have a Light Crew of hands which makes Very hard work besides we have had but two
                                    Days without wind since we started & that raft of hoop poles21 is as unmanageable (in wind) as Ed Crob & I
                                    often think of the times you and him have–I have Just been shown by a
                                    Commision merchant of this Place (in whose Counting Room I am writing) a price
                                    courrant of 27 march which is the Latest news from N. Orleans it quotes Corn in
                                    Sacks firm at 45 to 48 in Ear pr Bbl 65 to 70 cts pork has declined a Little mess
                                    12.00 to 12.75 prime 9.00 Bulk pork 4¼ to 4½22–I have allso seen a man this Evening Just from N. Orleans who
                                    says the above statement of Prices was correct say 8 Days ago he says allso that
                                    hoop poles is worth 30 to 35.00 hoops would be some thing Less if I get
                                    $25 I shall be satisfied Booher is ahead but how far I do not Know
                                    something Like 100 miles I supose perhaps more Scott Mol[ain?] Passed me in the
                                        Ohio River but he is not far ahead as I have ben close
                                    after him untill to day–we shall Leave here tomorrow morning as fast as
                                    possible for the Coast. Booher will I think get in in time to get 45 cts at Least
                                    for my shelld Corn & 35 cts for my oats if so that Land will pay me a profit
                                    of about $2.00. what I shall be able to do with my Land is more than I
                                    can yet tell a few days moore will tell the story however–My grocery
                                    Licence must be Renewed in may–Judge [Tingle?] or Bales would attend to
                                    it for me no doubt. 
                              
                                 20 Fort Pickering is not mentioned in the 1840 edition
                                            of Cummings' Western Pilot. But
                                            Cummings' The Western Pilot (
                                                Cincinnati
                                            , 1841), 95-96, indicates its location as about three miles
                                            below Memphis. He also suggests that it then had decidedly the advantage
                                            over Memphis in the river business on account of its landing and bid fair to
                                            become a place of importance. It is worth noting that in this letter Dole
                                            has a similar comment and predicts that Fort Pickering will doubtless take
                                            the lead over Memphis.
                              
                                 21 Hoop poles were slender green saplings, often white
                                            oak or hickory, which were bent around barrels in circular form with their
                                            ends tied together to hold the staves of barrels in place. Because pork and
                                            other items were packed in barrels, hoop poles were much in demand as
                                            Dole's letters indicate.
                              
                                 22 The varying grades and kinds of pork are discussed
                                            in Berry, Western Prices Before 1861, 232-33.
                           
                                     the commissoners would pass an order for the
                                    isue of the Licence & I will pay the money & take them out as soon
                                    as I return23–this place which was no place at all at
                                    Least a town Last spring is now becoming a rival of Memphis & will I have no
                                    doubt take the Lead of it, in time as the Memphis Rail Road terminates here
                                    & the Landing is good there is a Sale of Lot on the 28th Inst
                        I believe I have nothing moore to say at Present
                        
                                    Yours truly
                                    Wm P. Dole
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Rodney
                           
                                    Apr 15th 1841
                                
                        Dear Wife
                        I arrived here Last night at Dark all well but rather out of sorts
                                    in Consequence of the difficulty of making sales Corn is worth here 75 pr Bbl when
                                    it can be Sold at all but there is nothing but a retail buisiness doing &
                                    that slow the farmers having most of their Corn on hand of their own Raising Mess
                                    Pork is selling at 13.00 here from store but no one can obtain that price but a
                                    Commision Merchant My old friend Bone offers to sell my Produce for me but I fear it
                                    will detain me here to Long and I am anxious to get on the coast with my hoops which
                                    is now worth there (as well as N.O.) 30 to 35.00 pr thousand but if I have my usual
                                    Luck they will fall before I can get in–the Last price Courant Reed here
                                    marks Sack Corn in N.O. at 47 to 48 & advancing this was on the 7th Inst
                                    Just 7 Days ago the report here is that it has gone up to 50 & 55 cts Booher
                                    must now be in 
                                        N. Orleans
                                     or was there & the prosp[ect] is that the shelld Corn will pay
                                    me a fair profit oats has allso advanced to 40 & 45 cts pr Bushel pork is
                                    Low & falling Mess $12 & on the decline Bulk Pork 31/2 to
                                    4 Corn in the Ear must fall to 5 bits24 or Lower I saw some sold
                                    at 
                                        Vicksberg
                                     at 561/4 pr bbl by the load I still ask 75 but have not been able to
                                    get it yet Except for a few Bbls I shall probably not stop again untill I arrive at
                                    Baya Sara where I shall commence coasting25–Esqr
                                    Paine is here we have ben together since we Left Vicksberg he wishes you to say to
                                    Mrs Paine that he is well so is his hands [J?] Cook & Ellis & Wm
                                    Barrick–my hands are all well–there is general Mourning here
                                    in Consequence of the Reported Death of Gen 
                              
                                 23 In the pioneer era both groceries and taverns
                                            commonly sold liquor and were among businesses which were generally
                                            licensed.
                              
                                 24 Since a bit was a Mexican coin worth twelve and one
                                            half cents, five bits would equal sixty-five cents. Western dependence on
                                            silver coins of Mexican and Spanish origin is noted in Berry, Western Prices Before 1861, 362-63, 487-89, and passim.
                              
                              
                                 25 Bayou Sara was located on on the left side of the
                                            river about thirty-six miles north of 
                                    Baton Rouge, Louisiana
                                 , as indicated in Cummings, Western Pilot (1840), 119. The remark about
                                            "coasting" may possibly indicate that Dole thought
                                            navigation would no longer be necessary.
                           
                                    
                                    
                                        Harrison
                                     which I supose is true beyond a Doubt26 John Payton
                                    is behind how far I cannot tell Dowing is ahead, when I shall be at home is
                                    uncertain but I shall be as expeditious as I can & I think I shall make a
                                    shorter trip than Last year–I believe I have no further news I can say
                                    nothing about buisiness for I have forgot all about it having so much to think of
                                    here do the best you can Charles must be industrious in making Collections
                        
                                    Your Husband
                                    Wm P. Dole
                                
                        Jane Dole
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    New Orleans
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Wensday April [?]th 1841
                                
                        Dr Jane
                        Having an opertunity of sending a Line To you by Wm Barrick who will start home
                                    tomorrow I take a few moments while Every one Else is asleeping to write to you
                                    allthough I have nothing of importance to say I reed your Letter a few days after I
                                    arrived here dated 1st Apr I first called at the P.O. came away much out of sorts as I went Expecting a Letter & found none it was
                                    afterwards handed me by Hadden who had forgotten he had it for me. I was pleased to
                                    Receive it allthough written so soon after I Left home but should be better pleased
                                    to get one of a Later date which I am in hopes I shall do tomorrow–the
                                    Boys will get home before you Receive this & will no doubt tell all the news
                                    so that on that acount I need not Enter into particulars–my corn I sold
                                    on the coast as I before wrote you, at a small profit as well as part of my Lard
                                    & hams & shoulders all my hogs heads &c. I sold after
                                    Leaving Donald [son ?] ville 17,000 hoops 6 at $18.00 & 11 at
                                    $20.00 pr thousand which was about cost–the Balance being
                                    28,000 I Brought into the citty & fortunately sold all of them at
                                    $22.50 cts pr thousand to some planters below N.O. they bought my Boat
                                    @ $15.00 and after taking 8,000 out here I have to send Joseph
                                    18 miles down below N.O. to see to counting out the Ballance he will start by
                                    daylight in the morning & will probably be gone two days–so you
                                    see I have wound the old Hoop pole Boat up after a hard sweat at about
                                    $1.00 profit–the Last of the sack corn sold today 186 sacks
                                    @ 46 cts for coffee & sugar coffee @ 11¼
                                    & suger 6¾ in Bbls which was a good sale corn can be had now on
                                    the Levy at from 40 to 44–the Last price [?]is 44 being the Loast any of
                                    my corn has been sold for it will average 46 cts or near it my Beans will not sell
                                    at all at least not for more than 200 pr Bbl I have put them in store at Olneys
                                    & shall Leave them, the chickens was sold at $4¼ pr
                                    Doz I have not yet setted the ac[coun]t of sales with 
                              
                                 26 According to" Dorothy Burne Goebel, William Henry Harrison: A Political Biography (Indiana
                                                Historical Collections, Vol. XIV; 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1926), 377, President Harrison died April 4, 1841.
                           
                                     whitcomb & Booher &
                                    consequently cannot tell how it will come out but I think it must pay a fair profit
                                    allthough there has ben a considerable Expence here for sucking &c,
                                    &c. I have nothing now to sell but my bbl pork which goes to inspection
                                    tomorrow & if it stands the Racket there271 shall have no difficulty in selling it at 12 for mess $10.50
                                    for M.O. & 9 for ch[o]ice & I may do a Little Better as pork is a
                                    Little on the Look up in consequence of all the heavy dealers having stored all
                                    their pork & Limited it a few Dollars above the market which makes small
                                    Lots of good Bbl pork go off a Little more ready but bad Enough yet in all
                                    consience–Bulk pork is Very Low choice Lots 4 cts hog [?] & from
                                    that down to 2½, Lard 6½ to 7 cts & in good
                                    demand–Esqr Paine is here With one Boat the Hoops he Left down the
                                    Bya[uu?] which I think will be a Losing buisiness–corn is rather on the
                                    decline here at present 75 slow at Retail & 62½ by the good 4
                                    foot guage some sales are made on better terms but that is realy the market price
                                    but it must come up in 2 or 3 weeks & if had not had so hard a time this
                                    spring & become perfectly wore down I should buy corn on speculation and
                                    stay a while Longer. I shall as it is start home whithin a week so I now
                                    think–I shall buy as many groceries as I did Last spring and if I can get
                                    Cr a considerable amt more & I want all the collections made that can
                                    possibly be made to pay for Freight I would send you some money for my Bank debt but
                                    think I shall be home by that time, as this Letter is rather a price courrant than a
                                    buisiness or Love Letter you can show it to Dr. Kile if has any wish to hear from
                                    the market–I shall get the money due the Dr & myself from Mr [?]
                                    $74.00–I am writing in the Boat where the musquetoes are as
                                    thick as you can imagine & I cannot stand them any Longer so adieu for a few
                                    days when I shall put up at your Tavern for the summer.
                        
                                    Wm P. Dole
                                
                        Jane B. Dole N. B. Whitcomb, Booher & myself will Likely start
                                    home together say next Sunday or a day or two Later
                     
                  
               
                
            1842
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Ap the 1 1842
                                
                        Dear William
                        haveing an oppertunity of writing to you I wont let it pass un-imp [roved] I have
                                    nothing to good to write the Measles ar still rage-ing yet we ar all getting aloung
                                    slowly except William, he took [ill ?] 
                              
                                 27 The term "suck" generally
                                            indicates some kind of cheat or deception. Here it seems to be used to
                                            indicate money lost through inspection irregularities. Inspection laws as
                                            well as questions regarding weights and measures are considered in Berry,
                                                Western Prices Before 1861. See in particular Chapter
                                            VI, 139-54. See also 232-33 concerning the grading and inspection of
                                        pork.
                           
                                     the day you left he got aloung with the Measles
                                    rather better than rest of us did but after they went in on him he took cold and it
                                    settle on his loungs he has been very sick and I cant say he is any better but I am
                                    in hopes he will get aloung with good atention I have not had a good night sleep
                                    since you left my own health is very bad there has ben Several Deaths since you left
                                    Kaitharn Rush old Mrs Downing and some others in the Country
                        Sonday Aprail the 3
                        I cominence this letter to send on the flat Boat but the Watter fell so fast we
                                    thought it best not to start it we heard the water on the Rappids28 was not suff iciant to let it over and no prospect of a rise soon I
                                    concluded to finish it and send it by Mail I think William is better but he has ben
                                    very sick about the time william was the worst I herd you was coming home on the
                                    Sparton it got here on Frady Mornig about daylight I was shure you was on it in a
                                    bout [10?] Minates I herd some person step on the porch and you May guess how my
                                    heart Jumpt but 0 how I was disappointed it was Mr Swan he brougt
                                    me a letter its true was a satisfaction but nothing in comparison to what I was
                                    expecting but I am in hops it is better so if you had come I could not let you go
                                    again for I never could bear a nother parting for belief me that during a period of
                                    your absence I cannot partakes of any real enjoyment because all I do is alloyd by
                                    the knowledg of kowing my heart beloved cannot enjoy it with me
                        I toll Mr Downing of his Mothe[r's] Death Peara has ben very sick but is
                                    gettin [g ?] bette rest of his Children are getting
                        you must excuse my bad writing for William has ben crying all the time I have ben
                                    writeing for me to rock him I will write soon abetter letter Sos you can read it
                        
                                    yours truly
                                    Jane Dole
                                
                        W P Dole
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    April 8th 1842
                                    
                              5 miles below Tenn River
                              
                           
                                
                        Dear Jane
                        You will no doubt be surprised at the slow pace we are travelling as it is now
                                    upwards of two weeks since we Left home & we are not out of the 
                                        Ohio
                                    . Since I wrote from shawneetown the wind has ben constantly blowing so
                                    that we have only arrived at this place about 80 miles in five Days, if we were
                                    alone I should think we might perhaps be wasting our time but as all the Boats that
                                    crossed the rapides on the same day & most that crossed the day before we
                                    did, are strung along the shore aboive & below us we think we have done our
                                    duty 
                              
                                 28 This is possibly a reference to the Grand Rapids
                                            below 
                                                Vincennes
                                             described in note 2.
                           
                                     The ohio is quite Low and from the quantity of
                                    Sand Bars that Stare us in the face at Every turn we think it unsafe to run windy
                                    days or dark nights. AB Cuninghons (with Conkeys Boats) is fast on a Bar at the
                                    mouth of Tennessee River or Paduca.29 Jno
                                    Payton is here with us–Downing is ahead–
                        As we had to Lay by yesterday for wind & as Conkey is one
                                    of my particular friends I turned out all hands yesterday with Paytons Crew to help
                                    Andy off the Bar & succeeded in getting one Boat off & as we had
                                    done so much good we concluded to Lay by today allthough the wind had nearly abated
                                    and get the other off So all hands are up helping him while I am taking care of my
                                    Boats & writing to you which is next to the pleasure of talking to you as I
                                    sometimes while writing forget that you are not preasent–my boats are
                                    tight and Easily managed & I aprehend no difficulty in getting down safe but
                                    shall be in no hurry as I Expect to have to wait for a market if I sh[oul?]d go
                                    amediately down. I supose Dibble is probably on the way if there is water, in which
                                    case he will probably overtake me– where I shall mail this is uncertain
                                    probably at cario [
                                        Cairo
                                    , 
                                        Illinois
                                    ]
                        Saturday 9th April (morning)
                        I had written the foregoing with a pencil having Lost my Ink but having got some
                                    yesterday concluded to write over the pencil marks & Let it go–We
                                    got Andy off yesterday and he is afloat Just ahead well pleased as you may be
                                    sure–we floated all night and are not far from the mouth of the ohio
                                    there is now 17 of us (all from clinton) in company so we are far from Lonesome when
                                    we can forget "the girl we Left behind us" Especially as there are
                                    two fiddles & five fiddlers in company we have music at all tims of day
                                    & night–it is really delightful when floating along in the night
                                    to hear played some good march which as it rebounds from the hills over the water
                                    allmost persuades you that you are realy answered by another instrument instead of
                                    an Echo
                        
                        Mr Yeager of Perrysville30 is allso in company with us he is sick
                                    at Least so as not to be able to be up Long at a time he is now in bed in our boat
                        I have a note somewhere in my notes against Goodin Holiway of 
                                        Terre Haute
                                     payable to I. T. Richardson which I wish sued if not Paid on
                                    presentation–tell Dick allso to settle with F. H.
                                    Mitchel if he can before he Goes down the River–allso have Chester Clark
                                    get a note on F. H. Mitchel which he is to Let me have for some Lumber &c
                                    which he got of me–Mr Clark will furnish a bill of the Lumber which 
                              
                                 29
                                            
                                                Paducah
                                            , 
                                                Kentucky
                                            , is located at the mouth of the Tennessee
                                            River. Cum-mings, Western Pilot (1840), 72,
                                            describes a large sandbar at the mouth of this river.
                              
                                 30 This is apparently a reference to Perrysville,
                                            Indiana, situated on the Wabash River in the northern
                                            part of 
                                                Vermillion County
                                            .
                           
                                     charge to his ac[coun]t & credit him
                                    with the amt of the note he gives you on Mitchel. the Lumber is $125 per
                                    hundred (inch measure)–I want W. A. Richardson to Have F H Mitchels notes
                                    on his corn & the quicker it is done the Better as Richardson may require
                                    money of me if he does not get notes in time consequently push Mr Clark to get the
                                    note–Tell Harlly to collect if Possible the amt he Lent
                                    to Enos Sumpter he can probably secure it by some person f [rom?] whoom he goes down
                                    the river–Tell Dick if he can use the Shawneetown money
                                    which I Left in the pocketBook to buy Whiskey or can change it off for other money
                                    to do so–it is at Par along the river for goods–but cannot be
                                    changed for other moneys–the state Bank is worse, in Fa[c]t I cannot use
                                    it at all–
                        The prices below for corn is [so] Low that I do not Like to ma[ke] th[e] [fi]gures so
                                    shall Let it go til ni[ght] Time
                        
                                    Remember me to all friends
                                    yours affectionately
                                    W. P. Dole
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Clinton
                           
                                    April 21th 1842
                                
                        Dear William
                        I take this opportunity of writing to you, and I donot know wht to write, for it has
                                    been so long since I heard from you. it has been 3 weeks since I heard from you. I
                                    got a letter from Shawnetown and I expected another in a short time but was
                                    disapointed from mail to mail if there is anything the matter of courese you are
                                    excuseable but if not I think I have good reason to scold, for it has caused me a
                                    great deal of uneasiness. I have written 4 letters to you, and I think you will get
                                    some of them. I directed them all to 
                                        New Orleans
                                    , for I thought it the most certain place to get them I have been sick
                                    since you left home, but am a little better now So that I can Sit up Some I cant
                                    tell you what has been the matter for it has been every thing but the worst was a
                                    pain in my head and side the Doctor thinks I took cold after the Measles and settle
                                    in my Side I want you to come home as quick as you can I dont want to make you
                                    uneasy and neglect your buisness to come for I have all atention that is nesesary I
                                    have had the Doctor but I dont think he done me any good and I quit takeing his
                                    Medison for he is not my Doctor notime he only came when it suited him. it is bad
                                    [to?] be a lone and be well but it is much worse to be sick. I have been alone 2
                                    before but I dont think I ever past the time So unhappy before I have not been well
                                    anugh to ride out any yet and but little of time that I could leave my room but one
                                    sattisfaction I have to know the time will come when you will be with me at
                                    home–I want you not to make arangements to go back their again but I fear
                                    if the prices be as bad as we here they ar that you  will not have the chance to go a gain but I have made
                                    up my mind for the worst and if I am disappointed let it be a greeable so but one
                                    satisfaction greater then all others is to know that I have you for wich is all the
                                    real happiness I want in this world with you I could be happy let my sittuation be
                                    what it may it is t[im ?] e I quit wrteing for I am writing so bad you cant read it
                                    but I deserve credit for writing as well as I do for I have a very soar Blister on
                                    the Back of my neck and I know you know somthing a bout that I
                                    have Sent to the postoffice and if I dont get aletter I Shall think you ar Sick or
                                    have forgotten me one or the other Shure but I am disappointed again I think you ar
                                    retalliateting you ought to look over the past I have written every week since you
                                    left home but last week and I didnot set up one hour in a day
                        Dick saw Mr Dandy this morning he told him he saw you last Wenday was a week in 
                                        N. Orleans
                                     that is the first I heard since you left Shanetown I was pleased to
                                    hear you was well that was all he kew I supposes you had gone on a Steamboat to see
                                    what the Markets was below from the account he gives they ar verry bad and the river
                                    full of Boats all the way up–the 
                                        Wabash
                                     is verry high at this time I think it will not be nesesary fo[r] me to
                                    write again for I think you will be Started home before it would get t[here?] I
                                    believe I havenot any thing more to [write?] and I cant write any longer if I had
                                    for my hand trimbles so bad the Children ar both well William Bails Wife has been
                                    Sick three weeks the Docte[r] says she cant live I never Saw as mutch sickness at
                                    this [season] of the year in my life Mr Ray has Book 100.00 Dollars for Coffins
                                    since you left
                        Dick and the grocery is getting along slow but Shure he is verry atentive to his
                                    buisness he has been verry good since you left verry agreeable indeed I want you to
                                    take good care of yourself and come home as quick as you ca [n]
                        
                                    Your loveing Wife
                                    Jane Dole
                                
                        W P Dole
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Rodney
                           
                                    7th May 1842
                                
                        Dear Jane
                        I arrived here from N. Orleans a few moments ago and found Dibble here waiting for me
                                    with his hands all well 
                                        Wells
                                     was allso still here with the Boat I Left he had made no sales as the
                                    price was 37½ pr bbl & my dirictions was to take no Less than 50
                                    cts
                        I wrote you a Line from N. Orleans by Judiah Malone but was in a hurry when I wrote
                                    & could not give you near all the particulars which is the Case now I
                                    received 3 Letters from you all together Just before Leaving N. Orleans one datd the
                                    3d one the 9th & one 20th April which had they not contained the fact of
                                    your bad health would  have been a source of
                                    great pleasure to me I hope however you have recovered your health by this time
                                    & will try & reconcile yourself to our seperation for a short time
                                    yet–I believe I wrote to you that I had sold my shelled Corn @
                                    34 cts pr Bushel which is a Loss of a bout $120.00 on the Load I made a
                                    Little on my chickens which will Leave the Loss about $100 What I shall
                                    do with the Bal is uncertain I am in hoops however to do at Least as well but I
                                    shall have to stay some time to do it Such times never was seen on this river as the
                                    present Every thing down to Al most nothing potatoes have ben sold at 25 cents pr
                                    Barrel Corn 12½ to 18 cts pr Bushel & 25 cts the highist, Bacon
                                    well smoked @ 21½ cts Bulk pork 1½ to 2 cents
                                    & very often Less flour is now down to 4.00 Live hogs to 2 cents pr lb neat
                                    Hoop poles 2 to 5$ pr thousand (I hear Davidson sold at 17$)
                                    and Every thing Equally Low. good sugar has ben sold at 1½ cents pr lb
                                    Coffee 8 to 9½ &C &C–Esqr Hayworth of 
                                        Park County
                                     & myself Bought 3 Loads corn at 
                                        Natchez
                                     yesterday as I came up at 31 cts by the 4ft guage pr Barrel to be
                                    delivered in 
                                        N. Orleans
                                     on which I think we shall make some money I supose you will be sorry to
                                    hear that I am buying Corn but you must bear it patiently, it seems Like folly for
                                    me to come home and spend the summer brooding over my misfortunes with nothing to do
                                    & nothing but ruin staring me in the face so far as buisiness is concerned
                                    & consequently I think it best for me to En-deaver to do something here it
                                    may be better, it cannot be much worse I have Every confidence that Dick will do
                                    Every thing in his power for my benefit I want him to credit but Little &
                                    collect Every :ent he can I may send up a few groceries before I come. If not, I yet
                                    Expect to buy before I Leave here I was pleased at the arrangement made for weddings
                                    Corn as it is bad Enough to have a full Load & worse than bad to have all
                                    the Expences with part of a Load while you manage that well my Interest will not
                                    suffer much allthough I am from home
                        I think the time for a man to show himself worthy of the name is when he is in
                                    difficulty & for me to give up the ghost (as the saying
                                    is) untill the Last dog is dead would be acting the coward & not useing that
                                    Energy which is due from Every man to his family, these are difficult times and are
                                    only to be overcome by men who have to much spirit to go down untill the Last hope
                                    is Lost & I am one whose hope is pretty strongly develloped. Look fo[r] me
                                    about the middle of June. You shall however hear from me often–I was
                                    sorry to hear that you would not write again after your Last Letter I hope you will
                                    take the trouble to write several Letters after that one as I shall be at 
                                        N. Orleans
                                     Long Enough to get some of them–We shall Leave here for N.
                                    Orleans in the Course of an hour where I shall shell all my Corn & if the
                                    market holds at what it was when I Left then sell  a mediately if not I shall hold on a while–my health never was better
                                    & you need not fear for me I think as I am allways well in the
                                    south–Dr Kile will I fear disapoint me in the money he was to pay in N.
                                    O. So you was right again & I think hereafter I shall be more ready to take
                                    your advice
                        
                                    Yours allways
                                    W. P. Dole
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            1843
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    May 9th 1843
                                
                        Dr Jane
                        As we are Laying up to shore for stormy Weather I have concluded to write you a few
                                    Lines to pass off the time we are now in the chute of Island No 40 15 miles above
                                        Memphis31 & about half way from home to 
                                        New Orleans
                                     we have ben from home 13 Days and ought to have ben as Low as Vicksburg
                                    but the weather has ben Very bad since we came into this river we have only run one
                                    night and it stormed all that night–we tried to run to day & Came
                                    abought 8 miles but the wind & rain drove us in to shore Every river is Very
                                    high the wabash was higher than I Ever saw it at the Lower part of it hardly a
                                    family was Left on its banks & the water 4 foot deep in some of the
                                    houses–the ohio was allso Very high & rising fast–the
                                    Missippi is higher than I Ever saw it the people have in many places Left for high
                                    Land some are Living in Boats–some have their Cattle, hogs, &
                                    horses, up on stages built up for that purpose & some are Left to be
                                    drowned, we have seen Cattle belly deep in the water & no Land to go to,
                                    & hogs swimig about trying to get on the Logs & drift–all
                                    this you Know makes it harder for us to get along–as for prices of
                                    produce in 
                                        N. Orleans
                                     I have not heard a word since I Left home I do not Expect it to be high
                                    there is so many boats on the river
                        if the weather Clears up we Can reach N Orleans in 10 or 12 days & I think I
                                    wi[ll?] Certainly be home by the 10 of June perhaps a Little sooner–it
                                    has been Very Cold on the river it seems Like March weather instead of
                                    May–the fruit trees are all in Bloom here but there is Little or no
                                    planting done yet
                        I am getting a Little home sick a thing not Very common for me so you may Calculate
                                    on my being home as soon as possible–in the mean time take care of
                                    yourself [There?] would [Little else?] to charm & be [n ?] o home for me if
                                    you was not there to share it with 
                              
                                 31 Cummings, Western Pilot (1840),
                                            95, refers to Beef Island as island Number 40. He describes it as a large
                                            island lying nearer the eastern shore and gives very explicit instructions
                                            concerning how to navigate past it. Cummings indicates that it is situated
                                            about twenty-two miles above Memphis.
                           
                                     me on my return–with all my Love of
                                    mony I believe you Know it is not the end but the means of happiness for which I
                                    seek it & as Burns says I wish mony not to hide it in a hedge–but
                                    for the glorious priveledge of being indipendant & to me the pleasure would
                                    be more than doubled by sharing it with a wife whose principle aim is the peace,
                                    Comfort, & happiness of her husband–& such a wife have I
                        Wensday morning 10th May
                        we are now in sight of Memphis & I hasten to finish this Letter, the weather
                                    is yet cloudy & windy but I have got tired of Laying at shore and not at
                                    shore Either for my Boat has not touched Land since I Left 
                                        Terre Haute
                                    –neither have I ben ashore since we Left there so you must
                                    supose I am getting tired of the Boat–Let Saml Mitchels wife Know he is
                                    well–we shall not Land at 
                                        Memphis
                                    –Yours Truly & forever
                        
                                    W. P. Dole
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               At the Headwaters of the Maumee: A History of the Forts of 
                            Fort Wayne
                        . By Paul Woehrmann. Introduction by Richard C. Knopf. Indiana
                        Historical Society Publications, Volume 24. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1971. Pp. xv, 306. Illustrations, notes, sources cited,
                    index. Paperbound, $3.00.)
            In 1794 when the new American military post of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     was occupied, General Anthony Wayne wrote to Colonel John Francis Hamtramck, the first
                    commander, that the fort "may well be esteemed the Key or barrier between the Navigable
                    waters of the Gulphs of 
                        Mexico
                     & 
                        St. Lawrence
                     as well as between the Indian tribes settled along the margins of those waters;
                    & as such it has always been considered both by the French & British who make it a
                    grand deposit for their Indian warehouses or Stores" (p. 49). This insight of General
                    Wayne's is the theme of Professor Woehrmann's book. He thus gives a proper
                    emphasis to the often neglected fact that the headwaters of the Maumee, where 
                        Fort Wayne
                     was built, formed one of the great crossroads in the West. 
                        Fort Wayne
                     was a key spot for Indian trade and for military control over a large area.
            Noting first the history of the French and the British at the location, Woehrmann moves quickly to
                    the story of American activity at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     from its founding to its abandonment in 1819. Using a chiefly topical arrangement, he
                    discusses the establishment of the fort as a culmination of the drive against the 
                        Miami
                     Indians that was mounted by Josiah Harmar, Arthur St. Clair, and 
                        Wayne
                    , the administrative and logistical problems of the post, the history of the government
                    trading factory and the Indian agency at the site, and the vital role played by 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in the War of 1812. He has filled in with great detail the well known outline of events
                    at the fort and agency by heavy reliance on the letters and reports of the government officials and
                    agents who operated there. In his accounts of the interplay between Indian missionaries, factors,
                    Indian agents, and army officers he shows clearly how personal conflicts endangered the smooth
                    operation of the federal Indian policy and by such case studies helps to illustrate a larger
                    picture. Even though, as Woehrmann asserts, the fort was "largely a failure to 1812 as a
                    government trading post, as a center of ‘civilization,’ and as an Indian
                    agency" (p. 256), it managed to survive the severe military test of the War of 1812 and
                    thereby guaranteed American control in the area.
            The book, though thoroughly researched and neatly printed, is seriously marred by a dissertation
                    style that should have been revised before the work was published. Items from the sources are often
                    strung out like a chronicle rather than used as materials from which  to create a readable narrative or a stimulating analysis, and rough
                    spots in composition are a frequent irritant to the reader.
            
               Marquette University, Milwaukee Francis Paul Prucha
         
         
            
               Indiana to 1816: The Colonial Period. By John D. Barnhart & Dorothy L.
                    Riker. The History of Indiana, Volume I. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Bureau & Indiana Historical Society, 1971. Pp. xvi, 520.
                    Notes, maps, illustrations, bibliography, index. Clothbound, $7.50; paperbound,
                    $4.50.)
            In recent years considerable effort has been made to utilize election returns, voting patterns in
                    legislative bodies, population figures, and other statistical data to provide computerized
                    information hitherto unavailable to the historian. An older method corrective of generalized
                    statements relating to American history has been the production of scholarly accounts, often in a
                    number of volumes, of the history of the various states. Pioneering in this field was The Centennial History of 
                            Illinois
                        , edited by Clarence W. Alvord, in five volumes (
                        Springfield
                    , 1918-1920). The volume here under review is part of a projected five volume series
                    commemorating Indiana's sesqui-centennial of statehood. Volume III, Indiana in
                        the Civil War Era, 1850-1880, by Emma Lou Thornbrough of Butler University, appeared in
                    1965, followed by Volume IV, Indiana in Transition: The Emergence of an Industrial
                        Commonwealth, 1880-1920 (1968), by Clifton J. Phillips of DePauw University. John D.
                    Barnhart, long a leader in the study and writing of Indiana, was scheduled to write the present
                    volume. After his illness and then his death in December, 1967, Dorothy L. Riker, senior editor of
                    the Indiana Historical Society, completed the assignment. The resulting volume traces
                    Indiana's history from the days of the prehistoric Indians to the coming of statehood.
            The chapter "Indiana's Prehistory" by James H. Kellar, archaeologist for
                    the Indiana Historical Society, is an erudite study, which in parts may seem somewhat technical to
                    the average reader. Other chapters give careful attention to topics discussing international
                    rivalries, conflicts with the Indian, struggles between the supporters of Governor William Henry
                    Harrison and his opponents, and the economic problems of pioneer life. Interesting material is
                    presented concerning members of the Constitutional Convention of 1816. Only nine members had never
                    lived south of the Mason-Dixon Line (p. 443), but the constitutional fathers took pains to eliminate
                    the undemocratic features found in "the early fundamental law of the southern states with
                    their property qualifications for office holding and  voting,
                    unequal representation, and protection of slavery, which tended to produce an aristocratic social
                    structure" (p. 463).
            A few minor errors may be noted. In connection with the pre-revolutionary period 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and other colonies are referred to as "states" (pp. 102, 105); East 
                        Florida
                     was not a French possession prior to 1763 (p. 148); and the Stamp Act was passed in
                    1765, not 1764 (p. 159). It would be more precise, moreover, in locating Fort Steuben (p. 247), to
                    say that it was on the present site of Steubenville twenty-three miles north of Wheeling.
            The research involved in this study has been very extensive and makes readily available much
                    knowledge concerning the area which became the second oldest state of the Old Northwest.
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         State University, 
                            Columbus
                        
                Francis P. Weisenburger
         
         
            
               Albert J. Beveridge: American Nationalist. By John Braeman. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1971. Pp. x, 370. Notes, bibliographical notes, index. $12.50.)
            Few political leaders from the American past offer the historian and biographer a more rewarding and
                    challenging subject than Indiana's Albert Jeremiah Beveridge. He touched the political
                    culture of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries at a number of strategic and revealing
                    points–midwestern Republicanism, GOP conservatism, imperialism, Rooseveltian
                    progressivism, insurgency, and the Progressive party of 1912–and to understand the
                    dynamics of his leadership is to understand a great deal of the political history of that epoch. One
                    of the earliest scholarly works to be written on the progressive movement, Claude G.
                    Bowers' Beveridge and the Progressive Era (1932), is a full length study
                    of his career. Bowers made good use of the voluminous Beveridge papers, and his spirited account has
                    been one of the most durable studies of American progressivism. But Bowers, a friend and admirer of
                    the Indiana leader, did not produce an objective and probing interpretation, and the appearance of
                    new source materials and new historical approaches has rendered his volume increasingly inadequate.
                    Professor John Braeman, a young historian at the University of 
                        Nebraska
                    , has now written a book that meets the need for a modern biography.
            Braeman began work on Beveridge as a result of his interest in the progressive movement, and in this
                    biography he has sought to illuminate the complexity and the paradox of progressivism. The book is
                    based on impressive research in the Beveridge papers, numerous collateral collections, Indiana
                    newspapers, public documents, and Beveridge's own extensive writings. It is superbly
                    organized and  well proportioned in its coverage. Braeman
                    succeeds in locating Beveridge both in the tangle of Indiana politics and in the broader milieu of
                    the national political scene. He throws a good deal of light on the unending factional struggles
                    within Indiana's Republican party. He is sympathetic toward his subject but forthright in
                    dealing with Beveridge's less attractive qualities. The heart of Braeman's study
                    is the treatment of Beveridge's political career–particularly his two terms in
                    the Senate and his experiences as a member of the Progressive party. But careful consideration is
                    also given to Beveridge's writing of history, and in this respect, as in many others,
                    Braeman goes far beyond Bowers.
            Beveridge was throughout life an ardent nationalist and a thoroughgoing Hamiltonian. He was
                    "never temperamentally a radical or even a reformer," his new biographer asserts.
                    "He was a worshiper of order, efficiency, and material progress" (p. 273). Braeman
                    does not resolve all of the paradoxes in Beveridge's career, but his interpretation of the
                    major aspects of the Hoosier's politics is generally sound and persuasive. He is not as
                    clear as he might be on the reasons for Beveridge's shift to progressivism, on the
                    relationship between his views on foreign policy and his domestic reformism, and on his growing
                    conservatism in his later years. One also misses a sharply etched overall interpretation of this
                    remarkable man. Although Braeman seems to avoid psychoanalytic explanations, he displays poise,
                    common sense, and critical judgment in elucidating Beveridge's thought and behavior.
                    Indeed, the merits of this scholarly and well written biography, one of the best yet written of a
                    key progressive leader, will commend it to all serious students of Indiana history and of the recent
                    American past.
            
               Vanderbilt University, 
                            Nashville
                        
                Dewey W. Grantham
         
         
            
               Robert Owen: Aspects of His Life and Work. Edited by John Butt. (
                        New York
                    : Humanities Press, 1971. Pp. 265. Illustrations, notes, appendices, tables, index.
                    $11.50.)
            Several colleagues of the editor, John Butt, in the department of economic history at Strathclyde
                    University in 
                        Scotland
                     have written this series of essays. This university is in close proximity to New
                    Lanark, the site of Robert Owen's industrial empire and the seat of his early innovations
                    in the field of factory and educational reforms. The essays examine several areas of Owen's
                    life and experiences, starting with his rise from small beginnings as a cotton spinner to his
                    position of leadership in the field of cotton manufacturing. They also trace Owen's role as
                    an educational reformer; the New Lanark  school with its broad
                    curriculum, and discipline based upon kindness, attracted wide attention. Much emphasis is given to
                    Owen's attempt to secure parliamentary factory reform laws, his more radical moves toward
                    communitarianismo, and his final role as a founder of the cooperative movement.
            The essay on Owen as a businessman reveals him to be a shrewd financier, often with the problems of
                    operating on large sums of borrowed capital and faced with several reorganizations because of
                    disaffected partners. The concluding essay gives details of the building of the New Lanark Mills and
                    the model factory village along with interesting accounts of the mechanical workings of the plant.
                    One small part of the mill is in use today. The New Lanark Association is restoring some of the
                    homes of the workers to their original state, a project which it hopes to complete as a memorial to
                    Owen and the Industrial Revolution.
            These writings reveal some of Owen's inconsistencies. He attacked religion, and, at the same
                    time, the core of his work was the foremost Christian principle of charity toward all. He turned to
                    spiritualism in his last years. His belief in the profit motive as a legitimate one in business is
                    in sharp contrast to his denunciation of private property. "Owen was certainly good at
                    handing down the tablets of law but bad at debating their validity. Much substantiation of this can
                    be found in Dr. Fraser's essay (in this series) where it is made plain that Owen's
                    relationship with the working classes was essentially that of a paternalist" (p. 14).
            Butt believes that Owen's reputation does not gain by unscholarly idolatry, but concludes:
                    "We regard Robert Owen as a great inspirer of social movements rather than an efficient
                    organizer of social advances. As a truly great man, Owen does not require adulation" (p.
                    16).
            The book is attractively illustrated with pictures of New Lanark, Owen and other personalities,
                    charts of model communities, tables of the mill's industrial output, and a chronology of
                    Owen's life. One error was noted in the failure to include footnotes for numbers 44-69 in
                    Chapter 5. American readers will note that references to the 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, experiment are only incidental. The essays are well written and the book is a
                    valuable addition to Owenite literature in this the two hundredth anniversary of his birth.
            
               
                  
                            New Harmony
                        , Indiana Helen Elliott
         
         
            
               Building Sullivant's Pyramid: An Administrative History of the 
                            Ohio
                         State University, 1870-1907. By William A. Kinnison. ([
                        Columbus
                    ]:
                    
                        Ohio
                     State University Press, 1970. Pp. xii, 225. Illustration, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $8.00.)
            
               The First Hundred Years: A Family Album of the 
                            Ohio
                         State University, 1870-1970. Compiled and edited by the Department of
                    Photography and Cinema. ([
                        Columbus
                    ] : 
                        Ohio
                     State University Press, 1970. Unpaged. Illustrations, documents, notes. Paper-bound,
                    $7.00.)
            
               
                        Ohio
                    , like all of the states whose higher educational outlines were formed prior to 1862,
                    faced a central conflict of developing a state university based upon the broader vocational, or
                    applied, philosophy of the Morrill Act or of forming an institution in the image of the older
                    colleges such as 
                        Miami
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     universities. Joseph Sullivant worked to secure the state university at the site of the
                    state capital. His triangular philosophy was outlined in the seal he designed for the institution.
                    Agriculture was to be basic, supporting the liberal and mechanical arts. There was internal turmoil
                    over both the location of the institution and the definition of its objectives.
            Kinnison includes a good chapter on the role of Rutherford B. Hayes, who, like so many
                    politico-trustees of the period, had a well developed idea of what he wanted to see 
                        Ohio
                     State become as the central institution in the state's public educational
                    system. Two chapters of this brief study treat the central themes of professors and students. The
                    issues of academic freedom and professorial tenure were at times ensnared in both state and board of
                    trustees politics. One now wonders how the trustees could have interfered with the administration of
                    Edward Orton because he was obviously a man of genuine scholarly capability, even though he did take
                    radical views toward religion, business, and society. The matter of chapel services in the era of
                    rising science and Darwinism caused 
                        Ohio
                     State the same trouble as was common in other schools. The board of trustees placed
                    great score by chapel services, and this got in the way of their perception of the larger problems
                    of administering the institution.
            Founders of 
                        Ohio
                     State University dreamed of a state university in fact, but the early enrollments were
                    predominantly local in origin, and not always oriented to the basic purposes of the institution.
                    Perhaps one of the most interesting facts about American university history is the common thread of
                    student relationships. The students at emerging 
                        Ohio
                     State acted no differently from those at Indiana, 
                        Miami
                    , or Cornell. They were maturing adolescents who resented the stern hands of presidents
                    and faculties who acted the role of in loco parentis. The student publications,
                    underground, poetic, and otherwise, had their say. At 
                        Ohio
                     State the feelings of students toward  the
                    institution were conditioned somewhat by their reactions toward the presidents. In summary there was
                    a lot of what G. Stanley Hall called "babyism" in the earlier years.
            Kinnison has described the central battle of the emerging institution with the 
                        Ohio
                     farmers. The farmers in 
                        Ohio
                     like farmers everywhere following passage of the Morrill Act misread the full intent of
                    the legislation and created serious problems in the organization and conduct of the
                    school's program. Making peace with the farmers absorbed energy that desperately needed to
                    be applied elsewhere.
            Sullivant's pyramid of letters, science, arts, agriculture was slow and troubled in the
                    building. This slender volume contains a compact, yet surprisingly full account of the 
                        Ohio
                     State University's struggles, and its triumphs.
            
               The First Hundred Years is a good panorama of the changes which have occurred in a
                    major university in the span of the past century.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Thomas D. Clark
         
         
            
               A House for all Peoples: Ethnic Politics in 
                            Chicago
                        , 1890-1936. By John M. Allswang. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1971. Pp. x, 253. Notes, tables, charts, appendix, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $8.95.)
            
               
                        Chicago
                    , with its diverse population and its solid political structure, has been of interest to
                    careful and casual observers for decades. Horace R. Cayton and St. Clair Drake, writing generally of
                    the city's Negroes in Black Metropolis (1945; revised, 1970); Allan H.
                    Spear, looking at the minority group historically in Black 
                            Chicago
                        
                (1967); and Harold F. Gosnell, examining the race's political
                    activities in Negro Politicians (1935) have covered the plight of 
                        Chicago
                    's most conspicuous minority. Correspondingly, understanding of the
                    city's political machines and its various ethnic blocs has come from a bevy of articles,
                    monographs, and biographies.
            Nevertheless, despite an obviously exhaustive bibliography, 
                        Chicago
                     continues to be a favorite city for inquiry by Clio's devotees. John M.
                    Allswang has found enough questions left unanswered about the shifting political allegiances of the
                    city's ethnic groups to apply quantitative methods in search of trends. The result of
                    Allswang's imaginative use of statistical data has been most revealing. He has uncovered
                    many reasons for the development of a solid Democratic vote from the city's ethnics.
            Emerging as the most salient conclusion is the importance given 
                    the 1928 presidential election and its effect upon 
                        Chicago
                    's ethnic politics. Employing a variety of quantitative and qualitative
                    measures, Allswang concludes that the nomination of Alfred E. Smith for President by the Democrats
                    in 1928 was significantly pivotal to shift partisan loyalties among the city's different
                    peoples. In fact the author calls the 1928 election "certainly the most critical of the
                    period" (p. 207). A combination of Smith's "urbanness, Wetness, Roman
                    Catholicism, or apparent social familiarity" (p. 209) were forces appealing especially to a
                    majority of 
                        Chicago
                    's ethnic voters. Of course, for Scandinavian and German Protestants,
                    Smith's attributes were not necessarily assets.
            Locally, the fall of Mayor William Hale Thompson's star and the cise of Anton
                        J. Cerman's were parallel developments. The vilification of "Tony
                    Baloney" by Big Bill in 1931 proved disastrous because hyphenated Americans interpreted it
                    as evidence confirming their suspicions that Thompson was antiimmigrant. The consequences were fatal
                    for Thompson; he could not win without ethnic support.
            Unfortunately, however, this book has many shortcomings, and they are the result of
                    Allswang's enamorment with his method. The author's failure is the failure of
                    quantitative historians generally. His assemblage of statistics is impressive, but the satisfaction
                    of measuring numerically has blinded him to the reality that "traditional"
                    research still is of value for scholars seeking knowledge. Greater employment by Allswang of
                    newspapers, interviews, and manuscripts would have filled out the skeleton provided by his
                    quantitative data. At stake is the fact that Allswang's "central
                    question" has not fully been answered. One still does not know altogether "what
                    was the role of ethnic groups in 
                        Chicago
                    's politics, and to what extent was the changing political balance of power
                    attributable to their political behavior?" (p. 3).
            Unfolding simultaneously are other problems–minor and major. Allswang does not run down
                    completely what his title promises. Instead of carrying his investigation of 
                        Chicago
                     elections through 1936, the author stops with the Cermak victory of 1931. Therefore,
                    the reader is left wondering about the long term effect of the Great Depression upon minority voting
                    patterns, and no insight is given for the switch of 
                        Chicago
                     blacks to the Democratic party. For example, no mention is made of Arthur W.
                    Mitchell's defeat of Oscar DePriest in 1934. The election of a Negro Democrat to Congress
                    is too important for it to be ignored by an author examining ethnic and racial voting in 
                        Chicago
                     for the period in which the change occurred. Moreover, had Allswang investigated
                    electoral results in Negro wards after 1931, he would have found blacks remaining more loyal to the
                    party of Abraham Lincoln than he speculated. William L. Dawson, 
                    for instance, had not, as Allswang alleges, become a Democrat by 1936.
            Also apparent to anyone familiar with 
                        Chicago
                    's ethnic neighborhoods is another error. Assuming as Allswang has that 
                        Chicago
                     was broken down neatly by precincts along national lines is oversimplification. On a
                    given block in almost any part of the city, except black sections, a Schmidt would live by an Olson
                    and a Goldberg by an O'Rourke. Given the nature and extent of mixture, one can legitimately
                    question the validity of Allswang's whole framework of explaining the ethnic vote by
                    percentages.
            
               Bryant College, 
                            Providence
                        , R. I. Dennis S. Nordin
         
         
            
               Joshua R. Giddings and the Tactics of Radical Politics. By James Brewer Stewart. (
                        Cleveland
                    : The Press of Case Western Reserve University, 1970. Pp. xiv, 318. Notes, essay on
                    sources, bibliography, index. $8.50.)
            This well written biography is an important addition to the literature on nineteenth century politics
                    and reform. The tone is sympathetic and realistic. In appraising Joshua R. Giddings, Professor
                    Stewart reaffirms the significance of events that transpired in 1837. A sudden loss of affluence and
                    an unexpected break with his dominating mentor, Elisha Whittlesey, nearly overwhelmed the Ohioan.
                    Weeks of self-examination, however, prepared him to serve new causes–temperance and
                    antislavery. His opportunity came when Whittlesey fatefully resigned from Congress.
            Stewart correctly emphasizes Giddings' "assumption that morality and politics were
                    inseparable …" (p. 45); he concludes, "religious thinking provided the
                    basis of Giddings' decisions …" (p. 252). A traditional
                    Congregationalist influenced by Charles G. Finney's theology, he worked with the Bible
                    Society and the Colonization Society during the precongressional years. Older views to the contrary,
                    he did not make an antislavery statement until 1838. Nor was he an abolitionist, for repeal of the
                    petition gag rule and withdrawal of all federal support for slavery encompassed his program. In the
                    early years of his career Giddings controlled his antislavery agitation because of his concern for
                    Whig economic policies. His failure to make any significant contribution in the legislative struggle
                    over those issues might well have been stressed as it placed his anti-slavery endeavors in proper
                    focus. With respect to organized activity on the left, the author declares that the
                    "problems posed by the Liberty party … [helped make] Giddings act as a cyclone
                    of agitation …" (p. 87). In his notable speech on the annexation of 
                        Texas
                     he denounced the immediate project, forecast both war with 
                        Mexico
                     and  slave insurrections, and discussed the slave
                    trade, miscegenation, exploitation, and the immorality of the institution. Giddings also became a
                    tough, opportunistic campaigner. An important instance, omitted from this book, occurred in 1844
                    when he used a letter from Cassius Clay while implying it was written by Henry Clay. Unable to
                    restructure the Whigs he belatedly labored for the 1848 coalition. Once committed to the Free Soil
                    party he was instrumental in preserving its independent position. He operated on the left flank of
                    the Republican movement until ill health forced retirement in 1859.
            This volume captures the main thrust of the man, an evangelical reformer who sought to turn
                    politicians and the populace from support of the peculiar institution. Giddings never advocated
                    complete equality for the Negro, but Stewart documents a struggle for black rights that was advanced
                    for the period. In the age of Franklin Pierce and James Buchanan his appeals for the regeneration of
                    the whole people clarify his relationship with Republican leaders. It is unfortunate that the book
                    closes with a rush. The discussion of John Brown's raid would be more balanced if mention
                    were made of the editorial in the Ashtabula Sentinel declaring that Brown would
                    die with "all the prestige of a martyr …" The treatment of the wartime
                    assignment in Montreal and the war years is thin. Giddings used confrontation to advantage, and a
                    fuller assessment of his adjustment to the realities of the grand confrontation is needed.
            Nevertheless, Stewart adds another dimension to an understanding of the evangelical crusade against
                    slavery.
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         Wesleyan University, 
                            Delaware
                        
                Richard W. Smith
         
         
            
               Stephen Douglas: The Last Years, 1857-1861. By Damon Wells. (Austin: University
                    of 
                        Texas
                     Press, 1971. Pp. xvi, 342. Illustrations, notes, critical essay on sources,
                    bibliography, index. $10.00.)
            This book is basically a political biography. It treats Stephen Douglas' private life and
                    his position on economic issues only incidentally. Professor Wells is not an apologist for Douglas.
                    No attempt is made to disregard his shortcomings although the author does endeavor to explain the
                    reasons for these faults.
            Douglas is portrayed in the years 1857-1861 as a man who was out of step with the times. He seemed to
                    be unaware of his errors until it was too late to reverse his actions. Notwithstanding his bad
                    timing, Douglas does not emerge as the well intentioned, but occasionally blundering 
                        Illinois
                     senator, which has often been the case in other volumes on this period of American
                    history. The image of  Douglas created by Wells allows the
                    reader to view a man who finally realized that his long held political views were no longer
                    applicable to a rapidly changing American political climate. Douglas turned from the former
                    materialistic bias inherent in his view of the nation and its welfare and sacrificed any chance of
                    capturing the presidency in an effort to avert secession.
            
               
                        Wells
                     contends that Douglas was a nationalist in an age of sectionalism. The reader becomes
                    aware that in another era of American history, Douglas would have been known as a great compromiser,
                    perhaps with a reputation equal to that of Henry Clay. However, it becomes evident that this was not
                    possible in the period of political turmoil which preceded the Civil War.
            Abraham Lincoln, the great political antagonist of Douglas, is given fair treatment in this book. 
                        Wells
                     makes no attempt to berate Lincoln's image in order to improve
                    Douglas' appearance; Douglas does not emerge as the hero in his encounters with Lincoln.
            It is somewhat difficult to imagine that 
                        Wells
                     would have the reader believe in his discussion of the 
                        Kansas
                     Civil War of the 1850s that "Kansans today appear to be more serious than most
                    Americans. They laugh less easily. The land and its people seem never to have quite recovered from
                    the trauma that marked their early history" (p. 16). It is also questionable whether
                    Douglas "knew better than any other Northern leader, the magnitude of the crisis that was
                    now upon the country and the lateness of the hour" (p. 259).
            
               
                        Wells
                     has written a book which will shed new light on the twilight years of Douglas'
                    life. This scholarly volume allows the reader to view Douglas as he grappled with the issues which
                    were tearing the 
                        United States
                     apart. It is an important contribution to an understanding of some of the most crucial
                    years in American history and will be welcomed by scholars and other serious readers alike.
            
               
                  
                            Oklahoma
                         State University, Stillwater Robert E. Smith
         
         
            
               Gifford Pinchot: Private and Public Forester. By Harold T. Pinkett. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1970. Pp. 167. Notes, illustrations, bibliography, index. $6.95.)
            This book demonstrates the value of perspective. Given two previous biographies, an autobiography,
                    and numerous other publications touching his life, one could doubt the importance of another Pinchot
                    volume. Yet archivist Harold Pinkett has provided an original segment of American forest and
                    conservation history. As deputy director of the Records Appraisal Division of the National Archives,
                    he is familiar with Pinchot papers which have not been hitherto 
                    utilized. Pinkett's work focuses sharply on Pinchot's career in forestry. Eighteen
                    crisp chapters contain 150 carefully documented pages outlining Pinchot's contribution.
            
               Private and Public Forester provides a balanced survey of Pinchot's work.
                    It discusses early years in private forestry, the influence of his mentor Sir Dietrich Brandis who
                    believed that "forest management in the 
                        United States
                     must begin through private enterprise" (p. 24), Pinchot's service on
                    the National Forest Commission during the early years when he was a consulting forester. Ten
                    chapters treat his administration of the federal forests and development of forest policy. Two
                    chapters illuminate his direction of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    's state forests.
            Pinkett supplies a narrative of clarity which has relevance for the present. "Conservative
                    Forest Use" is a masterful chapter on the chief forester's enlightened policy.
                    Land in the forest reserves was "to be devoted to the most productive use for the permanent
                    good of the whole people, and not for the temporary benefit of individuals or companies"
                    (p. 58). Under his leadership lease and fee systems were initiated for special forest privileges.
                    Grazing on public lands, the removal of dead and mature timber, and waterpower site development were
                    regulated so that a variety of associated enterprises consonant with forestry could be permanent.
                    The program was so successful that today both private and public forest reserves are lands of many
                    uses. In the present, as a highly charged ecological emotionalism has swept the country with
                    opposition to the multiple use concept, it should be remembered that when the idea was first
                    advanced by Pinchot, not the liberal or radical elements of American society challenged it but the
                    conservative business interests.
            Perhaps the most engaging aspect of this book is its acknowledgment of the occasional failures of
                    program and personality which were also part of Pinchot's career. Pinchot held rigidly to
                    his own ideas and opinions, Pinkett describes the circumstances in which alienation developed
                    between Pinchot and Bernhard Fernow (p. 17), Carl A. Schenck (p. 30), and Robert S. Conklin (pp.
                    133-36). Although Pinkett allows the reader to draw his own conclusions, it is clear that Pinchot
                    seldom tolerated differences of professional opinion. Following his own dismissal from the federal
                    service for insubordination and tactless conduct, Pinchot pressed for removal of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    's commissioner of forestry. At the very least the reader is left to ponder
                    Pinchot's motives when he followed Conklin as the new sheriff of Penn's Woods.
            Pinchot criticized others but could not tolerate criticism which was directed at himself. When the
                    botanist J. G. Lemmon accused him of using erroneous names for trees in A Primer of
                        Forestry, his  chiding response was nonscientific and
                    unprofessional: "The object of this Division is not to bring the righteous, but sinners to
                    repent-ence. Consequently, it matters little whether, botanically, the names we use are correct or
                    not, while it is of the greatest importance that the practical men in whose hands the future welfare
                    or destruction of the forest areas of this country must necessarily lie, should find themselves as
                    much at home as possible in our publications" (p. 53). Though generally the spirit of the
                    men in the Forest Service was remarkable, Pinchot found it difficult "to forget a
                    man's mistakes or failures, and tended to deny to one who had stumbled an opportunity to
                    make good" (p. 72). In addition to his shortcomings in personal relations, the chief often
                    invited public opposition because he attempted too many changes at once (p. 74).
            Pinkett provides an excellent analysis of the Ballinger-Pinchot controversy. The facts are carefully
                    delineated. At the center was Pinchot's belief in a broad constitutional interpretation of
                    executive and national authority. While Theodore Roosevelt was President, such a philosophy was
                    supported. With the advent of William Howard Taft, a lawyer who held more conservative views,
                    Pinchot's actions– often taken without specific statutory
                    authority–were inappropriate. Pinkett contends that the chief forester became less and
                    less a man of science and more and more a politician. Nevertheless, Pinchot's removal
                    created a backlash which ultimately caused the resignation of Richard A. Ballinger as interior
                    secretary. The reactions to the more recent firing of Douglas MacArthur and the dismissal of Walter
                    Hickel combined would not equal the magnitude of public outburst over the Ballinger-Pinchot affair.
            If there is a shortcoming in this superlative evaluation of a man and his cause, it is not in the
                    research, writing, or interpretation. Yet the work would have been strengthened by a chapter
                    carefully describing scientific forest management. The author refers to elements and
                    characteristics, but an extensive treatment would have been desirable. Otherwise, this is a
                    miniature masterpiece of historical biography. More than anyone to date, Pinkett has argued
                    convincingly that despite many concerned predecessors, Gifford Pinchot deserves the title of founder
                    of 
                        United States
                     forestry and father of the American conservation movement.
            
               Alaska Methodist University, Anchorage Robert A. Frederick
         
         
            
               The Frontier Challenge: Responses to the Trans-
                            Mississippi
                         West. Edited by John G. Clark. (
                        Lawrence
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1971. Pp. vii, 307. Notes. $10.00.)
            
            The ten papers in this volume were presented at a 1969 Conference on the History of the Trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West. They are concerned with what happened to the people who were involved in the
                    frontier experience. Geography and environment are secondary, the authors find, to a faith in
                    material progress and a longstanding American ethnocentricity.
            The "urban dimension" of the American West is just beginning to receive analytical
                    scrutiny by scholars. In the lead and leading essay Earl Pomeroy argues that western cities served
                    as advanced bases for the exploitation and settlement of their hinterlands. Since the 1860s western
                    states have been more urban than the nation as a whole. Vernon Carstensen suggests that the salmon
                    fisheries and canning industry were very important to the urban development of the Pacific Coast
                    from 
                        Oregon
                     to Alaska. The technologically progressive salmon industry inspired the establishment
                    of auxiliary industries. George Anderson establishes the considerable role of 
                        Kansas
                     City in the development of the Great Plains. Not only did banks, railroads, and mails
                    make it the dominant financial center of the region, but they gave the city a prominent place in the
                    formulation and functioning of the Federal Reserve System.
            Robert Johannsen puts Stephen A. Douglas in the forefront of the articulate political activists who
                    translated the American mission into reality. Virtually all of Douglas' legislative
                    accomplishments involved territorial expansion, encouragement of settlement, extension of organized
                    government, and the improvement of transportation and communication.
            Central in the westward movement was the problem of the Indian. Paul Gates shows through the
                    antecedents of the Dawes Act of 1887 that the principal aim was to eliminate the Indian hurdle to
                    white advance. Squaw men, whites married to Indians, were, as William Hagan shows, at the heart of
                    reservation politics and factionalism. Active and energetic, they used their peculiar status to
                    exploit both the Indians and their white benefactors. In the great upsurge of social reform in the
                    1840s efforts were made to better the status of the Indians that had been relocated westward as a
                    consequence of the removal policy. Francis Paul Prucha credits the Indian commissioners, agents, and
                    missionaries with laying a foundation upon which future reformers could build, despite the
                    undermining factors suggested by Hagan and Gates.
            The 
                        Kansas
                     frontier is the basis for two studies. Oscar Winther examines efforts to attract
                    English gentry, who looked upon the area as suitable for capital investment and as a
                    sportsman's paradise, and indigent farm laborers and urban unemployed, who believed 
                        Kansas
                     afforded them glowing opportunities. Alan Bogue investigates  the search for developmental capital for 
                        Kansas
                     through promotional activity and regulatory legislation.
            The Spanish-Americans in the Southwest, according to Rodman Paul, were primarily people far down on
                    the social and economic ladders of their own societies. In the first half century under the American
                    flag, however, they proved resourceful and resilient in meeting the challenge of the acquisitive and
                    aggressive intruding groups of Anglo-Americans.
            
               The Frontier Challenge shifts emphasis away from the traditional grist that has fed
                    the romantic West of the pulp and movie westerns for generations. The particular strength of the
                    volume is analysis.
            
               
                  
                            Miami
                         University, 
                            Oxford
                        , O. Dwight L. Smith
         
         
            
               Great Britain and the Confederate Navy, 1861-1865. By Frank J. Merli. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1970. Pp. xvi, 342. Illustrations, bibliographical essay,
                    notes, index. $7.50.)
            The author of this work, an assistant professor at the City University of 
                        New York
                    , set for himself the tasks of examining the responses of the British government to the
                    Confederate attempts to build a navy in British shipyards and of relating his findings to the
                    considerable body of scholarly studies in the field.
            Most of the book is devoted to an in-depth study of the problems encountered by the Confederates in
                    building the cruisers which took to sea, and the ironclads, including Number 61 in 
                        Scotland
                    , which were never delivered to them. It is a story of legal wrangles, Confederate
                    artifices to circumvent the Neutrality Act, the counter pressures of the federal government, and the
                    consequent difficulties and embarrassments of the Palmerston government in coping with the
                    situation.
            The ingenuity of James D. Bulloch, who worked to build the navy against great odds, calls forth the
                    admiration of the author; but he doubts that even if Bulloch had been one hundred per cent
                    successful, it would have changed the outcome of the war. Not even the Laird Rams could have been
                    used with effect for very long. But many factors and conditions doomed Bulloch's major
                    efforts to failure including the ineptitude displayed by the Confederate government in administering
                    the limited funds it had available.
            In the British response to the Confederate shipbuilding program the writer finds a typical example of
                    British "muddling through." It would appear that the British government really had
                    no policy toward this form of private enterprise and simply took action on each  case as it arose according to the circumstances of the moment. One can
                    pity the poor law officers who so often had to clothe expediency with the garb of solemn legality!
            Carrying out his second task, the author includes a bibliographical essay of twenty-five pages, which
                    provides those interested in this field with an excellent and up to date reference. He makes wide
                    use of secondary sources, but he also draws upon a number of important British manuscript
                    collections to give added depth to his work.
            Although his approach would seem to be that of a specialist in American, rather than British,
                    history, the writer set his objectives; and, by and large, he worked toward them faithfully,
                    skillfully, and interestingly. The reviewer finds himself in general agreement with most of
                    Merli's conclusions not excluding his suggestion that Bulloch deserves a better memorial
                    than his uncared-for grave in Toxeth cemetery near Liverpool.
            
               University of 
                     Georgia, Athens
                  
                Wilbur Devereux Jones
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Lake County, Indiana, in Maps. By Daniel F. Dull. Occasional Publication No. 6. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Department of Geography, Indiana University, 1971. Pp. 52. Maps, table, major sources.
                    Paper-bound, $1.50.) The maps in this atlas and their accompanying commentary emphasize
                    Lake County's historical development, population makeup, voting patterns, manufacturing
                    interests, and physical features. In the main they pertain to the last several decades, but several
                    belong to the nineteenth century. Some of them are much more readable than others, but they are
                    generally clear and usable. The author invites corrections regarding possible errors in this atlas
                    and suggestions concerning maps that readers believe would make desirable additions to a second
                    edition. The switch of Lake County voters from Republican to Democrat during this century is vividly
                    illustrated in maps concerning voting patterns. An interesting table shows the distribution within
                    the county and the relative importance of natives of other countries as of 1880. The Germans led
                    with an aggregate of 2,781 (including Prussians). Next came the Irish with 241, English with 189,
                    Canadians with 143, and Dutch with 114. No other group had as many as 50; there were only 49
                    Bohemians, 14 Italians, 11 Poles, 10 Austrians, and 1 each from 
                  Belgium, Hungary, Mexico
               , and the West Indies. Though lacking in this edition surely one or
                    two additional tables or maps are needed to show the impact of immigration from southern and eastern
                    Europe which began during the 1880s and 1890s. Furthermore, such an atlas should have tables or maps
                    which tell the story of the development of the Negro population.
            
               The Story of Old St. John's: A Parish Rooted in Pioneer 
                            Indianapolis
                        . By Sister Rose Angela Horan, S. P. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Litho Press, Inc., 1971. Pp. x, 355. Endpapers, illustrations, notes and references,
                    bibliography, appendix. $10.00.) Sister Horan's volume, based upon much
                    research, is more than merely The Story of Old St. John's. To a
                    significant degree it is also the story of Roman Catholicism in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and to some extent within Indiana generally. She offers convincing evidence that old
                    St. John's has had an important niche in its city and state since about 1840. Her account,
                    however, gives emphasis to the period since 1871 at which time the original structure of the present
                    building was dedicated. Sister Horan is to be commended for reliance on varied sources and the
                    substantial use of quotations which reflect the flavor and times represented. But, as too often
                    happens in such histories, the trees, and at times even their small branches, obscure the forest,
                    making it difficult to find and understand the important items, ideas, and achievements which
                    characterize St. John's. Moreover, it is disturbing to 
                    find such errors as the reference to the "Internal Improvement Bill of 1831" (p.
                    14) and the opening of the First State Bank of Indiana in 1834 (p. 15). Nonetheless, this book is
                    worthy of study by individuals interested in the history of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Indiana, while members of St. John's Parish may peruse it frequently.
            
               Adena: The Seeking of an Identity. Edited by B. K. Swartz, Jr. (
                        Muncie
                    : Ball State University, 1970. Pp. vi, 182. Note, references, tables, maps, figures.
                    Paperbound, $2.00.) This publication offers the proceedings of a symposium held at Ball
                    State University, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, March 5-7, 1970, concerning the Adena culture among the Indians in the
                    eastern 
                        United States
                    . The development of Adena study during the last half century is reviewed and evaluated,
                    though the evaluations of the approximately two dozen participants naturally are not always in
                    agreement. The extension of the Adena culture into southwestern Indiana is considered in a paper by
                    James H. Kellar and B. K. Swartz, Jr. concerning "Adena: The Western Periphery."
            
               The Great 
                            Chicago
                         Fire: October 8-10, 1871. … Introduction and Notes by Paul M.
                    Angle. (
                        Chicago
                    : The 
                        Chicago
                     Historical Society, 1971. Pp. 122. Endpapers, notes, illustrations, index.
                    $7.50.) The fire which commenced in O'Leary's cowbarn Sunday evening,
                    October 8, 1871, according to Angle, "destroyed practically every building in an area of
                    three and a third square miles in the heart of 
                        Chicago
                    . Property valued at $200,000,000 was turned into rubble, 90,000 people were
                    left homeless, 300 lost their lives. The common designation, the ‘Great 
                        Chicago
                     Fire,’ is understatement: it was the most destructive fire in American
                    history" (p. 1). Apart from brief and helpful introductory comment by Angle, the awesome
                    destruction wrought by the holocaust is conveyed in letters by seven residents who observed it and
                    suffered its havoc and in numerous pictures of 
                        Chicago
                     before and after the conflagration. The task of rebuilding, a process that began even
                    before the fire had been entirely extinguished (p. 91), is also given some attention in the
                    narrative and illustrations.
            
               Privilege and Creative Destruction: The Charles River Bridge
                    Case. By Stanley I. Kutler. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : J. B. Lippincott Company, 1971. Pp. 191. Map, illustration, notes, bibliographical
                    essay, index. Clothbound, $5.95; paperbound, $2.95.) This is a well
                    researched, interestingly written book on the significant case of 
                  Charles
                            River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, decided by the Jacksonian Supreme Court in
                    1837. Kutler explores the political and economic background of this controversy centering on the 
                        Charlestown
                    -
                        Boston
                     bridge in  the early nineteenth century. Against
                    the claim of the bridge's proprietors to exclusive "privilege" the state
                    adopted a policy of "creative destruction," specifically to build a new, toll free
                    bridge alongside the old one. The Court of Chief Justice Roger B. Taney approved that policy by a
                    strict construction of the old bridge's charter and thus laid down an important
                    constitutional rule in behalf of innovation and enterprise. Kutler ably analyzes the economic and
                    legal impact of the decision with largely a favorable verdict despite this blow to exact justice and
                    to the ancient law. Maurice G. Baxter, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               American Folklore & the Historian. By Richard M. Dorson. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1971. Pp. xii, 239. Notes, additional references, index. $7.95.) This
                    volume brings together about a dozen articles, mainly essays, which Dorson has published during
                    roughly the last quarter century. They set forth his ideas about folklore, its changing status, and
                    how it should be studied. Unless this reviewer has misread and misunderstood Dorson, he here
                    contends that the study of local history and folklore are naturally and more closely linked together
                    than the study of history and folklore generally (see pages 138, 146 for instance). This thesis can
                    be debated pro and con, but Dorson intermingles his discussion of oral history and folklore in a
                    somewhat deceptive manner. He is thus less explicit than desirable concerning how folklore can make
                    significant contributions to the study of local history.
            
               American Historical Spoons: The American Story in Spoons. By Albert Stutzenberger.
                    Second edition. (Rutland, Vt.: Charles E. Tuttle Company, 1971. Pp. xviii, 535. Illustrations,
                    bibliography, index. $10.00.) According to the author "this is the first book
                    devoted exclusively to a lowly domestic utensil, the spoon"; the emphasis is "on
                    the spoon at the apogee of its glory, that is, in that era when American makers of silver were
                    employing all their ingenuity to create lovely pieces of art, as souvenirs" (p. ix). After
                    a lively introduction about the spoon in literature, history, and lore Stutzenberger specifically
                    deals with 150 souvenir spoons providing many facts and legends which surround them. The subjects
                    vary from the 
                        Kentucky
                     thoroughbred and other animals to Lewis Cass and other men and women to trees, flowers,
                    and historical sites. The book will be of interest to collectors of spoons, and those members of a
                    younger generation who have received souvenir spoons from relatives should find this work a
                    fascinating recreation of the spirit which led to the manufacture and collecting of those spoons.
                        Pamela J. Bennett, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
