
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 48, Issue 3, pages 217-330. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:48+issue:3+year:1952&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Country Newspaper as a Source of Social History
            
                    Thomas D. Clark*
               
                
            Students of American social life have come to regard the everyday affairs of the common man as vital
                    in the national history. Many excellent studies have been made of the national life in general. To
                    date, however, it may be safely assumed that Americans are still in a pioneering stage in this
                    field. In the more general phases of history vast quantities of manuscripts, documents, diaries, and
                    published sources have been gathered. The tendency has been to classify historical interests by the
                    scope and fields in which they fall. From the prestige point of view, constitutional history has
                    been far more important than that of rural America, or discussion of American foreign policy history
                    has taken precedence over that of the so-called American way of life. The biography of an average
                    president of the 
                        United States
                     has appeared much more important to both the author's personal reputation
                    and his readers than has that of one of the great American common men. Yet much of the fabric of our
                    national history has been woven from the yarn of everyday, folksy human affairs of the thousands of
                    rural communities.
            At present much lip service is paid the American way of life. Despite an almost worshipful attitude
                    toward this type of civilization, many phases of it remain largely unexplored by historians.
                    Collected records dealing with many of the more earthy and human aspects of American life are
                    largely uncollected, and prestige returns from the tedious research necessary to produce an
                    intelligible story are indeed small. Nevertheless, it is almost impossible to understand the
                    American people without digging into some of the basic sources of the 
                  
                     * Thomas D. Clark is chairman of the department of history, University
                            of 
                                Kentucky
                            , 
                                Lexington
                            ; and editor of the Journal of Southern History. This paper,
                            in a slightly different form, was read before Delta Epsilon chapter of Phi Alpha Theta at
                            Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , on May 7, 1952.
               
                     commonplace history. In the national life it is of fundamental
                    importance that so many institutions have developed upon a common pattern. Except for slight local
                    variations, a member of a rural church in the sedate East would be perfectly at home in a similar
                    church in the Southwest. The political patterns of rural politics differ merely in details of local
                    techniques and approaches rather than in fundamental principles. Rural community life in the South
                    differs from that in New 
                        England
                     or the Northwest only in degree. Isolation has influenced people in the same general
                    way all across the continent. Over the centuries Americans have grown into a national people under
                    varied geographic conditions despite the staggered time phases in their maturity, but in remarkably
                    few incidents have they varied the rural pattern enough to make it wholly different from that of the
                    rest of the country. Certain institutions, such as the country church, the country school, store,
                    county town, political campaigns, and country newspaper press have from the beginning characterized
                    rural America. Any one of these presents a fair field for worthwhile research in American social
                    history. None of these, however, surpasses the country newspaper as a colorful and literate source
                    reflecting much of our way of life. The country press is almost as old as the art of printing in
                    North America. Before 1865 the weekly newspaper press in the 
                        United States
                     was widely dispersed, and it was a poor county seat indeed which did not have its local
                    paper. Not only was the newspaper a necessary vehicle by which news was spread about, but it was
                    likewise an adjunct to partisan local politics. Before a political party could make headway it
                    needed a newspaper to slant its news, make its announcements and arguments, and to sustain its
                    peculiar contentions. In short, the editorial page was both a unifying and dignifying instrument in
                    the hands of an editor who could impress upon his readers the importance of the printed word.
                    Volumes like Clarence S. Brigham's History and Bibliography of American
                        Newspapers, 1690–1820, Alden Brothers' American
                        Newspaper Catalogue, and N. W. Ayer's American Newspaper Annual and
                        Directory, reflect the vast expenditure of energy on the part of the little newspaper
                    press. If the weekly papers do not constitute the main backbone of newspaper publishing in the
                    larger sense in this country, they at least monopolize the space in the guides. In 1929 there were
                    2,964 counties in the forty-eight states, and there were 11,869 country newspapers, or approximately
                    four papers to the county.1
            
            
               
                  1 N. W. Ayer and Son. American Newspaper Annual and Directory
                            …1929 (
                            Philadelphia
                        , n.d.).
            
            
            It has been an established custom that wherever a county was formed and local political and social
                    affairs came to a focus, a newspaper editor and printer quickly appeared on the scene. It is one of
                    the remarkable facts in American technical history that ingenious printers moved type and presses
                    along with the roll of the frontier westward. They have carried on the rather complicated and
                    delicate business of printing without too much difficulty. Official life of the organized political
                    community was only one of the reasons for the appearance of weekly newspapers. Local society
                    demanded a publicity outlet for its expanding pride. The great American local brag has ever been
                    publicized in the country weekly. The "best" and the "biggest,"
                    and sometimes the "worst" in cases of local calamity have ever been magic words
                    with the country editor. Possibly one of the best established traits as an American people is the
                    love of publicity. Seeing their names in print, no matter how insignificant the source, has kept
                    large numbers of Americans believing they were important. The printed word has indeed been magic,
                    and in the pragmatic terms of dollars and cents the business of vanity printing has been relatively
                    a profitable one. Business enterprises, like individuals, have thrived on publicity. Advertising has
                    long been one of the most important aspects of business operation. It has never been the intention
                    of ingenious merchants and manufacturers to keep their products a secret from a widely dispersed
                        public.2
            
            Because American society historically has been significantly rural, the country newspaper has been
                    highly reflective of the social growth. After 1865 the weekly press became nearly as standardized as
                    an institution under the management of individualists, such as were the country editors, would
                        permit.3 A subscriber to the weekly Tillamook, 
                        Oregon
                    , Herald would find little difference in either news features of
                    physical make up from that of the Cayuga, Indiana, Herald except for personal
                    names, purely local editorials, and political points of 
                  
                     2 On a national scale shoes, clothing, patent medicines, farm
                            implements, novelties, and books have ever found advertising outlets in the country papers.
                            Locally, merchants have made known both their goods and economic philosophies through the
                            columns of the hometown papers. It was not unusual for a merchant to write a column of
                            homely humor, gossip, or philosophy while he was subtly apprising his customers of the goods
                            in his store.
                  
                     3 From 
                                Chicago
                            , and eventually from other larger cities in strategically located centers,
                            there came ready-print pages, on which two pages were already printed with reading matter
                            and advertising which had been assembled by the so-called "newspaper
                            unions," for the purpose of facilitating the publication of local papers where both
                            printing facilities and news were limited. Too, boiler plate in column width, and story
                            length was made available on a cheap rate which encouraged a badgered editor to run the copy
                            as his own.
               
                     view. Even the latter would be different in political labels
                    only and not in basic philosophy. Within twelve years after the Civil War most of the country papers
                    were using ready print and boiler plate with the result that some stories appeared in country papers
                    everywhere. Only in explosive sectional politics did the patented insides editors use extreme care
                    not to antagonize their subscribers.
            For fifty years or more the ready-print and boiler-plate editors were careful not to antagonize
                    unsophisticated country readers by use of profanity in any form, talking about the female figure,
                    taking sides in political issues, or publishing laudatory articles on the wrong side of the line
                    about men and issues in the Civil War.4 They played safe by writing long columns
                    of how stamps, collar buttons, rubber overshoes, and pencils were made.5 Country
                    people were told in some detail of the daily routine of the nurture of the Infanta of 
                        Spain
                     in the 1880's. They were brought up to date on the silver cradle, in which
                    she was rocked to sleep, and on the protocol and responsibilities of the ladies and flunkies in
                        waiting.6 Occasionally readers were given a juicy account of the strange
                    doings in old 
                        England
                    . If the publishers could dig up a horrible murder or a fabulous ghost story with a
                    mouldy British flavor, they were quick to use it. Correct manners for all sorts of social occasions,
                    most of them unknown to countrymen, were discussed as though every American farmer and his wife
                    expected at sometime to stand as honored guests in a receiving line at the White House. Actually
                    rural subscribers had either little occasion or real intention of following the foppish codes of
                    Victorian social behavior. Nevertheless, it was a mighty pleasant way for them to while away time by
                    reading how they might act in society.
            Ready-print editors took up where William H. McGuffey left off, and preached good morals in every
                    issue. Perhaps next to the political tone to the average country paper, morality was the next
                    important issue. Politeness, sobriety, except at an egg nog party at Christmas, honesty, and
                    industry were 
                  
                     4 Editors of the ready-print materials were extremely careful not to
                            irritate their customers with the wrong political or sectional slant. Henry
                            Watterson's material was always good for the South, whereas the 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, 
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Post-Dispatch, 
                                Detroit
                            
                            Free Press, and the 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Enquirer were good sources for northern copy.
                  
                     5 Many of the citations here can be duplicated in papers all over the
                            country. Specific citations are given largely from southern papers. Mc-Minnville, 
                                Tennessee
                            , New Era, July 6, 1882; Toccoa, 
                                Georgia
                            , News, April 1, 1882.
                  
                     6 A good account of the sappy qualities of much of the ready-print
                            material is to be found in the 
                                Winston County
                            , 
                                Mississippi
                            , Journal, March 10, 1893, and the 
                                Marietta
                            , 
                                Georgia
                            , Journal, October 27, 1881.
               
                     belabored themes. In good Horatio Alger style the inside pages,
                    before 1915, told how one might expect to succeed in the age of voracious robber barons. In the
                    highly idealistic vein of the country newspaper, success, however, was not by the true robber baron
                    formula. Sometimes stories told how a young man devoid of everything but manly beauty and a
                    wonderfully developed nineteenth century code of morals won both riches and romance by a single
                    gallant act. So all an 
                        Iowa
                     farm boy had to do was look to his manners and character and he would find a rich
                    heiress to reward him, or some sentimental old capitalist who had made his, fortune in the rough
                    two-fisted dog-eat-dog manner would spot the noble youth and hoist him to economic security in a
                    single boost.
            Where the ready-print editors guided themselves by the genteel code of the late Victorian era, the
                    individual local editor followed a more localized formula. They printed what they could get by with,
                    and since they were so intimately attuned to their readers' moral attitudes they went
                    pretty far at times. Perhaps it would be nearer the truth to say that some of them gauged the tenor
                    of their writings to their capacity to fight. Women and love affairs were favorite topics. By the
                    old code a despoiled woman was indeed a fallen woman, and many editors advocated the use of buckshot
                    to avenge the spoliation of female virtue. Nevertheless, a little scandal was a joy and a delight.
                    Long columns were published about social tragedies, and editors, tongue in cheek, defended family
                    honor while publicizing all the intimate details of social tragedy.7 Unlike the
                    scared rabbit press of the present day, the old boys were not afraid to cast their eyes about the
                    community and point accusing fingers at likely adventurers, who if not specifically guilty, were not
                    above being so. They called a spade a spade, and when local prostitutes ran afoul of the law they
                    did not hesitate to label them as such, and then raked up their sordid past to justify their
                    attitudes.
            Piously the experienced editors gave greenhorns advice on the techniques of courting.8 Almost to a man the editors considered themselves devils with the ladies, yet they never
                    ceased to puzzle over the fact that some girls appeared so shy in the parlor, but got such a thrill
                    out of riding on a gentle moonlight evening in a "hug-me-tight" buggy. Some of
                    them were opposed to the prevailing habit of clutching girls by the arms as though they were sacked
                    hams. Never, said many of them, 
                  
                     7
                            
                                Schley County
                            , 
                                Georgia
                            , News, January 28, 1897; Toccoa, 
                                Georgia
                            
                            News, June 23, 1883.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Greensboro
                            , 
                                Georgia
                            , Herald, July 6, 1867.
               
                     grab a girl by the arm between the elbow and the shoulder.
                    This, they labeled, as the uncouth act of a dude. Gentlemenly plowboys bent their elbows so their
                    hands pointed straight outward, and the lady slipped her arm through the crook and allowed her hand
                    to dangle freely over her escort's forearm. The lady herself was warned against clutching
                    the man's arm.9 In the next paragraph an editor was just as likely to
                    reminisce nostalgically on the joys and delights of courting in an old-fashioned country parlor when
                    the fire burned low, the old folks were in bed, and the lamp was out of oil. The reader could take
                    his choice as to which advice he wished to heed, but whichever he chose the knowing editor warned
                    the shy lad that courting was like going swimming for the first time in the spring. It was a
                    delightful experience once you made up your mind to jump in and get wet from head to heels.
            The accounts of weddings were almost as numerous as were those of robberies, murders, and public
                    hangings. Upon most of these occasions editors felt called upon to produce their most flowery prose.
                    Their florid stories lie buried and un-exploited in the early files. Students of the late nineteenth
                    and early twentieth centuries' would do well to read these papers. Like the ornate dress,
                    furniture, parlors, and social manners of this period, wedding reports were excessively saccharine.
                    Holding strongly to the theory that weddings were made on earth and bonded in heaven, reporters
                    described these tender affairs against backgrounds which even excelled the decorative themes of the
                    contemporary valentines. Every groom was a perfect lover and gentleman, and every bride was as
                    beautiful and pure as driven snow—that is, she was if she had a society wedding.10 As for the plain country lass who had neither the know-how nor the means with
                    which to launch herself in matrimony before a much decorated marriage altar, she sometimes got less
                    than an adulatory report of her wedding. There was, for instance, Dora Glade, a 
                        Kentucky
                     country schoolteacher, whose lover was more intent on matrimony than form, became a
                    pathetic party to a comic wedding. Dora, it was said, was a graceful, buxom nineteen-year-old as
                    slender as a willow, swift as a gazelle and shy as a doe. She was beseiged by a stock type rural
                    snaggle-toothed bumpkin who had heavy hands and a direct manner. He went by the romantic citified
                    name of Larry Farnsworth. Larry wanted Dora badly, but Dora said no, when shet meant yes, and in the
                    end Larry fetched her to 
                  
                     9
                            
                                Stanford
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            , Interior Journal, July 13, 1883.
                  
                     10 McDuffie, 
                                Georgia
                            , Journal, December 1, 1880; Elverton, 
                                Georgia
                            , Gazette, November 10, 1880.
               
                     the justice of the peace. When the brief and impromptu ceremony
                    was ended Dora stood, said the editor, with uplifted and tear-drenched face and "gave in
                    like a wet sack."11
            
            Runaway marriages were a news specialty. Country newspapers along the 
                        Ohio
                     River from 1865 to 1900 were full of Gretna Green affairs. The Queen City of 
                        Cincinnati
                     saw many a country couple hasten over the river or rush down from the cornfields to get
                    hitched in the famous marriage mills. 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Indiana, like some of the old underground railway stations, was a haven of victory for
                    the fleeing couples. No questions were asked, the content of one's blood was a private
                    matter, and the 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana ministers and justices of the peace believed in speeding romance happily
                    along for the price of two dollars.12 There was that Kentuckian who thought to
                    lull his obstinate future in-laws into complacency, while he speeded their ewe lamb across the 
                        Ohio
                    , and hired a quartet to serenade them. While the musicians sang of the old 
                        Kentucky
                     home, the hero of the plot lifted a ladder to a back window; but before he could gather
                    up his prize and flee, a vicious dog downed him and he had to be hauled into the house a bloody
                    unconscious wreck. The next week while he was convalescing from his wounds, the local editor sent
                    his best wishes in the form of a disgracefully funny account of how he had been injured.13 Any irregularity in marriages gave the local editors license to be as
                    frivolous as they pleased so long as they did not touch off a gun battle with grooms and parents.
            Out in 
                        Iowa
                    , it was said a Mr. Belknap ran away with a Mrs. Greene. Before they had gone far they
                    discovered that Mrs. Greene's husband, well mounted and with cocked revolver in hand, was
                    in hot pursuit. The fleeing couple's horse faltered and Mr. Belknap hastened to tell the
                    husband he did not want his wife anymore. 
                        Greene
                     said it was not his wife that he wanted but a dollar and a half of his money which she
                    was carrying away in her purse.14 In the days when railway travel was the source
                    of endless jokes, hundreds of green countryfied honeymooners boarded railway cars and set passengers
                    to tittering. One such southern couple boarded a Southern Railway train bound for 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and when the highly affectionate groom discovered that their fellow passengers were
                    whispering 
                  
                     11
                            
                                Stanford
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            , Interior Journal, November 3, 1882.
                  
                     12
                            
                                Marietta
                            , 
                                Georgia
                            , Journal, February 7, April 7, 1881, March 9, 1882.
                  
                     13
                            
                                Stanford
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            , Interior Journal, October 8, 1875.
                  
                     14
                     Ibid., October 29, 1880.
               
                     and winking, he informed them that he was just married at 7:00
                    P.M., had paid full fare for his bride and himself, and that he was going to hug and kiss his wife
                    as much as he pleased; but before he settled down again to that pastime he was going to give
                    everybody a chance to attend to his own business. He told them before they passed the next telegraph
                    pole if anyone wished to take exceptions to his proposal he was going to create a rising market in 
                        Cincinnati
                     for false teeth and crutches.15 Occasionally, a mock love story
                    went the rounds of the press. It was said that a Miss Hintzelman of Newbern, 
                        North Carolina
                    , agreed to accept a fine set of jewelry from a Mr. Eddy on the condition that she would
                    submit to being kissed once a day for one hundred days. During the first month the bargain was kept
                    without violation from either party, but Mr. Eddy gave in to an impulse to take more than a kiss and
                    added a hug. Miss Hintzelman being a technical lady, as her 
                        German
                     name would imply, demurred on the grounds that the bargain was for a kiss only, and
                    that the hug nullified the agreement and that she was entitled to keep the jewelry without further
                    obligation to Mr. Eddy. Finally a compromise was reached by which the overzealous Eddy was to have
                    the remaining number of kisses, but they were to be no more intimate than a mere brushing of the
                        lips.16 Adventurers, both male and female, beset the rural communities. An
                    editor chortled mightily when it was discovered in his town that the charming little lady who had
                    captured the affections of so many of the local blades was a highly experienced married woman who
                    was reviving her ego a bit by taking a little fling away from her husband and a houseful of
                        children.17
            
            Countless warnings appeared in the papers informing the local girls of the wiles of traveling
                    salesmen. Girls were advised to stick to the home boys. At the same time prosaic editors tried to
                    tell single women to take it easy and not to rush into matrimony. An extra year of courting, they
                    said, was a year of blissful respite from washtubs, cooking stoves, sewing machines, and children.
                    None of these things were regarded as half so pleasant as a beau standing at the door with a
                    beautiful gift on Christmas eve. Despite all the high flown and pious lectures on gentility and
                    private morals, downright risque stories appeared in the papers. Editors had a way of publishing
                        
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., May 21, 1880.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid.
                  
                     17 The papers were full of this sort of news. See Oglethorpe, 
                                Georgia
                            , Echo, February 25, 1874; Calhoun, 
                                Georgia
                            , Times, March 4, 1886, and May 2, 1889.
               
                     this kind of material with the blandest sort of innocence. No
                    doubt they read such fertile sources as unexpurgated editions of Balzac, Boccacio's Decameron, and Chaucer's 
                  
                            Canterbury
                         Tales. Whatever the sources, unbelievably bold stories with local applications
                    found their way into print. All of this convinces the modern reader that maybe the earlier
                    generations of Americans had much lustier tastes that seemed to be so on the surface.18
            
            Where ready-print editors had refused to mention female clothing, the local editors overworked the
                    subject. Hats, petticoats, garters, brassieres, and stockings all came in for their share of
                    facetious remarks. This subject of female dress seemed ever to have had an evil fascination. A
                    sample of editorial dallying with the delicacy of ladies' clothing is the following
                    whimsicality. It was said a sweet young lady went into a store to purchase a pair of garters, and
                    explained her wish to a clerk in the following obscure manner: "It is my desire to obtain a
                    pair of circular appendages, capable of being contracted or expanded by means of oscillated
                    burnished steel appliances, that sparked like particles of gold leaf set with 
                        Alaska
                     diamonds, and which are utilized for retaining in proper position the habiliments of
                    the lower extremities, which inanimate delicacy forbids me to mention."19 Despite all this frivolity, there was underneath a staunch vein of the strictest gentility
                    and moral conviction that the American woman was the epitome of grace and virtue, and if her
                    reputation was sullied, country editors stood ready to do battle as vigorously aroused and
                    ink-smeared knights.
            In an altogether different field of social activity, the rural press has preserved a fabulous record
                    of violence in America. No historian has undertaken a major study of this important aspect of
                    American social history. Frequent mention of violence has been made in books treating the westward
                    movement, but basically the whole national story still lies unexploited. This is a ghastly chapter
                    in history, and its telling would be repulsive to a marked degree, but a great part of the local and
                    state income has been spent in combating this social failure. Criminal violence has ever been highly
                    newsworthy. When a crime occurred, it not only received front-page coverage in the locality, but
                    numerous services spread the news abroad. Endless columns of grand jury presentments, and the
                    results of court trials were emphasized. No one has examined the grand 
                  
                     18 The Hazlehurst, 
                                Mississippi
                            , Copiahan, December 3, 1881.
                  
                     19
                            
                                Stanford
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            , Interior Journal, October 8, 1880.
               
                     jury from the point of view of its endless indictments and
                    recommendations, despite the fact the American people have placed great confidence in the
                    institution. Murder, robbery, rape, resistance to social discrimination, labor disputes, community
                    feuds, race outbreaks, family fights, and regulator wars have all abounded in American social
                    development. Using no other source than the country newspaper, the historian can reconstruct much of
                    this unhappy but meaningful chapter of the past. However much the squeamish would like to ignore
                    much of it, it is a fact that a fully rounded history cannot be written without some consideration
                    of this phase of American social life. The young scholar who takes time, and who has enough
                    imagination to dredge this important source of information on the occurrence of crime will make a
                    significant contribution to American historical scholarship.
            In general, the history of agricultural development has been outlined in numerous historical and
                    scientific studies. Several books have given good accounts of the age of agricultural unrest and
                    dissatisfaction following the Civil War, but none of them has come to grips with the real social
                    aspects of farm life at the local level. The country newspaper was primarily a servant of the
                    farmer. It publicized his social and economic life, and depended upon him for subscriptions and as
                    patrons of its advertisers. If the farmer became displeased with his paper, the editor soon found
                    himself without business. Also, editors knew that in a final analysis such political favors as they
                    enjoyed came indirectly from farmer subscribers because they largely controlled local politics and
                    patronages. This, however, was not a hard and fast rule. The country publisher was generally a
                    conservative man who wedded his editorial policy to that of one or the other of the major political
                    parties. When farmers went running after third party movements, editors undertook to counsel them to
                    go slow and seek reforms through the established political order. The intimate story of the Alliance
                    and the Populists' social activities are told in the weekly papers. Few of the formal
                    histories of this important upheaval in American politics have presented these reform movements as
                    they applied specifically to the local communities.
            Aside from the purely political and economic affairs of the American farm, the weekly newspaper has
                    recorded an earthy picture of weather conditions, the succession of seasons, and the results of
                    harvests. On a broader scale the mouldering pages of the local journals contain an intimate view of
                    the whole fabric of rural life. Its social affairs, religious meetings,  tragedies, disappointments, failures, limited vision, reluctances to
                    admit the need for change all stand revealed. Southern country papers, for instance, hammered away
                    incessantly for four generations in an effort to improve the way of life on the southern farm.
                    Preaching a doctrine of diversifications, and living at home, they fussed at their obstinate
                    subscribers from one crop season to another. Their doctrine of progress was a fundamentally sound
                    one, but their technique was that of a futile and constant scold. The editors really failed
                    miserably to develop sound answers for their constituents' agricultural woes. It was in
                    their power to help develop better markets, the grading of produce, supplying better market
                    information, publicizing newer farming methods, and to advocate extensive agricultural education. No
                    really good study of farming; as a way of life can be written without historians spending long hours
                    turning the pages of country newspapers. The advertisements, stock and produce sales accounts,
                    farmer picnics, and social gatherings all present a graphic picture of everyday living.20
            
            The rural mind, and it is perhaps no different from any other, has ever been captivated by the
                    unusual. Rural life at best has had its long drab periods, and anything that broke the tedium was of
                    genuine interest. Also, country editors were hard pressed at times to find enough news to fill up
                    their two home-printed pages. As a result, the sources of American folk culture are much richer.
                    Ghost stories by the hundreds were published. Whether or not editors believed them, they found their
                    news value sufficiently good to give them space. Skeletons were found in caves, wells, hollow trees,
                    and buried beneath houses. All of these were paraded across printed pages with speculation as to how
                    they met their fate. Occasionally these stories were made complete by giving the solutions of
                    age-old community mysteries. Any strange natural phenomenon was recorded. The rural American has
                    ever had a long standing respect for the sky. Being out under it so much, and being so vitally
                    concerned with weather conditions, it was an impelling factor in his life. Any curious cloud
                    formation at once took on an ominous meaning. Forever people were reporting that they had seen the
                    national Great Seal, the figure of a woman, of a giant eagle, or the reflection of cities in the
                    sky. Things fell out of the clouds. Fish dropped down to 
                  
                     20 Oglethorpe, 
                                Georgia
                            , Echo, September 17, 1875; 
                                Marietta
                            , 
                                Georgia
                            , Journal, March 9, 1882; Livingston, 
                                Alabama
                            , Our Southern Home, October 1, 1902; 
                                Schley County
                            , 
                                Georgia
                            , News, December 22, 1888, and January 5, 1899.
               
                     flounder on dry land, frog eggs were strewn over the
                    countryside, flesh and blood were said to have poured down, and rocks thundered earthward. The sun,
                    moon, and stars performed curious antics. Shooting stars, eclipses, and comets all helped to create
                    an important volume of folklore. Especially was this true of Halley's comet whose tale
                    was said to have swept so close to the earth that it threatened to set the world on fire.21
            
            Nature herself stirred the wonder of the countryman. Plants grew into every conceivable form. The
                    common Irish potato was a master of contortion and editorial desks were littered with unearthly
                    specimens which resembled everything from Shakespeare to Gabriel's trumpet. Out of hen
                    houses came a veritable succession of abnormalia in the form of eggs connected together as Siamese
                    twins, with discolorations on the shells in the form of plainly visible letters and other mysterious
                    markings. The superstitious believed that all these phenomenon had some foreboding, usually evil,
                    for the future. Lambs grew single spiraled horns that made them unicorns, pigs were born hairless,
                    with eyes of sheep, the noses of monkeys, the ears of rabbits, the horns of bulls, and with two
                    heads. Persimmon trees were said to sprout from the backs of grub worms, fence posts grew limbs, and
                    roses forgot the seasons and bloomed in winter. A sample of these lusus nature
                    stories is the following describing a two headed chicken as reported by the 
                        Franklin
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , 
                        
                            Patriot
                        
                    , "Generally," wrote the editor, "two heads are better than one but
                    in this case the hackneyed proverb was proven to be fallible, as the chicken had succumbed to its
                    unusual phrenological development and was far beyond the allurements of bread crumbs and bugs. That
                    is to say, the chicken was dead."22
            
            Whatever the miracles of nature, the editorial desks were ever littered with wonders fetched in for
                    all to see. The more edible of these were big watermelons, peaches, glasses of egg nog, hams, and
                    other delicacies. Without these wonders the columns of the papers would now be much less
                    interesting, and certainly life would have been less exciting at the time the stories were current.
            Buried treasures have always been subjects of good stories. During the Civil War many people hid
                    their tableware and money, and some of them lost track of their caches. In later years treasure
                    hunters were forever digging in search of these valuables. Misers died and left their fortunes
                    hidden 
                  
                     21
                            
                                Athens
                            , 
                                Tennessee
                            , Post, March 20, 1874.
                  
                     22 Chatham, 
                                North Carolina
                            , Record, January 9, 1879; 
                                Franklin
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            , 
                                
                                    Patriot
                                
                            , May 31, 1876.
               
                     away in cabin walls and in the ground, and armies of fortune
                    seekers went looking for them. Along the Atlantic Seaboard and the gulf coasts accounts of pirate
                    treasures stirred readers to action. Sometimes fabulous stories were set afloat of rich natural
                    mineral deposits. Eastern newspapers published provocative accounts of finding pirate loot in the
                    sands. Imaginative editors asked only two things of an incident which promised a story: first, that
                    it be good and juicy, and, second, that it offer enough copy to fill at least half a column.23
            
            In many a country village there was not enough news to fill the paper, and there was grave danger of
                    getting into hot disputes in the fabrication of stories. In such a situation the editors turned to
                    the realm of the tall tales. Such a space filler was an account by the editor of the Lenoir, 
                        North Carolina
                    , Topic, about a whirlwind of tornado proportions which pursued a
                    passenger train for miles down a straight line of track. The engineer looked back and saw doom
                    coming so he opened his throttle wide and undertook to outrun the squall. For miles the train sped
                    on with the storm in hot pursuit and gaining steadily. Just as the first swirls of the twister swept
                    around the rear of the train, the track made a sharp turn and the storm kept on its course thus
                    saving the passengers and the train.24 Another good space filler was a story of
                    lost cattle in the Huntingdon Lake region of 
                        Nevada
                    . Ranchers were said to be losing their cattle without their leaving any trace behind.
                    One day a cowboy discovered the mouth of a long narrow cave and found that the missing cows were
                    going into the side of a mountain in search of water and were packed into the narrow passage way,
                    and lacked enough gumption to back out. As a result a string of imprisoned animals reached almost
                    through the mountain.25
            
            There was no end to the tall story or filler matter. 
                        Texas
                     came in for much joking. It was said a preacher in 
                        Texas
                     tried to get a sermon started, but there was so much pistol firing that he could not
                    make himself heard. When a stray bullet crashed a glass of water in his hand he asked if there was
                    another preacher in the house. When a brother down in the front row stood up he asked to borrow his
                    spare pistol and went outside. After a considerable amount of shooting the irate 
                  
                     23 A sample story is that of the Honorable Albert Buford's
                            gold which was buried in 1863, and which was found in 1881. The 
                                Pulaski
                            , 
                                Tennessee
                            , Citizen, May 5, 1881. Another account of treasure is to be
                            found in the Newberry, 
                                South Carolina
                            , Herald and News, August 13, 1891.
                  
                     24 Lenoir, 
                                North Carolina
                            , Topic, April 9, 1884.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Stanford
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            , Interior Journal, October 8, 1880.
               
                     parson returned to the pulpit with a nose and an ear dangling
                    from his hand. He laid these on the Bible saying to the congregation, "He that hath ears to
                    hear let him behave himself."26 Preachers in the abstract were the
                    butts of many newspaper jokes. The editor of the 
                        Stanford
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , Interior Journal published a space filler about the Reverend Petry
                    Cox of Cox's Gap, 
                        Kentucky
                    , who called on a parishioner. He had no more than seated himself when an old hen flew
                    in the window and lit on the barrel of a loaded gun, knocking it down and shooting the
                    chicken-hungry parson through the hip.27 Writing about preachers and religious
                    affairs was a delicate matter for the editor. Of all the patrons of a newspaper, none was more
                    critical than they and their ardent church members. Despite this sensitivity the weekly press
                    published a revealing story of religious affairs and attitudes.
            Occasionally an editor circulated a partially completed yarn among his fellows, and as it passed from
                    one editorial desk to another it grew into either a full blown column of crude humor, or a pathetic
                    tale of sadness and defeat. Sometimes an imaginative publisher would begin a lying campaign in which
                    he tried to outdo his fellows by describing strange animals which prowled his territory, or
                    recounting perfectly impossible happenings which frightened more gullible readers half to death. In
                    this respect many a country publisher was also a reporter for city dailies and he sometimes made up
                    for the lack of news by fabricating impossible yarns which were published for fact.
            One of the functions of the country paper, stated in many dedicatory promises, was to guard the
                    public against the slick swindlers who preyed upon isolated rural people. At least five traditional
                    types of wolves have fattened on the ignorant and unwary countrymen in the 
                        United States
                    . These were patent medicine men, lightning rod agents, salesmen who offered
                    anti-explosion powders to be used in kerosene lamps, cheap money salesmen, and the patent
                    infringement rascals.28 Patent medicine men worked through the papers as well as
                    on their own. As a matter of fact the country press made the vast patent medicine business possible.
                    The Lydia Pinkham Company could hardly have survived without the tremendous campaigns conducted by
                    its imaginative advertising manager James T. Wetherald. As early as 1895 this company spent eight
                    hundred thousand dollars annually for space in newspapers, 
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., May 7, 1880.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., October 1, 1880.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., February 18, 1876, December 24, 1880.
               
                     and in 1898 this figure was increased to one million three
                    hundred thousand dollars. Wetherald was said to have considered the country weeklies the second best
                    source of advertising. When Charles Pinkham died on November 10, 1900, he was considered
                    America's most important advertiser, and his company's black and white line
                    drawings were said to be the best display advertising in use at that time.29
            
            Peruna of 
                        Columbus
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , enjoyed a highly profitable sale largely because impressionable countrymen read about
                    it in their country papers. Those magic diminutive pellets, Carter's little Liver Pills,
                    which has just felt the heavy hand of the Federal Trade Commission, have long enjoyed the luscious
                    returns of cheap rural advertising. Currently Senator Dudley LeBlanc of 
                        Louisiana
                    , a self-styled friend of man—especially old men—is reaping a
                    golden harvest from the same source with his wonder tonic Hadacol.
            Lightning rod salesmen did not buy space in the papers, and the bitter attacks directed against them
                    might have been engendered partly by this fact. An editorial maxim was, "Regard not the
                    siren voice of him who peddles lightning rods for a living." These unscrupulous leeches
                    made perfectly fantastic propositions to their simple-minded customers. One was an offer to give
                    away the first thirty feet of rod and to throw in a five dollar bill for good measure. This usually
                    broke down the resistance of the victim, who forgot to ask how much the additional footage would
                    cost. Another fine swindle was that of the man who claimed to be a patent medicine man, but who did
                    not work too hard at his trade. His trick was to make friends with farmers and then repay their
                    hospitality by showing them how to make a new kind of automatic gate. When he had equipped a number
                    of farms with his gates, he left the community. In a few days a second man appeared and threatened
                    to sue those who had infringed his patent unless they paid from ten to thirty dollars royalty on
                    each illegal gate they had in use.30 Country roads were kept hot by peddlers who
                    went from house to house selling powders and colored salts which they claimed would prevent kerosene
                    lamps from exploding. If the country papers are to be even partly credited with telling the truth,
                    then our father's and grandfather's generations of Americans were indeed
                    simple, gullible ones.
            
               
                  29 Jean Burton, Lydia Pinkham Is Her Name (
                            New York
                        , 1949), 223–31.
               
                  30
                        
                            Stanford
                        , 
                            Kentucky
                        , Interior Journal, April 30, 1880.
            
            
            Not all the materials in the country journals, of course, reflected gullibility, criminality, casual
                    curiosity, or frivolity. The great bulk of space was taken up with description of simple day-to-day
                    community affairs. Local columns kept readers posted on what was happening about them, and who was
                    important enough week-by-week to get their names in the paper. On anniversary occasions there were
                    reviews of local history and accomplishments. On centennial occasions county and institutional
                    histories of considerable merit were published. In 1876 the whole system of American country
                    newspapers promoted and published histories of their counties, biographies of their famous citizens,
                    and personal recollections of old timers. This vast storehouse of materials has been largely
                    undisturbed in the last sixty years. Records of all kinds of crusades await discovery by industrious
                    historians. So far only the accounts of the national and broader regional aspects of prohibition,
                    temperance, woman suffrage, public education, and other social uplift crusades have received
                    attention. The primary grass roots efforts are just as interesting, and sometimes they are more
                    fundamental. These are the ones which reflect the opinions of the home folks. Also, they are the
                    ones which more often than not were given generous amounts of space and editorial treatment by the
                    local publishers.
            It would be impossible to write a truthful history of the public education movement in this country
                    without use of the country newspapers. It was they who crusaded for education from the beginning.
                    Not only did editors have a genuinely altruistic attitude toward this vital community service, but
                    likewise the selfish one of wanting readers. Every aspect of educational advancement is reflected in
                    the news stories, and most of the local philosophy of education is reflected in the abundance of
                    editorial comment.
            It can be said with assurance that many of the studies of the American mind and culture touch only
                    the more formal aspects of the subject. Not until scholars have dug out the editorials and news
                    stories of the country newspapers can they present a fully rounded history of the American mind.
                    After all the rural mind and social mores are a tremendously significant part of
                    America's intellectual structure.
         
         
         
            Nineteenth Century Medicine
            
                    Hugh M. Ayer*
               
                
            "The Prophet is gone but his Mantle is upon us." These words, coming from the lips
                    of an eminent eastern professor in 1832,1 held more meaning than was realized by
                    the one who spoke them, for they introduced to America a system of pseudo-medical science which was
                    to be a subject of controversy, ridicule, and speculation for more than half a century. The
                    "Prophet" was John Kaspar Spurzheim; his "Mantle" was
                    phrenology, the study of the conformation of the skull as indicative of mental faculties.
            Franz Joseph Gall of 
                        Vienna
                     was the first to make an extensive study of the physiology and constitution of the
                    brain. Before 1802 he had produced his Nervous System, which had been highly
                    esteemed and had passed through several editions, but in that year the government of 
                        Austria
                    , urged on by the clergy, forbade the teaching of Gall's peculiar doctrine,
                    as dangerous to religion.2 Not to be outdone, however, Gall made his way to 
                        France
                     where some of the ablest professors accepted his teachings.
            But it was Spurzheim and George Combe, two of Gall's most ardent disciples, who expanded
                    the system and adopted for it the name of phrenology.3 Spurzheim continued to
                    expound his theories in 
                        Paris
                     until Georges Cuvier, the great French zoologist, showed that if the phrenologists were
                    correct about the location and relative size of the thinking organs then mice, moles, sheep, and
                    goats would be wiser than the most learned man.4 This ended
                    Spurzheim's career in 
                        France
                    . He then cast wistful eyes toward 
                        England
                    , but that country, having received word of Cuvier's opinion, would have
                    nothing to do with phrenology.
            
               
                  * Hugh M. Ayer is a graduate student in history at Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana. This article is a chapter of his master's thesis at Indiana
                        University, 1950, written under the direction of R. Carlyle Buley.
               
                  1 Grace Adams and Edward Hutter, The Mad Forties (
                            New York
                        , 1942), 60.
               
                  2 Alexander Wilder, History of Medicine (New Sharon, 
                            Maine
                        , 1901), 288.
               
                  3
                        Ibid., 289. There is some difference of opinion on this last point. It has
                        been said that Gall and his early followers referred to the system as cranioscopy, craniology,
                        physiognomy, or zoonomy, and that it was Thomas Ignatius Forster who later named it phrenology.
               
                  4 Adams and Hutter, Mad Forties, 63.
            
            
            In America, where the opinions of French scientists commanded less respect, and where they were even
                    less known, Spurzheim found a more receptive audience. Arriving in the 
                        United States
                     in August, 1832, he immediately launched into a series of lectures on phrenology which
                    "attracted alike the fashionable and the learned, the gay and the grave, the aged and the
                    young, the sceptic and the Christian." So great was his popularity "that often he
                    had to attend divine services five times on a single Sabbath in order to occupy all the pews in
                    which he had been invited to sit."5
            
            Scarcely three months after his arrival in America, Spurzheim's promising career as the
                    father of American phrenology was cut short by death, which has been attributed to the dry and
                    highly electrically charged atmosphere of America and the high mental excitement of Americans.6 But the apt obituary, quoted above, indicated that Spurzheim had left his
                    mark, and that more was to be heard of the new theories which had seized the imagination of his
                    American friends.
            Early nineteenth century America was ripe for the introduction of this new science. Although medical
                    practitioners of the early 1800's were no exception to the rule that every period of
                    history finds men thinking themselves more advanced than were their predecessors, the fact remains
                    that in medicine, as in politics, it was a period of controversy, uncertainty, and clashing ideas.
                    Especially was this true of the western states, 
                        Ohio
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , Indiana, etc., where doctors were scarce and where the people so often, whether by
                    choice or necessity, relied upon their own concoctions for the treatment of disease.
            The few doctors who chose to practice in this region were so handicapped by the lack of education,
                    supplies, and transportation facilities, that it is little wonder that many of the settlers
                    preferred to use their own remedies, or to avail themselves of the services of the ever-present
                    quacks.
            The following account written by Dr. Robert Boal, is an apt description of what the average midwest
                    doctor was up against. "The doctor had to be his own pharmacist. He made his own pills and
                    tinctures, compounded all his medicines, and generally carried all he required, as, with saddle-bags
                    across his horse, he wended his way from house to house, administering 
                  
                     5 George Combe, Notes on the 
                                    United States
                                 of North America During a Phrenological Visit in
                                1838–9–40 (2 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1841), I, 59; Adams and Hutter, Mad Forties, 62.
                  
                     6 Combe, Notes on the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , I, 59–60.
               
                     to the sick and ailing, always welcome and often regarded as an
                    angel of mercy, although his homely garb and rough appearance looked anything but angelic. His life
                    was one of peril, toil and privation. The country was new and thinly settled, and his rides were
                    long and solitary; his patients were scattered over a wide expanse of territory; his travel was
                    mostly performed on horseback, and its extent and duration was measured by the endurance of himself
                    and his horse. He struggled through … mud and swamps and swollen streams. He was often
                    compelled to make long detours…. His rest was often taken in the saddle. …
                    From necessity he was self-reliant and courageous. Every emergency … he was generally
                    compelled to meet alone and unaided. … His fees were small and his services were often
                    paid for in promises, seldom in money, of which there was but little. The products of the country
                    … was the general and most reliable circulating medium, and with this the doctor was
                    usually paid."7
            
            There were few books to which the early midwest doctor could turn for guidance. Equipment was equally
                    scarce. He usually had a stethoscope—after 1830—and sometimes he was fortunate
                    enough to possess pewter bedpans, and a few other items; but more often he used whatever was
                    available. Any shingle was good enough for a splint, while the physician's fingers served
                    as measures of temperature and blood pressure. His drugs were typified by horseradish, skunk
                    cabbage, sage, thorn apple, butternut, elder, throatwort, and slippery elm. There was also some
                    mercury, quinine, and bismuth—and lots of calomel, which some physicians prescribed for
                    almost everything.8 Bleeding was highly recommended and widely used, as was
                    cupping or leeching, and enemas. Castor oil and opium were also popular.9
            
            The western physician was a public servant as well as a pill roller. He was expected to answer any
                    type of call in any kind of weather at any time of day; it was far from unusual for him to act as a
                    judge or as a minister. "George H. Weaver reported an account of a Yorkville, 
                        Illinois
                    , physician who one day informed a colleague from 
                        Aurora
                     that he had performed 
                  
                     7 Quoted in Otto Juettner, Daniel Drake and His
                            Followers (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1909), 87–88.
                  
                     8 Howard C. Dittrick, "The Equipment, Instruments and Drugs
                            of Pioneer Physicians in 
                                Ohio
                            ," 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 State Archaeological and Historical Quarterly (
                                Columbus
                            , 1887-), XLVIII (1939), 200–3, 208.
                  
                     9 David A. Tucker, "Methods of Treatment of Some of the More
                            Common Diseases by the Pioneer Physician of 
                                Ohio
                            ," ibid., 215.
               
                     an operation and tried a lawsuit that day. The 
                        Aurora
                     practitioner replied that he had, in the same time, visited his patients, tried a
                    lawsuit and preached a funeral service."10 With these extra duties
                    thrown on the already seriously overloaded physician, the situation was almost unbearable. The
                    results were many dissatisfied patients and a constant clamor for more and better doctors.
            A major cause of the scarcity of doctors was the lack of medical education in the region. In 1833
                    there were only two medical colleges west of the Alleghenies—the Medical Department of
                    Transylvania University, founded by Dr. Benjamin W. Dudley in 1817, and the Medical College of 
                        Ohio
                    , founded by Dr. Daniel Drake in 1819. By 1835 the Medical College of 
                        Ohio
                     had graduated 239 doctors, and it was during this period that the Medical Department of
                    Transylvania was at its peak. But it is doubtful, with conditions as they were, that all of these
                    graduates remained in the West. Many western doctors had been trained in the medical schools of the
                    East, such as 
                        Harvard
                     and the University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and a few had even studied in Europe. But prior to 1835, at least, a majority of the
                    western doctors got their training by serving apprenticeships—usually three
                    years—and had no medical degrees.11
            
            Thus, poorly trained and meagerly equipped, the pioneer doctor went forth to battle the elements and
                    administer to the ailing. That he met with dissatisfaction and competition is hardly surprising. He
                    was accused of disseminating poisonous medicine and of bleeding his patients too generously.
                    Furthermore, he was criticized for bleeding the purses of his patients too severely, a criticism not
                    altogether unfounded.12 That the regular doctors promised no certain cures, as
                    did many of the irregulars, was also a cause for suspicion on the part of the 
                  
                     10 William F. Norwood, Medical Education in the 
                                    United States
                                 Before the Civil War (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1944), 284–85.
                  
                     11 Donald D. Shira, "The Organization of the 
                                Ohio
                             State Medical Society and Its Relations to the 
                                Ohio
                             Medical Convention," 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 State Archaeological and Historical Quarterly, L (1941), 366, 367;
                            Frederick C. Waite, "The Professional Education of Pioneer Physicians,"
                                ibid., XLVIII, 189, 191; Norwood, Medical Education,
                            284.
                  
                     12 A medical code written in 
                                Cincinnati
                             in 1821 set up the following list of fees: for a visit, 50¢; visit
                            and first consultation, $5; visit and extracting a tooth, $1; for rising in the night and
                            visit, $2; for a case of midwifery, $10; for amputation of large limbs, $30; for amputation
                            of fingers, toes, etc., $7; for vaccine innoculations, $2. Juettner, Daniel
                                Drake, 96–97. Compared with modern standards these fees appear extremely
                            small, but to the western pioneer, whose money was scarce and hard to come by, they probably
                            seemed anything but trivial.
               
                     pioneer. In addition, and perhaps most important of all, the
                    people were more familiar with the simple herb remedies.13 The American
                    scientific mind, which eventually was to throw out most of these simple remedies, had not yet
                    developed.
            Faced with these conditions, and catering to these ideas, the western pioneer turned to the less
                    reputable practitioners for relief. "The quack, the medical confidence-man, was very much
                    in evidence in the early days. Human credulity and stupidity prepared a rich harvest for charlatans
                    of all kinds." And by the middle of the nineteenth century no less than seventeen
                    "varieties" of doctors, in addition to the regular members of the profession, were
                    named as practicing: eclectic, botanic, homeopathic, uroscopian, old Thomsonian, hydropathic,
                    electric, faith, spiritual, herbalist, electropathic, vita-pathic, botanico-medical, physio-medical,
                    physio-electric, hygeo-therapeutic, and "traveling."14
            
            Efforts were made to curb the growth of quackery, but without success. 
                        Ohio
                     was the leader in this movement. As early as 1811 its legislature passed a law which
                    divided the state into five medical districts and named three censors in each "whose duties
                    it was to issue licenses to those desiring to practice medicine."15 But
                    this act, having proved to be inadequate, was repealed in 1812; and the Medical Society of the State
                    of 
                        Ohio
                     was set up as a legal body to examine candidates and issue licenses. This was followed
                    in 1818 by an act which gave legal recognition to formal medical education. All of these efforts
                    proved of little avail, however, and in 1833 the state legislature, "discouraged at the
                    futile attempt to suppress quackery by law, gave up in despair and repealed all existing laws
                    pertaining to the practice of physic and surgery," and until 1896—sixty-three
                    years later— anyone who wished could practice medicine in 
                        Ohio
                    .16 The situation was much the same in the other western states.
            Medical practitioners of the early nineteenth century ranged from the ultra-conservative old-line
                    members of the 
                  
                     13 Madge Pickard and R. Carlyle Buley, The Midwest
                                Pioneer: His 
                                    Ills
                                , Cures and Doctors (
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, 1945), 179.
                  
                     14 Juettner, Daniel Drake, 92; Pickard and Buley,
                                Midwest Pioneer, 169.
                  
                     15 Juettner, Daniel Drake, 85.
                  
                     16 Donald D. Shira, "The Legal Requirements for Medical
                            Practice —An Attempt to Regulate by Law and the Purpose Behind the
                            Movement," 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 State Archaeological and Historical Quarterly, XLVIII,
                            183–88.
               
                     profession, who believed that medical science had reached the
                    ultimate and was no longer subject to improvement, to the pure and unadulterated quacks who depended
                    upon the ignorance and superstitions of the pioneers to bring them business.
            Though it is not the purpose of this work to discuss in detail any of the various branches of the
                    medical profession as practiced in the West in the early nineteenth century, a brief outline of a
                    few of the more representative ones is necessary in order for one to understand and appreciate the
                    scope and nature of the career of the subject of this study. For studied apart from this setting,
                    the ideas and teachings of Joseph Rodes Buchanan take on a grotesque and ridiculous appearance of
                    which they are largely undeserving.
            Although unorthodox methods in medicine are generally associated with the western pioneer, in reality
                    many—perhaps most—of them did not originate in the West, or even in America.
                    Europe and Asia were the birthplace of many of them, from whence they found their way to the eastern
                    seaboard of the New World and from there eventually moved into the 
                        Mississippi
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     valleys. That the pioneers were not the only gullible persons in the world was fully
                    demonstrated by the success which Gall and Spurzheim had in continental Europe, and by the
                    overwhelming popularity which the latter enjoyed in the eastern part of this country. True, they met
                    with opposition in both places, but this opposition came mainly from the conservative old-line
                    practitioners; and this same group, though smaller in numbers, was equally opposed to the
                    introduction of new methods into the West.
            Homeopathy was one system of medicine which sprang from a European origin. Based on the theory that
                    diseases may be cured by remedies which produce on a healthy person effects similar to the symptoms
                    of the complaint of the patient, it was developed by Samuel Christian Friedrich Hahnemann in the
                    latter part of the eighteenth century.
            Born in 
                        Germany
                     in 1755, Hahnemann began the study of medicine early in life and soon developed an
                    aversion to the excessive use of bleeding and mercury in the profession. He advocated the
                    improvement of sanitation and recommended the quarantining of contagious diseases; he also urged
                    frequent bathing, pure air, and proper clothing, all of which were revolutionary ideas in those
                    days. Using himself as a guinea pig, Hahnemann began experimenting with various types of drugs and
                    eventually discovered the law of similars, i.e., that a drug 
                    would cure a disease similar to the symptoms produced on a healthy person who took the drug; hence
                    the name, homeopathy, derived from the Greek words meaning "like" and
                    "disease." In 1796, Hahnemann presented his findings to the world through his
                    "Essay on a New Principle" in which he expounded the theory of the law of similars
                    and also maintained that the dynamic effect of drugs is increased by giving them in very small
                    doses, diluted even to a decillionth of the original strength.17
            
            Homeopathy was first introduced into the 
                        United States
                     by Hans Burch Gram in 1825. Ferdinand L. Wisely was probably the first American convert
                    to the idea, but he was soon joined by others, and by 1836 the first homeopathics were reported to
                    be in 
                        Ohio
                    . In this region homeopathy enjoyed a tremendous growth, which may have been due in part
                    to the current decline of Thomsonianism.18
            
            By the late 1830's several homeopaths were practicing in 
                        Kentucky
                    , but Dr. Storm Rosa became the pioneer teacher of the system in the West, when he
                    established the Chair of Homeopathy at the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Eclectic Institute in 1849. There he succeeded in converting some members of the
                    faculty and several students, but fear of competition caused the eclectics to dismiss him and to
                    abolish the chair within a few months. The year following Dr. Rosa's ill-fated experience
                    with the eclectics, the 
                        Cleveland
                     Homeopathic Medical College was opened and remained the western center of homeopathic
                    training for many years.19
            
            Despite the fact that the homeopathics made many converts in the turbulent West, they were just one
                    cult among 
                  
                     17 Lucy S. Hetzog, "The Rise of Homeopathy," ibid., XLIX (1940), 332–33, 334; Pickard and Buley, Midwest Pioneer, 200. In 1849, Joseph Rodes Buchanan wrote that neurology
                            explained the philosophy and modus agendi of homeopathy, by demonstrating
                            the fine susceptibilities upon which homeopathy acts, and by showing the relations of
                            medicines to the various organs of the human constitution. "It goes beyond
                            homeopathy, providing not only that infinitesimal portions of medicine may be effective, but
                            that medicines have their effect even without being received into the body." Buchanan's Journal of Man (6 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                             and 
                                Boston
                            , 1849–1856), I, 286.
                  
                     18 Pickard and Buley, Midwest Pioneer,
                            208–9. See also Wilder, History of Medicine, 316ff.
                  
                     19 Pickard and Buley, Midwest Pioneer,
                            210–11. George Harding, father of President Warren G. Harding, got a diploma from
                            the 
                                Cleveland
                             Homeopathic Medical College in 1873. Samuel H. Adams, Incredible
                                Era: The Life and Times of 
                                    Warren
                                 Gamaliel Harding (
                                Boston
                            , 1939), 5.
               
                     many and were destined, in time, to the same fate which met the
                    others. But homeopathy made its contribution to modern medical science, as did the other cults; for
                    Hahnemann's ideas about sanitation, quarantining, fresh air, and the like, were
                    eventually to be adopted, though it would be pretentious to assume that he was the only one to have
                    had such ideas.
            Thomsonianism was more nearly a native child of American minds and methods. Developed by Samuel
                    Thomson of 
                        New Hampshire
                     in the early 1800's, it swept the country in the 1830's and
                    1840's. Thomson's thesis was that heat is the basis of health and that to
                    prevent death it is necessary only to prevent the departure of heat from the body. It followed then
                    that poor health was the result of a deficiency of heat and that to restore health one must return
                    the body heat to its natural extent.20
            
            For treatments, Thomson relied mainly on various herb concoctions, which he called Composition No. 1,
                    Composition No. 3, etc. Of the herbs, his favorite was the pokeweed, but he also employed steam
                    baths, electric shock, and other equally novel treatments.21
            
            In his native New 
                        England
                     state, Thomson met with much opposition, particularly from the orthodox members of the
                    medical profession. But, taking them all in stride, he eventually came out victorious when in 1813
                    and again in 1823, the 
                        New Hampshire
                     legislature gave him special permission to operate. With this legal backing Thomson was
                    able to spread his doctrine until by 1839 he claimed three million followers in the 
                        United States
                    .22
            
            As in the case of homeopathy, the stronghold of Thomsonianism in the West was in 
                        Ohio
                    .23 In 1835, the Thomsonians claimed that one-half the population of 
                        Ohio
                     depended on their remedies. Alva Curtis, who has been called both an ardent advocate
                    and an active opponent of Thomsonianism, became editor of the Thomsonian Recorder
                    in 1835, and in 1836 
                  
                     20 Pickard and Buley, Midwest Pioneer,
                            169–70.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., 171, 178.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., 172, 178.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Ohio
                             seems to have been the hotbed of unorthodox medical cults. One writer said that
                            this was because of its geographical position, fertile soil, etc., which attracted settlers
                            from three different cultural areas— 
                                Virginia
                            , 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , and New 
                                England
                            —resulting in political struggles, religious struggles, and struggles
                            between regular medics and various "non-regular" medical cults. Frederick
                            C. Waite, "Thomsonianism in 
                                Ohio
                            ," 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 State Archaeological and Historical Quarterly, XLIX, 322.
               
                     he succeeded in getting a charter for the Physio-Medical
                    College which began operation at 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1839.24
            
            But trouble was brewing for the cult as early as 1827 when Wooster Beach later of eclectic fame, who
                    had been one of Thomson's early followers, split with Thomson over the question of
                    establishing botanical medical schools to train men in the cult. Thomson opposed such a move and the
                    result was that Beach established his own school in 
                        New York
                     in 1827. The schism between Beach and Thomson became more pronounced in 1837, the same
                    year in which the last patent issued to Thomson by the 
                        New Hampshire
                     legislature in 1823 expired. These two events, together with the growing opposition of
                    certain 
                        Ohio
                     botanics to the Thomsonian system, began the final decline of Thomsonianism, and
                    following the death of Thomson, in 1843, the cult went to pieces. Remnants of it found their way to
                    various other groups, and a few even joined the regular school;25 but the force
                    of the movement was broken, leaving the way open for the up and coming eclectic movement.
            Another cult which came in for its share of popularity was hydropathy, perhaps better known simply as
                    the "water cure." Based on the curative powers of water, it became, in the 
                        United States
                    , a rival of homeopathy, but seems never to have attained the popularity in the West
                    which homeopathy enjoyed.26
            
            Hydropathy came into the world rather suddenly about 1829 when Vincent Priessnitz, an untutored,
                    simple-minded peasant of Austrian Silesia, one day cut his leg badly while cutting wood. To stop the
                    bleeding he dipped it in a nearby spring, and found that the wound healed in record time.27 Recognizing an opportunity to cash in on a chance discovery, Priessnitz
                    developed and expanded the art of water curing until it eventually gained a wide following.
            The methods of hydropathy were both numerous and unique. It employed the use of ice lumps, wet
                    sheets, the water 
                  
                     24 See conflicting views in ibid., 328, and
                            Juettner, Daniel Drake, 110. The former referred to Curtis as one of the
                            most prominent botanies in 
                                Ohio
                             who opposed Thomsonianism. The evidence seems to favor Juettner's
                            view.
                  
                     25 Waite, "Thomsonianism in 
                                Ohio
                            ," 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 State Archaeological and Historical Quarterly, XLIX, 324,
                            328–29; Pickard and Buley, Midwest Pioneer, 182.
                  
                     26 Pickard and Buley, Midwest Pioneer, 219.
                  
                     27 Adams and Hutter, Mad Forties, 25.
               
                     girdle, wet jackets, and all types of baths. The water jackets
                    and water girdles were perhaps most commonly used and a good hydropathist knew that he was getting
                    results whenever "eruptions, sores and boils appeared beneath the compresses" of
                    his patients. Some followers of the system maintained that to swallow water was harmful; others
                    advocated it. Dr. Joel Shew of 
                        New York
                     used water orally for hiccups, toothache, skin eruptions, palpitation of the heart and
                    fatigue, and recommended the swallowing of ice lumps for a bleeding stomach. But he cautioned
                    against the possible reaction of such a powerful agent as water if mixed with food at mealtime.28
            
            Priessnitz, the originator of the system, did not confine himself to the positive aspects of
                    treatment but added some negative elements. He forbade his patients the use of liquor, tobacco, tea,
                    and coffee, and advised them to eat only very plain foods and to take lots of exercise. His theory
                    was that "it is always the weak and enervated who are the most sensual and
                        debased."29
            
            "Water, according to the hydropathists, was the most formidable as well as the purest of all
                    natural elements. … It was, indeed, next to man, the most favored of all His
                    [God's] creations." It was the panacea for all ills, and it was relatively
                    painless. These claims, advanced at a time when the practices of regular doctors were both painful
                    and uncertain in their results, largely account for the amazing success of the system, both in
                    Europe and in this country.30
            
            In addition to the above-mentioned cults, all of which had at least some claim to respectability,
                    there were many other practitioners and "medicine men" who can be classified as
                    nothing but quacks and frauds. For example, about 1803 a man calling himself "Professor
                    Yernest" appeared at Menessier's Boarding House in 
                        Cincinnati
                     and gave out the following 
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., 41, 35; Pickard and Buley, Midwest Pioneer, 220.
                  
                     29 Adams and Hutter, Mad Forties, 27.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., 34. That the system was a financial success to those who practiced
                            it is indicated by the following announcement which appeared in 1852: "Priessnitz,
                            the noted leader of the system of Hydropathy, died in his residence at Graefenburg on the
                            28th of November. … He was only 52 years of age, and left a fortune supposed to
                            amount to not less than $500,000." Joseph R. Buchanan, "Familiar Table
                            Talk," Journal of Man, III (1852), 32. It is not specifically
                            stated that Priessnitz derived this fortune from the practice of hydropathy, but it would
                            seem to be a plausible explanation for a man who rose from the position of an
                            "untutored, simple-minded peasant" to a position of wealth within a period
                            of twenty-three years.
               
                     advertisement: "Doctor Yernest, a native of 
                        Sweden
                    , the inventor of … Elixir … lived 254 years, his grandfather 130
                    years, his mother 107 years….
            "Dr. Yernest, the eldest in descent of the male line of this venerable family, now in his
                    eighty-fifth year, lives at Mr. Menessier, and has the Elixir of Longevity with him; a fifty-cent
                    bottle of the same being sufficient quantity to insure the continuation of life of the most sickly
                    for at least a century."31 Surprisingly enough, the
                    "Professor" did a good business until an accident revealed that about fifty of his
                    own eighty-five years were being faked.
            Also in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , a Negro built up a lucrative trade by having his patients dip their fingers in a glass
                    of water, whereupon he would study and analyze the water and tell the patient what his trouble was.
                    At about the same time, two phrenologists, temporarily turning their attention from brains to
                    hearts, did a land office business with their "love powder" which the youths of
                    the city bought by the pound in the hope that it would solve their love problems.32
            
            These few brief examples demonstrate the state of mind of the early nineteenth century American. It
                    was a period of uncertainty and of experimentation; a period in which men accepted a new system
                    wholeheartedly or rejected it with scorn. Ever in search of a means of alleviating the illness and
                    suffering which inevitably accompanied the rigors and primitive conditions of pioneer life, they
                    constituted a fertile field for the unscrupulous quack and for the often sincere but disillusioned
                    followers of the various cults. One man's opinion was as good as that of another and the
                    scientific mind of the layman had not sufficiently developed in most cases, to enable him to
                    separate the obviously bad from the possible good. Many patronized the unorthodox practitioners and
                    were satisfied; others dealt with the regular members of the profession and found them lacking. It
                    was thus a natural thing for each to experiment for himself and to defend his own discoveries. If
                    controversy and fraud resulted, they were only two necessary evils among many in the development of
                    a new nation.
            There were other developments in medicine in the 
                        United States
                     during the first half of the preceding century which 
                  
                     31 Quoted from the 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Times in Juettner, Daniel Drake, 92–93.
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., 95. Such events do not seem so amusing when compared with some
                            present-day frauds of similar proportions. It would appear that the gullibility of the
                            general public has not decreased.
               
                     have been left until last in this discussion because they
                    embraced theories and practices which are more directly related to the subject of this study. The
                    three developments were the growth and expansion of phrenology, mesmerism, and eclecticism, the
                    latter being a larger and more nearly orthodox system.
            The science—if it may be called that—of phrenology, as first developed by Gall
                    and Spurzheim, and as practiced for some thirty to forty years, was based on five principles: (1)
                    The brain is the organ of the mind. (2) The mental powers of man can be analyzed into a definite
                    number of independent faculties. (3) These faculties are innate, and each has its seat in a definite
                    region of the surface of the brain. (4) The size of each such region is the measure of the degree to
                    which the faculty seated in it forms a constituent element in the character of the individual. (5)
                    The correspondence between the outer surface of the skull and the contour of the brain surface
                    beneath is close enough to enable one to recognize the relative sizes of the organs by examining the
                    surface of the head. In modern times phrenology has professed to be primarily a system of
                    psychology, but its second and more popular claim, especially during the early years of its
                    practice, was that it afforded a method whereby the disposition and character of the subject might
                    be ascertained.
            Gall was not the first to work out the idea of phrenology; philosophers had had similar ideas from a
                    very early period. But Gall was the first to formulate the ideas into a definite system and to
                    expand that system until it reached the proportions of a science. He eventually determined, at least
                    to his own satisfaction, the functions of twenty-seven organs in the brain; but he made no attempt
                    to determine their specific outlines or to determine absolutely the functions of the whole brain.33
            
            Spurzheim, Gall's most prominent successor in Europe, modified and expanded the Gallian
                    system until it included thirty-five or thirty-seven organs in the brain. He also made an attempt to
                    locate the various organs in a more specific manner by dividing the whole surface of the cranium
                    with geometrical lines, in an effort accurately to point out the boundaries of each organ. In
                    addition, whereas Gall had named the 
                  
                     33 Joseph R. Buchanan, Outlines of Lectures on the
                                Neurological System of Anthropology, as Discovered, Demonstrated and Taught in 1841 and
                                1842 (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1854), 1.
               
                     organs in terms which described the action they controlled,
                    Spurzheim tabbed them with philosophical terms, in an effort to explain the essential nature of
                    each. For instance, Gall spoke of the organ of "attachment and friendship" but
                    Spurzheim called it "adhesiveness."34
            
            The work of Spurzheim superseded that of Gall in popular estimation; and the system of phrenology
                    taught in Europe and in America, prior to 1842, was substantially that of the former. But, since
                    Spurzheim originally got his ideas from the teachings of Gall, the latter has been called the
                    founder of phrenology and Spurzheim its propagator. Gall was "the great architect who
                    showed us where to build—who dug the foundation with his own hands, and commenced the
                        walls."35 Spurzheim continued the work on those walls, and, in
                    1832, brought them to America, where other workmen eagerly seized upon them, and where they
                    eventually fell into the hands of an overly ambitious master craftsman who shaped them into
                    something bearing little resemblance to the original foundation.
            The death of Spurzheim on November 10, 1832, produced a "deep sensation" in 
                        Boston
                    . "A public funeral was awarded to his remains, and a handsome monument was
                    erected to his memory." And, lest anyone be denied an opportunity to gain inspiration from
                    the great phrenologist, a group of loyal 
                        Harvard
                     professors removed his brain and put it on exhibition. After an extended and
                    enthusiastically received tour of the eastern cities and schools, the pickled phrenological specimen
                    was offered to Europe—for a price, of course—but there were no takers.36
            
            But if European enthusiasm for phrenology was dead in 1832, it was still in its infancy in America.
                    Countless men and women flocked to its banner, embraced it, and propagated it. Horace Mann called it
                    "the truest handmaiden of Christianity," while no less a personage than Henry Ward
                    Beecher, who had at first opposed the doctrine, became one of its most ardent defenders after one of
                    the phrenologists found that Beecher's "bumps of Power of Thought, Eloquence,
                    Splendor 
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., 1–2. Buchanan's introductory chapter,
                            "A Review of Gallian Phrenology," is the basis of most of this discussion.
                  
                     35 Joseph R. Buchanan, "Gallian Phrenology—and the
                            Neurological System," Buchanan's Journal of Man, II
                            (1850), 3.
                  
                     36 Combe, Notes on the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , I, 60–61; Adams and Hutter, Mad Forties,
                            61. This story may or may not be true; the writer has been unable to verify it.
               
                     of Diction, and Benevolence" were extremely impressive
                    in their proportions.37
            
            It was through the influence of Beecher that the two brothers, O. S. and L. N. Fowler, who have been
                    credited with convincing the nation of the scientific accuracy of phrenology, became addicted to the
                    system. After hearing a debate in which Beecher made his most famous defense of phrenology, the
                    Fowler boys decided to make a career of it. For publicity they examined the Siamese Twins, lately
                    imported by P. T. Barnum. They then sought out Nicholas Biddle, whose phrenological fame had been
                    established in 1806 when he had allowed a cast to be made of his head by none other than Francis
                    Gall; they invaded the theater by charting the cranium of Junius Brutus Booth, and they sought to
                    determine the ability of those who ran the nation by examining Representative Henry Wise of 
                        Virginia
                    .
            Eventually they became so popular that they were allowed to examine the head of President Andrew
                    Jackson, and found it to be "the largest… and the most splendidly equipped they
                    had ever encountered." Others who came to them included Henry Clay, John C. Calhoun, and
                    Daniel Webster; and it so happened that the organs of the nation's great men coincided
                    perfectly with what was known of their characters. Martin Van Buren, the Democratic presidential
                    nominee in 1836, was found to be of a nature to avoid work, but the Fowlers wisely kept this fact a
                    secret until after the election, thus, as nearly as possible, keeping phrenology on a nonpartisan
                        basis.38
            
            In addition to their barnstorming tactics, the Fowler brothers founded The American
                        Phrenological Journal,39 which, together with their practical
                    application of phrenology —professionally examining heads and giving
                    charts—was a major factor in spreading the popularity of the system.
            In 1838, American phrenologists received another shot in the arm when George Combe,
                    Spurzheim's former pupil and his most ardent disciple in Europe, came to this country for
                    a three-year stay. From October, 1838, through February, 1839, he gave a series of sixteen lectures
                    in each of three eastern cities!—
                  Boston,
                            New York
               , and 
                        Philadelphia
                    . The average attendance 
                  
                     37 Adams and Hutter, Mad Forties, 60; Pickard and
                            Buley, Midwest Pioneer, 225.
                  
                     38 Adams and Hutter, Mad Forties, 70–78.
                  
                     39 Joseph R. Buchanan, "Familiar Table Talk," Buchanan's Journal of Man, I, 287.
               
                     at these lectures, including regular subscribers, visitors, and
                    those holding complimentary tickets, was 395,40 a fair indication of the
                    popularity of phrenology in the 
                        United States
                     at that time.
            On October 24, 1838, Combe noted that: "There are great numbers of 'practical
                    phrenologists' in the 
                        United States
                    , and there are several now in 
                        Boston
                    , men who examine heads and predicate characters for fees, and who are pretty
                    extensively consulted. This practice, which in the eyes of the uninitiated, resembles palmistry, and
                    fortune-telling, is said to have created a strong feeling of disgust against Phrenology itself, in
                    the minds of men of science and education. This is unquestionably an evil; but on the other hand I
                    have found here a phalanx of very superior persons, belonging, most of them, to the learned
                    professions, who are excellent phrenologists."41 At another time he
                    recorded that in 
                        Boston
                     lectures on phrenology were delivered by someone almost every evening and were
                    "attended by audiences numbering from five to fifteen hundred persons of both sexes; but
                    entertainment and excitement, as much as instruction, are the objects of these discourses.
                    … The most distinguished divines, senators, physicians, lawyers, and merchants, appear
                    before the people as lecturers. Among these, the Rev. Dr. W. E. Channing and Mr. John Quincy
                    Adams,… may be found."42
            
            There is strong evidence that phrenology had been introduced to the West prior to the time of
                    Spurzheim's appearance in the East. Dr. Charles Caldwell, a member of the expanding
                    Medical Department of Transylvania University, was sent to 
                        Paris
                    , about 1820, to buy books and equipment for the department; and it is said that he
                    adopted the science while in Europe and brought it back with him. There seems to be no evidence to
                    refute this statement, and it is known that in later years Dr. Caldwell was a staunch supporter of
                        phrenology.43 At any rate, the doctrine became very popular in the West and
                    flourished 
                  
                     40 Combe, Notes on the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , I, 359, 361, 368.
                  
                     41
                     Ibid., I, 84.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., 81. Combe received many invitations to lecture in cities and towns
                            other than those mentioned; but, despite the fact that the offer usually was for twenty-five
                            dollars per lecture, he declined because the progress of phrenology had been "much
                            impeded by its teachers giving only brief and unsatisfactory expositions of its
                            doctrines." Ibid.
                  
                     43 Pickard and Buley, Midwest Pioneer, 223; Joseph
                            R. Buchanan, Manual of Psychometry: The Dawn of a New Civilization (
                                Boston
                            , 1885), 82–83.
               
                     for more than twenty years. To get one's head
                    examined became the thing to do, and the faith that people put in it, as well as the way they
                    flocked to its practitioners, is suggestive of the present-day enthusiasm for psychiatry.
            Mesmerism, popularly known as animal magnetism, employed the power of suggestion and stimulated the
                    development of hypnosis, both of which play a part in modern medicine. Originating in 
                        Vienna
                     about 1775, the science adopted the name of its founder, Anton Mesmer; and after going
                    the rounds of Europe for several years it came to the 
                        United States
                     in installments during the 1830's, where it gained wide popularity and soon
                    was competing with phrenology for top honors.44
            
            Charles Poyen, a Frenchman, became America's most ardent advocate of mesmerism about 1836.
                    His literary ambitions had led him to write "A Philosophical and Historical Essay on
                    Slavery," but when he presented the essay to an eastern publisher the latter viewed it with
                    disfavor and suggested that Poyen's future fame might more definitely be established if
                    he could stir up as much excitement in America over animal magnetism as Spurzheim had created over
                    phrenology. Apparently Poyen was a venturesome soul for he took the jesting publisher at his word
                    and began to look around for a suitable subject for demonstrations. He selected a Miss Gleason, a
                    consumptive victim of a New 
                        England
                     carpet factory, and took her on a tour of New 
                        England
                    , where he demonstrated his powers by "magnetizing" Miss Gleason by a
                    series of manipulations over her body with his hands.45
            
            The tour was proving to be rather successful when suddenly Colonel William Lette Stone, a journalist,
                    put a crimp in the campaign by discovering and publishing "The Report of Doctor Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                     and the Other Commissioners Charged by the King of 
                        France
                     with the Examination of the Animal Magnetism." This document, first recorded
                    in 1779, revealed that Mesmer and his followers in 
                        Paris
                     had not always conducted their experiments in a manner conducive to the improvement of
                    the city's morals. They were said to have had sumptuous houses in 
                        Paris
                     where men and women met together; and where the women, after having been
                    "magnetized" almost to the point of insensibility, were carried off by 
                  
                     44 Pickard and Buley, Midwest Pioneer, 227.
                  
                     45 Adams and Hutter, Mad Forties, 89–90,
                            91–93.
               
                     the men to elaborate bedrooms, appropriately called
                    "Apartments of the Crises."46
            
            Dr. James Esdaile, who became addicted to mesmerism and practiced the art while in 
                        India
                    , said that the report of the French Commission was justified because the evidence
                    presented in favor of mesmerism was so badly handled as to hide the simplicity of the science
                    "under a load of complicated machinery and various kinds of mummer."47 But whether justified or not, the report caused a furor among the straight-laced New
                    Englanders and Poyen's venture suffered accordingly.
            The chief claim of mesmerism to scientific fame was that it offered possibilities, through its appeal
                    to faith and imagination, of successfully treating disease, and, through its hypnotic powers, as a
                    means of performing painless surgery. Dr. Esdaile used it for the latter purpose on an Indian hog
                    dealer and reported that after about one hour of passing his hands over the patient's
                    face he was mesmerized and became insensible to all pain. In this condition the man underwent
                    surgery on three different occasions and each time testified that he felt no pain whatsoever.48
            
            There were, however, limitations to what mesmerism could do for medical science, for not everyone was
                    responsive to its influence. An extremely sensitive person might be made insensible to pain within a
                    few minutes, but in general it took an hour or two of repeated efforts, and in some cases the
                    treatment completely failed. Dr. Esdaile believed that a person of "a high organization, in
                    whom the nervous and circulating systems were equally active, with a determined will, a resolution
                    to do the thing if possible, and a love of truth and humanity"49 was
                    most likely to reap the benefits of mesmerism.
            But mesmerism gained more fame and reaped greater profits from another group of practitioners who
                    went about the country demonstrating its unique possibilities merely as a means of entertainment.
                    There were many of these opportunists in the 1830's and 1840's and they
                    performed throughout the country before large audiences, who were willing to pay 
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., 97–101.
                  
                     47 James Esdaile, "Mesmerism in 
                                India
                            ," Buchanan's Journal of Man, I, 264.
                  
                     48
                     Ibid., 302ff.
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., 256.
               
                     well for what they saw.50 The mesmerizers
                    used various methods, but all of them depended upon the powers of hypnotism for gaining control of
                    their subjects, usually volunteers from the audience; and they kept their patrons in suspense and
                    awe with the strange and amusing things which the subjects would do at their command. A Mr. Keely,
                    who operated in the mid-western states, passed out silver coins to his audience and had them gaze
                    upon the coins for fifteen or twenty minutes, by which time several would be sufficiently somnolent
                    to be easily controlled. Keely then would exhibit his power over his subjects by giving commands
                    "which they are compelled to obey, and [by] making assertions which they are compelled to
                        believe."51
            
            Eclecticism, the most important native American medical cult, and the system which enjoyed the widest
                    popularity and the longest life of all the irregular systems, had its birth during the
                    1820's. It was an outgrowth of "the active protest against the polypharmacy and
                    heroic drug methods of a hundred years ago";52 but it was sufficiently
                    orthodox to gain the support of several members of the regular medical profession. Literally
                    speaking, the term "eclectic" means the practice of exercising choice among a
                    number of doctrines or systems. As applied by the eclectic school of medicine, it denoted the
                    selecting and the use of the most successful methods of medical practice to be found, whether they
                    came from the regular members of the profession or from one of the less reputable cults. Constantine
                    Samuel Rafinesque defined eclectics as "those who subject and adopt in practice whatever is
                    found beneficial, and who change their prescriptions according to emergencies, circumstances and
                    acquired knowledge."53
            
            Dr. Wooster Beach, the founder of eclecticism, was born at Trumbull, 
                        Connecticut
                    , in 1794. Early in life he began the study of medicine and theology and rapidly
                    developed a strong 
                  
                     50 It is not surprising that such operators performed before large and
                            enthusiastic audiences, for even today a hypnotist can always expect a reasonably good gate
                            receipt for his efforts.
                  
                     51 Buchanan, "Familiar Table Talk," Buchanan's Journal of Man, I, 239.
                  
                     52 Juettner, Daniel Drake, 357.
                  
                     53 Wilder, History of Medicine, 427. Though Wilder
                            credits Rafinesque with being the first to use the term "eclectic" to
                            designate a school or class of practitioners, it was first applied to Dr. Beach by a friend
                            to whom he was expounding his theory of combining the best features of the "ideas
                            of Indian doctors, female practitioners, and Botanies, as well as those of the
                            regulars." Pickard and Buley, Midwest Pioneer, 189.
               
                     antipathy to the current medical practices. His soul
                    "was filled with indignation at these instruments of cruelty and misery, administered under
                    the specious pretext of removing disease." From an elderly man in 
                        New Jersey
                    , who at first was reluctant to share his knowledge, Beach learned the rudiments of
                    botanical medicine. He then took a medical degree in 
                        New York
                    , in order to make his practice legal, and began practicing in 
                        New York
                     about 1825.54
            
            For a while Beach was a follower of the Thomsonian system of botanic medicine, but in 1827 he and
                    Thomson split over the question of establishing schools for the training of botanic doctors, and as
                    a result of this difference Beach established the "
                        United States
                     Infirmary" in 
                        New York
                     that same year. In 1829 it became the "Reformed Medical Academy" and
                    in 1830 was rechristened the "Reformed Medical College of the City of 
                        New York
                    ," which flourished until 1838.55
            
            The botanic practices of the eclectics were in harmony with the pioneer mind, but some of the crude
                    and bulky vegetable remedies employed by them were so repulsive to the patient that the popularity
                    of the system was somewhat tempered until later experiments and discoveries resulted in the
                    extractive process developed by William S. Merrell of 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1847. Then followed the development of a series of fluid medicines "made by
                    dilutions of tinctures of vegetable substances and alcohol … with dilutions of simple
                    syrups." With these developments eclecticism became so popular that Dr. John Forbes could
                    say with assurances of support that the "Hygienic—the Eclectic—the
                    Hippocratic—the Rational System of treating disease is the only one that can be justified
                    and vindicated."56
            
            Soon after 1829, Beach, Thomas V. Morrow of Fairview, 
                        Kentucky
                    , and others formed the "Reformed Medical Society of the 
                        United States
                    ," which seems to have been the first of its type in the country. The object of
                    this society was the study and practice of rational drug methods, and its members were all regular
                    physicians. They principally opposed the abuse of the lancet and the indiscriminate employment of
                    large doses of calomel.57
            
            
               
                  54 Harvey W. Felter, History of the Eclectic Medical
                            Institute, 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , 1845–1902 (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1902), 81–82.
               
                  55
                  Ibid., 6.
               
                  56
                        Ibid., 190; Wilder, History of Medicine, 336.
               
                  57 Juettner, Daniel Drake, 357. Morrow was born in the
                        same house which four years later became the birthplace of Jefferson Davis.
            
            
            At a meeting of this society at 
                        New York
                     in 1830, it was resolved that it would be "expedient to establish an
                    additional school in some town on the 
                        Ohio
                     River … in order that the people of the West may avail themselves of the
                    advantages resulting from a scientific knowledge of Botanic Medicine."58 In addition to the motive mentioned in the resolution there was also the incentive that
                    Beach's 
                        New York
                     school lacked the legal sanction of a legislative charter and was ever in danger of
                    being forced to close.
            Dr. John J. Steele was delegated to go into the 
                        Ohio
                     region the following year to select a suitable site for the new school; but in the
                    meantime Beach issued a circular which was sent to various points in the West and South "to
                    elicit such information as would enable him to make a judicious selection in
                    locating" the school. One of these circulars fell into the hands of Colonel James
                    Kilbourne, who, under the auspices of the Scioto Land Company, had been the founder of Worthington, 
                        Ohio
                    . Kilbourne saw a chance to revive Worthington College, which had seen more prosperous
                    days, and upon his request the trustees of the college sent an invitation to Dr. Beach, offering him
                    the use of their charter and building for his proposed medical school. Dr. Steele was then sent to
                    Worthington to see that the location was suitable, and in December, 1830, instruction began in the
                    "Reformed Medical College of 
                        Ohio
                    ," better known as the "Medical Department of Worthington
                        College."59
            
            The new school opened under the presidency of Dr. Steele, but he was soon succeeded by Dr. Morrow,
                    under whose leadership the enrollment advanced from seven or eight in 1831 to forty in 1836. The
                    institution continued to prosper and by 1839 the curriculum included anatomy and physiology,
                    chemistry and medical jurisprudence, theory and practice of medicine and midwifery, surgery and
                    diseases of women and children, botany, materia medica, and pharmacology.60
            
            But in 1839 trouble began. The enrollment had begun to decline and the adoption of new regulations
                    failed to improve the situation. In addition there was dissension among some of the faculty members,
                    and the school was having financial troubles. When the state refused financial aid, as did the
                    public when popular subscription was resorted to, it became 
                  
                     58 Felter, History of the Eclectic Institute, 7, 9.
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., 9, 10.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., 11; Pickard and Buley, Midwest Pioneer,
                        192.
               
                     apparent that Worthington was too small to support such a
                    school.
            The final disruption of the institution came as a result of the graverobbing tactics of its students
                    in their search for cadavers for the dissecting room.61 Late in 1839, after
                    several bodies had been illegally removed from their final resting places, a mob of angry citizens
                    gathered at the school and after a brief search found at least one body and the remains of others.
                    "Their fury now knew no bounds; a pitched battle was fairly averted in 
                        Windsor
                     Street, and Dr. Morrow and others defended the college with rifle in hand. It is said
                    that battering-rams were erected for the demolition of the building."62
                    But someone gave the key to the mob, and Dr. Morrow, now realizing that resistance was useless,
                    agreed to leave town.
            From Worthington, Dr. Morrow moved to 
                        Cincinnati
                     where he established (1842–1843) the "Reformed Medical School of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    ," the immediate predecessor of the Eclectic Medical Institute. By the end of
                    1844 the faculty was four or five strong and the curriculum was about the same as that of the former
                    Worthington school. The program consisted of four to six lectures per day through a four-month
                    session, for which the students paid fifty-five dollars, plus small fees for certain special
                        services.63
            
            By 1845 the enrollment of this new school had grown to thirty and in that year eleven hundred
                    citizens of 
                        Cincinnati
                     petitioned the state legislature of 
                        Ohio
                     to grant a charter to Morrow and his associates. As a result of this action, the
                    legislature, on March 10, 1845, passed a bill incorporating the school under the name of the
                    "Eclectic Medical Institute of 
                        Cincinnati
                    ." The charter thus issued provided for: (1) a 
                  
                     61 Grave robbers, popularly known as
                            "resurrectionists," were plentiful in those days, as it was about the only
                            way students of anatomy had of acquiring cadavers. Joseph Nash McDowell, brother-in-law of
                            Daniel Drake, once took the body of a young girl from its grave, and soon after heard rumors
                            that friends of the girl were coming for the body. McDowell went to his laboratory that
                            night to hide the body and when he was ready to leave found that the building was surrounded
                            by men. He lay down on a table and covered himself with a sheet, whereupon the men entered
                            the room and proceeded to examine all of the bodies. One fellow, when he came to McDowell,
                            said, "Here is a fellow who died in his boots; I guess he is a fresh one."
                            Juettner, Daniel Drake, 394. Resurrectionists passed into history abruptly
                            about 1880 because of legislation which followed the discovery of the body of John Scott
                            Harrison, son of William Henry Harrison and father of Benjamin Harrison, in the Medical
                            College of 
                                Ohio
                             in 1878. Ibid., 393, 397.
                  
                     62 Felter, History of the Eclectic Institute,
                            16–17.
                  
                     63
                            Ibid., 19.
               
                     capital stock not to exceed twenty thousand dollars, divided
                    into twenty-dollar shares; (2) a board of trustees of eleven to fifteen members, chosen yearly by
                    the stockholders, each stockholder to have one vote for each five shares thereafter; and (3)
                    authorized the school to issue the degree of Doctor of Medicine to students who met certain
                    specified requirements.64
            
            By the end of 1846 the school had met the ten thousand-dollar property requirement, which was also
                    included in the charter, by moving into a newly erected building at the corner of Court and Plum
                    streets. The school was now well launched and attracted large classes to its halls. Steps were taken
                    to get for its students the privilege of attending the Commercial Hospital of the city, and in 1846
                    a clinic was established for purposes of practical instruction.
            The newly created institution met bitter opposition from the regular doctors, one of them going so
                    far as to say that medical science was not "susceptible of further improvement or
                    reform." Felter has described the history of the Institute as the history of "the
                    contest for freedom in medical thought and teaching," and as "the history of the
                    Godmother of American medicine," and declared that "few institutions can boast of
                    so many graduates in all States of the Union, and none can point with greater
                    pride to her alumni."65
            
            Thus, in 1840 the American medical profession was badly muddled. The regular members of the
                    profession continued to practice crude and outmoded methods. While on the other hand numerous
                    unorthodox groups, ranging from a few sincerely inspired reformers to many unscrupulous quacks, had
                    crowded into the field. The methods of the new groups, though unique, were generally less effective
                    than the orthodox practices, and many of them were positively harmful. There was, indeed, an earnest
                    need for enlightened reform; the field was wide open for anyone who had the correct treatment for
                    the malady and who had the aggressiveness to administer it.
            
               
                  64
                        Ibid., 20–22. The capital stock was later increased to sixty
                        thousand dollars. Ibid., 24.
               
                  65
                        Ibid., 5; Pickard and Buley, Midwest Pioneer, 192.
            
         
         
         
            Hoosiers and the Western Program, 1844–1848
            
                    Roger H. Van Bolt*
               
                
            The western program of political action, thoroughly grounded in economic need, was repeatedly
                    rejected by the Polk administration. There had been a traditional support of western interests by
                    both parties for over a decade, but in many respects this support had been one of lip service and of
                    intermittent character. In the period of 1844–1845, however, changes were taking place in
                    the parties themselves and also in government policies, resulting in a growing suspicion in the
                    Northwest that sectional needs were not being met with adequate measures to alleviate the stress and
                    strain. Even the parties themselves were becoming distrustful. It is interesting to note that James
                    K. Polk, a political dark horse, had become president because of the failure to resolve the
                    cleavages of the faction.1
            
            Many factors contributed to Indiana's political action during this period. The
                    Hoosiers' interests in the western program had certain elements in common with their
                    neighbors; yet Indiana possessed no spokesmen for its needs with the enthusiasm of Jacob Brinkerhoff
                    and Joshua Giddings of 
                        Ohio
                    , or John Wentworth of 
                        Illinois
                    . Unlike 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    , Indiana's wool and lead interests were not strong enough to be represented
                    in the national halls. Neither was its lake trade as important as it was to the adjoining states. 
                        Michigan
                     City was an enterprising center for the grain growers of northern Indiana, but it was
                    not a 
                        Chicago
                     or a 
                        Cleveland
                     in importance for Indiana's trade was not concentrated in the direction of
                    the lake. The peculiar boundaries of the state, determined in part by the sweeping northward bend of
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     River, gave central Indiana easy access to river trade, and the 
                        Wabash
                     River, with its parallel canal opened from 
                        Toledo
                     to 
                        Lafayette
                     by 1843, provided further outlets to ports outside the state. In addition, there was
                    the railroad from 
                        Madison
                     that was to reach the rich farm lands around 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the summer 
                  
                     * Roger H. Van Bolt is Historical Research Specialist, Edison
                            Institute, 
                                Dearborn
                            , 
                                Michigan
                            . This article is a chapter of his Ph.D. dissertation at the University of 
                                Chicago
                            , 1950, written under the direction of Avery O. Craven.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Madison
                             Kuhn, "Economic Issues and the Rise of the Republican Party in the
                            Northwest" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, The University of 
                                Chicago
                            , 1940), 35ff discussed this growing distrust and the elements in the
                            Northwestern Revolt of 1846.
               
                     of 1847. Economically, the state was rebounding from the
                    financial doldrums of the early part of the decade. The state debt had been adjusted, and the work
                    on the canals and railroads had been resumed. The character of the Indiana politician also played a
                    part in determining the actions of the state. Unlike the other states of the Northwest, the men who
                    were leaders in Indiana were not products of large settlements of New Englanders; they were
                    representative of the conglomerate nature of the Indiana population. Here again, it seems, that out
                    of diversity, there was much more unity. When Indiana's political behavior during the
                    Polk administration is viewed in the light of its comparative position with respect to its
                    neighbors, the treatment of the political questions of the tariff, internal improvements, and land
                    become more understandable.
            Starting in 1843, Indiana Democrats had attempted to indoctrinate their constituents with the evils
                    of the protective tariff. Governor James Whitcomb, who had achieved political success through his
                    widely distributed pamphlet, "Facts for the People," in which he sought to point
                    out to the farmers of the state the evils of protection, had challenged an almost hitherto
                    impregnable fortress. Whitcomb had made an effort in his pamphlet to show a connection between the
                    southern markets of the Indiana farmer and the ruinous tariff which was hampering the southern
                    planter. Written in simple language and using familiar hypothetical examples such as farmers selling
                    potatoes to townspeople, the governor had created alarm among the Whiggery of Indiana. Senator
                    Oliver H. Smith in an answer to this political textbook had claimed that: "This is the
                    first time, it is believed, in the history of Indiana, that a political party has raised aloft, and
                    flung to the breeze a flag inscribed with the Free Trade doctrines preached by Great Britain and 
                        South Carolina
                    ."2 Whitcomb had appealed to the majority group of the
                    state, the numerous and underpaid farmer.
            The growth of free trade feeling in the state had reached strong proportions by the time the proposed
                    Walker Tariff was placed before Congress. The Democracy had rejoiced 
                  
                     2 Oliver H. Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1858), 298; William W. Woollen, Biographical and Historical
                                Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883), 85–88, Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana
                            (2d ed.; 2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1918), I, 532. As late as 1882, Whitcomb's pamphlet was widely
                            distributed in the tariff campaigns.
               
                     over the repeal of the Corn Laws and the Sentinel declared: "Give us now but a just modification of our own tariff, and a long
                    vista of prosperity opens to our view…. To the people of Indiana in particular, this
                    event is of especial interest. No state in the Union is more interested in the success of free
                    trade, for by that alone can our people hope for general prosperity."3
                    But at the same time, Indiana's representatives had put a price on its advocacy of a
                    lower tariff. First, Edward A. Hannegan had expressed his views to Duff Green, and then John Pettit
                    in the House had also warned the South that it could not get the tariff until its support was given
                    to river and harbor improvements in the Northwest.4 Although professing to their
                    constituents back home great interest in the tariff, other sectional demands also had to be met. The
                    question of the tariff was not so much a bargain in the sense of implying a sacrifice as it was a
                    holding out to attain other sectional demands.
            While Indiana's representatives were seemingly prepared to accede to the party pledges of
                    1844, some northwestern Democrats were turning away from the platform of the party. It was to round
                    up these strays from party solidarity that Indiana's representatives entered the tariff
                    debates.
            Robert Dale Owen was an ardent advocate of tariff reform and took up the question as one of western
                    as well as southern primacy. To him, there were certain progressive changes that must go on in
                    society and government. Protection could not be perpetuated in a republican society, but for the
                    sake of peace he was willing to abandon much which on the soundest principles of equity were just
                    and right. In that spirit, he urged the manufacturing states to come half way to meet the West and
                    the South.5
            
            The representatives of special interests who were unwilling to consent to such a course, however,
                    chose to air their objections to the administration's policy. The party strife that
                    resulted prompted William W. Wick to call upon these discordant groups to mend their ways if they
                    were to remain Democrats, and he specifically accused John W. Tibbatts of 
                        Kentucky
                    , who sought to protect wool and hemp, of taxing the many to benefit the few. 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , he declared, "had gone 
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana State Sentinel, June 27, 1846.
                  
                     4
                            Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 1 Sess., 462.
                  
                     5
                     Ibid., 1005–6.
               
                     a whoring after false gods. … Her Democracy must
                    redeem itself from idolatry, and divorce itself from an adulterous connexion with the lords of the
                    furnace and the rolling mill, and look to the tillers of the soil for voices and votes, or she will
                    soon cease to be the keystone of the Democratic arch."6 The few
                    Democrats from 
                        New York
                     who strung along with the opposition were accused of seeking clerkships which had been
                    refused by the administration. The day before Wick spoke, Brinkerhoff of 
                        Ohio
                     had attacked the provisions placing a heavy tax on coffee and tea; this Wick claimed
                    was an attempt of the Ohioan to become a special defender of the old ladies' tea and
                    coffee pots. Brinkerhoff's state had fared badly at the hands of Polk when the federal
                    patronage was distributed to the faithful of the party, and Wick referred to this by sarcastically
                    bringing out in his speech the fact that the 
                        Ohio
                     Democratic electoral vote in 1844 had failed to appear. He further reminded Brinkerhoff
                    of his opposition to the annexation of 
                        Texas
                    . Then Wick proceeded to upbraid those Democrats who were trying to bully the
                    administration for personal favor, and those who were decrying the 
                        Oregon
                     settlement in order to create further dissatisfaction in the party. Finally, the
                    Indiana Democrat attacked those who were trying to defeat the proposed tariff by whispering into the
                    ears of the northwestern leaders that it was a southern bill. Wick, like Owen, claimed it was a
                    western measure.7
            
            The day after Wick's speech, Joseph K. McDowell of 
                        Ohio
                     attempted to explain Wick's outburst to the House by saying Wick was trying
                    to use others in order to express his "admiration for the Administration and advocate its
                        principles."8
            
            There were no more outpourings on the subject of the tariff from the Indiana Democrats in the House,
                    and when the vote was taken, their support, along with that of the rest of the Northwest, was
                    unanimous. Several explanations were offered for this solid support, some saying that the amendments
                    fixing higher schedules for wool and flaxseed had made the bill acceptable, others saying they felt
                    that sufficient concessions had been forced from the South.9
            
            In the Senate, the course of Hannegan and Bright was for 
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., Appendix, 1041.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 1041–43.
                  
                     8
                            Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 1 Sess., 1046–47.
                  
                     9 Kuhn, "Economic Issues and the Rise of the Republican Party
                            in the Northwest," 50.
               
                     the most part one of inactivity. The former as senior senator
                    from Indiana accepted the bill in principle and found it needless from his point of view to continue
                    the discussion of it. He told the Senate that enough had been spoken in every town, village, and
                    hamlet on this subject, but that he would listen with pleasure to the speeches of the gentlemen of
                    that body who felt called upon to deliver them for the benefit of the other senators or the
                    constituents back home.10
            
            Hannegan, no longer an enthusiastic supporter of the issues of 1844, said he would vote according to
                    his principles, but the fiery oratory that he had lent to the cause of manifest destiny no longer
                    spurred the Democracy on.
            The tariff issue in Indiana did not blow up a political storm within the Democratic party, and there
                    was no apparent sign of revolt in its congressional delegation. Wick's attack of the
                    discordant elements in the other states of the Northwest that were attempting to satisfy local
                    interests, apparently met with the approval of his Democratic colleagues, for they did not trouble
                    themselves to dissent.
            The appeal of Whitcomb to the common folk of the state in terms that were comprehendible to them had
                    probably prepared the way for this apathy, but coupled with this was the fact that Hoosiers had
                    little to protect—special interests had not developed in Indiana. Governor Whitcomb
                    congratulated the party on its success with the tariff issue, declaring in his address to the
                    legislature that the tariff revision had been made in accordance with the spirit of the age.11
            
            The Whigs, who were quick to take up the issue, appointed a special committee to draft a reply to the
                    governor's message, and in his report, George B. Thompson harangued the governor for his
                    views on the tariff. This reply, which leaned upon many of the stereotyped phrases of the Whigs, was
                    used in their defense of protection. It is interesting to note that the Whigs of Indiana sought to
                    array Sir Robert Peel, James K. Polk, and the governor of Indiana in the same school. Referring to
                    the so-called bargains of the Democracy, Thompson wrote: "Well might the British Parliament
                    bestow upon the report of Secretary Walker an honor never before conferred 
                  
                     10
                            Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 1 Sess., 1056.
                  
                     11 "Governor's Message Delivered to the General
                            Assembly of the State of Indiana, December 8, 1846," Indiana
                                Documentary Journal, 1846, p. 84: "Report of Mr. George Burton Thompson,
                            of Perry, … January 6, 1847," ibid.,
                            193–200.
               
                     upon an American State paper, to direct it to be printed at the
                    expense of the British nation. Well may they afford to give 
                        Oregon
                    , and tacitly submit to our conquering and annexing province after province of 
                        Mexico
                    ."12 The "Southern Administration," he
                    declared, with the aid of Indiana Democrats, was thus systematically ruining the nation through its
                    party schemes. Whitcomb, who had apparently aroused the members of the legislature, did not mention
                    the tariff in his inaugural address to the people; he concentrated on the matter of relieving the
                    oppressing state debt.
            The South and the Indiana Democrats at least seemed to be treading on common ground on the tariff.
                    Unfortunately, on the other issues of conflict, the dilemma was not so easily resolved. The free
                    movement of agricultural products required rivers and harbors as well as favorable tariffs. It was
                    at this point that mutual interest ceased to be a binding force drawing the West and the South
                    together.
            Polk's veto of the Eivers and Harbors Bill in August of 1846 was a bitter blow to the
                    Northwest. It had been disappointed before, but since the days of the campaign of 1844 there had
                    been the feeling that the South and West could ameliorate sectional differences of opinion. The 
                        Memphis
                     Convention in 1845 had led the Southern Democrats to a rather strange interpretation of
                    the Constitution, and the expectation of lower hurdles in the House and Senate had stimulated in the
                    Northwest a greater hope of settlement.
            Indiana had its interest in internal improvements as did the rest of the section, even though its
                    geography made her self-development less urgent. The federal government had spent enough funds in
                    Indiana to begin several projects; the problem now was to complete them. The river interests were
                    concerned in improving the 
                        Ohio
                     River, while central Indiana was determined that the National Road be completed across
                    the state. When John Tyler in 1845 had vetoed the Harbor Bill with its attached appropriation for
                    the road, the Sentinel had reacted bitterly.13
                    
                        Michigan
                     City, in the northern part of 
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 195.
                  
                     13 "We must get up a small chunk of a war, when the
                            government will desire to transport western soldiers and munitions of war over roads three
                            feet deep with mud. … Money enough is every year fooled away on West Point
                            Academy to finish the road without difficulty. But that is a mill for the manufacture of
                            Aristocrats and must be sustained, whether we have a military road or not." 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana State Sentinel, March 13, 1845.
               
                     the state, was becoming more and more important as an outlet
                    for Indiana's surplus commodities and as a shelter during the lake shipping season, and
                    even though appropriations had been granted to construct a breakwater and $135,733.00 had been
                    spent, the work was not complete, and the timbers of the project rotted away while politicians
                    debated the constitutionality of further expenditures. The interest of the army engineers in 
                        Michigan
                     City centered more on its location than on its commercial possibilities, for it was a
                    last resort during storms for ships to seek a refuge on the eastern shores of the lake. Indiana,
                    however, stressing its value as a shipping point, had claimed as early as 1842 in the resolutions of
                    the General Assembly that there were over sixty thousand dollars of exports each year through this
                    lake port, in spite of the fact that prior to improvement, a rowboat often could not get into the
                    sand-filled harbor.14
            
            The southern reluctance to give its legislative support in the improvement of western rivers and
                    harbors nurtured in the Northwest continued distrust of its neighbors. The bill of 1846 was of large
                    proportions, filled with provisions that were targets for the cries of porkbarrel legislation.
                    Pettit of Indiana was the only congressman from that state who spoke on the subject of rivers and
                    harbors legislation, and it was he who made the threat to the South that the tariff would not be
                    supported by the Northwest unless appropriations were made for internal improvements. The 
                        Lafayette
                     politician chided R. Barnwell Rhett of 
                        South Carolina
                     for attacking the western program at the same time when he was advancing the cause of 
                        Charleston
                     harbor improvements.15
            
            The votes on individual provisions of the bill did not bring forth any clear pattern of legislative
                    behavior. All of Indiana's congressmen voted for the improvement of the harbor at 
                        Michigan
                     City, though one congressman who had voted in favor of the previous provisions, saw fit
                    to vote against the proposal to improve the St. Clair flats. All but one Democrat supported the
                    final bill.16
            
            
               
                  14 "Resolutions of the General Assembly of Indiana, February 14,
                        1842," in Senate Documents, 27 Cong., 2 Sess., No. 87 (serial no.
                        402), 1; "Report of Bureau of Topographical Engineers, January 12, 1848, Commerce of
                        the Lakes and Western Rivers," in House Executive Documents, 30
                        Cong., 1 Sess., No. 19 (serial no. 516), 43.
               
                  15
                        Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 1 Sess., 462.
               
                  16
                        Ibid., 375, 524, 525, 527, 529, 530.
            
            
            It is not surprising, then, that the veto message of President Polk generated a storm of protest in
                    the Northwest. Owen and Wick, however, declined to override the veto; in fact, the 
                        New Harmony
                     Democrat had voted against the bill just as he had against all others based on a strict
                    constructionist stand. When John Wentworth and Wick were debating on the floor of the House some
                    months later, the 
                        Chicago
                     Democrat reminded Wick of this failure to support the interests of the Northwest.
                    Lumping together the political misdoings of Wick as he saw them, Wentworth accused Wick of back
                    tracking to the administration point of view after voting for the Harbor Bill. Furthermore, he said,
                    Wick had changed his position on 
                        Oregon
                     and left the 54" 40' camp to support the administration compromise.
                    He had supported the tea and coffee provisions of the tariff and changed his stand on rivers and
                    harbors. Wentworth, who was now convinced that the southern leaders were attempting to rule the
                    nation in order to maintain their peculiar institutions castigated all men such as Wick who boldly
                    followed the Polk administration. How could Wick explain his apparent lack of sectional interest?
            The Hoosier politician replied that his constituents had sent him to Congress to carry out executive
                    policy, and furthermore, his position was clear on each of the issues under attack. The 
                        Oregon
                     question was now dead and past. As for the coffee and tea tax, it was merely a
                    temporary measure to finance the Mexican War, and like any direct tax, he declared, it would fall
                    hardest on the laborers of the North. Concerning the Harbors Bill, when he had found out that this
                    measure would put harbors where God had not intended them, he had supported the
                    President's veto.
            The Democrats of the Northwest were beginning to establish loyalty checks on their fellow party
                    members. Collectively, the support given each measure in Congress spotlighted the faction to which
                    each House member belonged. Those who supported the Polk administration became, in the eyes of the
                    insurgents, mere tools of the southern politicians, whereas northwestern Democrats opposed to the
                    President were evolving into a new species of Democrats.
            Although Indiana party members opposed the President's policy, they apparently did not see
                    fit to rise up in wild protests comparable to those of the neighbors of the Northwest. The Upper
                    West was breaking away from the Lower, as Hubbart  has pointed
                    out, to make a section within a section,17 but the political manifestations of
                    this process were not clear-cut in Indiana, probably because the Hoosiers did not have the factors
                    present in an appreciable quantity that would tend to create a strong upper West.
            With one sand-filled harbor on its forty miles of Lake 
                        Michigan
                     shoreline that as yet had not developed a hinterland from which it could drain off
                    surplus commodities, the lake area was in many ways the least developed section of Indiana. The
                    residents of 
                        La Porte
                     and 
                        South Bend
                    , anxious for improvements at 
                        Michigan
                     City as well as at 
                        St. Joseph
                    , in 
                        Michigan
                    , were represented in Congress by a Democrat (whose district also included the Upper 
                        Wabash
                     Valley), who faithfully supported the national administration. He deplored the Polk
                    veto of lake improvements, but he did not offer much encouragement to the politically aroused of 
                        La Porte
                    . When the citizens adopted a resolution that they would vote for no man as their
                    representative in Congress who would not approve bills for harbor improvements, Charles W. Cathcart
                    told his constituents that no appropriations could be expected during the present administration,
                    for there was little chance that a two-thirds vote could be secured. He suggested this remedy:
                    "if they expected their representative to procure such an appropriation, they had better
                    secure another man."18
            
            It was during the first week of August, 1846, that the Northwest received another disappointment. It
                    was oppressively hot and muggy in 
                        Washington
                    , and the members of Congress who had been at their seats for nearly two hundred and
                    fifty days labored feverishly over the remaining tasks of the session. Saturday was set for
                    adjournment. By that time, the first session of the Twenty-ninth Congress would have been the
                    longest in history.19 On Wednesday, the Graduation Bill came from the Senate
                    with amendments and the House proceeded to vote on whether to lay it on the table. Although the
                    members from Indiana could not agree to this proposition, 
                  
                     17 Henry C. Hubbart, The Older Middle West,
                                1840–1880 (
                                New York
                            , 1936), 88–103, passim.
                  
                     18 William M. Hall, 
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 River-and-Harbor Convention: An Account of Its Origin and Proceedings (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882), 34–37; Memoirs of Charles W. Cathcart, in 
                                La Porte
                             Historical Society Collection, 
                                La Porte
                            , Indiana. Hall gives the impression in his quotation from the 
                        
                                    La Porte
                                 County Whig that this was meant to mean a new president. Cathcart, in
                            his memoirs, wrote that this would mean another representative in Congress.
                  
                     19
                            National Intelligencer, August 4, 1846.
               
                     they were defeated.20 On Thursday, Polk
                    submitted to the House a copy of the convention settling the 
                        Oregon
                     difficulties and requested that a territorial government be established as quickly as
                    possible along with liberal grants of land to aid settlement. Representative James Thompson of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     offered an amendment prohibiting slavery in the new territory. The bill and the
                    proposed amendment were discussed, and all of the Indiana congressmen agreed that the slavery
                    amendment, which evoked little comment, should be in the bill; it passed by a vote of 108 to 43. On
                    Friday the House worked on the business of appropriations bills until 10:30 P.M., and on Saturday,
                    as the time for adjournment approached, the House continued to discuss appropriations, including
                    Polk's request for two million dollars to promote peaceful negotiations with 
                        Mexico
                    ; work continued on into the evening session. According to his biographer, Owen during
                    the afternoon recess learned of David Wilmot's intention to inject the slavery
                    prohibition into the debate, and he warned Wilmot that this was no time to bring up the issue. Yet
                    late on Saturday evening, Wilmot did just that.21
            
            Owen, the first Democrat of the Northwest to gain the floor of the House, declared that peace was the
                    primary consideration, virtually ignoring the impending sectional conflict over slavery. Wick
                    quickly added an amendment to extend the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise line into any future territory acquired out of the Mexican War.22 When the entire measure came to a vote, Wick asked to be excused from casting
                    his vote, pleading that although he supported the administration plan, to add provisions regulating
                    a land which we did not as yet own was in bad taste, arrogant, and indecent. His request was denied
                    by the House. The individual votes on the proviso itself were unrecorded in The
                        Congressional Globe, but Owen seems to have been one of the few northwestern Democrats who
                    did not support the proviso.23 On the whole bill, no Indianan was found in the
                    opposition, but only Thomas Henley, Jr., and Owen were recorded in favor of the bill.24 Apparently most of 
                  
                     20
                            Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 1 Sess., 1195–96.
                  
                     21 Richard W. Leopold, Robert Dale Owen (
                                Cambridge
                            , Massachusets, 1940), 208–9.
                  
                     22
                            Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 1 Sess., 1216.
                  
                     23 Leopold, Robert Dale Owen, 209.
                  
                     24
                            Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 1 Sess., 1218.
               
                     Indiana's representatives did not see fit to express
                    their views either way.25
            
            The Wilmot Proviso by bringing into the political arena a new ingredient—the expansion of
                    slavery—tested the versatility of the Hoosier politician. Limited by experience and the
                    will of his constituents, he was forced to rummage through his political baggage to find the proper
                    political adhesive to apply to this new crack in the party structure.
            The average Hoosier was not very hospitable to abolitionism, with the result that the movement took
                    root slowly and only in particular localities. The Quakers of the Whitewater Valley offered perhaps
                    the most fertile field of endeavor. In 1839, the Friends of 
                        Newport
                     had organized an Anti-Slavery Library Society. One of the Friends, Levi Coffin, had
                    been aiding fugitive slaves for years, having begun the task in 
                        North Carolina
                     many years previously. It is interesting to note that in 1840, Arnold Buffum of 
                        Rhode Island
                    , a charter member of William L. Garrison's society in 
                        Boston
                    , had lived with the Coffins while lecturing on the subject of abolitionism.26 The turn that abolitionism had taken was giving the Friends in Indiana cause
                    for alarm. The Yearly Meeting in 1841 had warned against opening meeting houses for anti-slavery
                    meetings, and the following year several Friends were "disqualified" for
                    usefulness in the body presumably for anti-slavery activity. Benjamin Stanton, who edited the Free Labor Advocate, and Charles Osborn, one of the most famous of the
                    abolitionists, were among those who were asked to leave.27 In 1843, the Society
                    went on record warning its members not to join antislavery societies. Thus the Friends were
                    splitting not over slavery per se, so much as over the method of handling it.
            Other churches in Indiana in the early forties were also 
                  
                     25 The origin of the proviso has been the subject of some historical
                            controversy. Charles W. Cathcart claimed in his memoirs that as a member of the House, his
                            recollection was that Brinkerhoff drew up the amendment and passed it around to Wilmot
                            "who was addressing the House in his usual animated strain." Memoirs of
                            Charles W. Cathcart.
                  
                     26 When Buffum founded the Protectionist and
                            espoused a third party policy in the cause of abolition, his daughter wrote that she was
                            sorry that her father's paper was political in nature. She agreed with her father
                            as to what constituted a spiritual or carnal weapon to be used in the overthrow of the
                            institution of slavery. "Is not a ballot a carnal weapon?" she asked. Life of Elizabeth Buffum Chace, 90, quoted in Jacob P. Dunn, Indiana and Indianans (5 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), I, 510.
                  
                     27 George W. Julian, "The Rank of Charles Osborn as an
                            Anti-Slavery Pioneer," in Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1895-), II (1895), 262; Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, I,
                            515–16.
               
                     troubled by the antislavery impulse. In 1842, the True Wesleyan, a Methodist paper, withdrew from the church, but the Methodist church as a
                    whole, perhaps the largest denomination in the state, was not yet ready to follow the extremists. If
                    it can be interpreted as a reflection of the opinion of its members, the attitude of the majority of
                    its leaders was much like that of the Hoosier politicians who took the position that the Northwest
                    had a special role to play as a great middle force in the Union. The church and state, although
                    separated, were nevertheless influenced by the same social forces. In 1844, when the Methodist
                    church was brought face to face with the question of secession induced by the stumbling block of
                    slavery, the Indiana Conference of the church deplored the action of the national body. In
                    resolutions adopted by the Northern Indiana Conference, it declared that "we do in fear of
                    God protest against all efforts by whatever source proceeding, to divide the Methodist Episcopal
                        Church."28
            
            Later, when the 
                        Erie
                     Conference of 
                        Ohio
                     resolved that the next General Conference add the rule that holding of slaves was to be
                    outside the tenets of the church, the North Indiana Conference by a vote of 60 to 2 refused to
                    concur. At the same session, an agent of the colonization society attempted to address tiie
                    conference, but he was stopped by some members who were determined not to arouse any excitement on
                    the subject of slavery. Later, the conference voted to hear him, but the speaker declined to
                        continue.29
            
            These men of the church were not proslavery-minded; like their brother politicians, they were merely
                    attempting to place themselves between the extremes. As practical men, they prided themselves that
                    this was the western approach to action. The future middle ground stand of the politician had a
                    forerunner in the actions of the church leaders of 1844. While at the Convention of Southern
                    Methodists at 
                        Louisville
                    , Bishop Matthew Simpson of Indiana wrote to his wife: "I learn that seventeen
                    brethren of the 
                        Kentucky
                     Conference have declared themselves openly Northern men, and a number are undecided;
                    that an effort will be made to postpone action until the next General Conference, and that Northern
                    men may make 
                  
                     28
                            Western Christian Advocate, November 1, 1844, quoted in H. N. Herrick and
                            William W. Sweet, A History of the North Indiana Conference of the Methodist
                                Episcopal Church (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1917), 8.
                  
                     29 Herrick and Sweet, History of the North Indiana
                                Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, 17.
               
                     terms of compromise, etc. If any effort should be made to get
                    Northern men to pledge themselves, my stay at 
                        Louisville
                     will be short, as I shall compromise nothing by any act or word of mine."30 This was the rather reluctant and distrustful view of the Indiana Methodist
                    leader. Quakers and Methodists alike were finding that the slavery question complicated church
                    structure and undoubtedly slowed down the spirit of the church in its mission, but Hoosier churchmen
                    were reluctant for the most part to take a stand on either side of the controversy.
            The attitudes of the Hoosier laymen toward the Negro also contributed to the political climate
                    typical of Indiana. The legal framework of the state placed very definite restrictions on the Negro.
                    He was treated as a vagrant in most localities. In the constitution of 1816, the only restriction
                    placed upon the Negro was that he could not vote or serve in the militia. In the same year,
                    legislative permission was asked to settle a group of emancipated slaves in the state; the committee
                    of the legislature to which the request was referred replied that it "would be impolitic to
                    sanction by any special act of the general assembly the admission of emancipated Africans into this
                    state; the reasons are that the Negroes being a distinct species, insuperable objections exist to
                    their participation in the rights of suffrage, representation in government or alliance by marriage,
                    and that in consequence, they could never feel themselves completely free."31
            
            The citizens of Indiana took pride in the adjective "free," giving it a wide
                    connotation. It was applied to labor, the West, and the people. Occupied with local problems and the
                    business of establishing themselves, the agrarian desire to be left alone, whether it be from
                    taxation, reformers, free education, or meddling neighbors, was very evident. The farmers were not
                    particularly concerned over slavery—they just did not like Negroes, slave or free.
                    William W. Wick seemingly did not exaggerate the feeling of many when he said: "We have our
                    antipathies in Indiana; but they are not local antipathies. I will name three of them …
                    they are abolitionism, free-niggerism, and slavery."32
            
            It was characteristic of the citizenry to be reluctant to change its attitude with the result that
                    the abolitionist not 
                  
                     30 George R. Crooks, The Life of Bishop Matthew
                            Simpson (
                                New York
                            , 1891), 243–44.
                  
                     31 Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, I, 348.
                  
                     32
                            Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 2 Sess., Appendix, 169.
               
                     only had difficulty in arousing the church, but he had an
                    equally difficult time in a court of law. When some boys were indicted in 
                        Rush County
                     for disturbing an abolition meeting, the jury acquitted them on the ground that an
                    abolition meeting was not a lawful assemblage, peaceably assembled for a lawful purpose. The members
                    of the jury considered themselves as the judges of the law and the evidence. It must be noted,
                    however, that this verdict was not universally accepted, for one editor wrote: "If it
                    should be sustained, it would establish a white slavery much worse than any black
                    slavery we know of."33
            
            Indiana politicians had not been troubled to any great extent by the politically inclined antislavery
                    groups. The Liberty party had run a slate in the state election of 1843, with Elizur Deming and
                    Stephen S. Harding, both capable men, as its candidates, but it had not been able to garner any more
                    than twenty-six hundred votes. The canvass for James G. Birney in 1844 had been of no special
                    significance, either.34 In the major parties, politicians, always willing to use
                    expediency in appealing to voters, were not hesitant to play on the local attitudes in order to gain
                    an extra pocketful of antislavery votes. This could mean anything from making a diversion with the
                    Liberty party to employing such devices as one Whig suggested when he wrote: "It might not
                    be amiss to tell the folks that Joe Marshall [Whig candidate for governor] had a considerable
                    patrimony in slaves left him—all of whom he has emancipated &
                    provided for in this State."35
            
            Indiana politicians, despite these few flirtations, were unwilling to relax the laws of the state
                    dealing with the Negro. In 1841–1842, when a bill was put before the legislature
                    providing that fugitives be given jury trials and be allowed to testify in court, Hannegan, then a
                    member of the state legislature, protested "the presumption of negro virtue." A
                    law of 1831 that had required Negroes to give bond of five hundred dollars for their good behavior
                    before receiving permission to settle in the state was also under fire, and Hannegan asked his 
                  
                     33 Erookville American quoted in Indiana State Sentinel, June 26, 1845.
                  
                     34
                            The Whig Almanac and 
                                    United States
                                 Register for 1845 (New-York, 1845), 52.
                  
                     35 Godlove S. Orth to Schuyler Coifax, 
                                Lafayette
                            , August 16, 1845, January 27, 1846, in J. Herman Schauinger (ed.),
                            "The Letters of God-love S. Orth, Hoosier Whig," Indiana
                                Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), XXXIX (1943), 367, 368, 380.
               
                     fellow members not to stimulate Negro immigration or join the
                    abolition ranks "to make our beloved State the theatre of their efforts
                    to annoy our slaveholding neighbors, and sow the seeds of dissension between brethren and friends,
                    in open violation of the letter and spirit of the Constitutional Compact which united us together as
                    one people." It was the duty and honor of the free states to help make their
                    neighbor's property secure. Furthermore, cried the Indiana orator, he would "not
                    hesitate to shoulder my musket in defense of the Constitutional rights of those States upon whom
                    Slavery has been entailed and whose misfortune, in that respect, has been construed by folly into
                        crime."36 Hannegan treated the institution of slavery as a
                    misfortune that had befallen his neighbors, much as if they had begot idiot children.
            Jesse Bright, unlike Joseph Marshall, had not freed his slaves and continued to hold them in 
                        Carroll County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    . Much of his time between his political labors in Indiana and 
                        Washington
                     was spent there on his farm. It would be difficult to determine how many more men of
                    the bustling 
                        Ohio
                     River towns lived in Indiana and held slave property in 
                        Kentucky
                    , for the 
                        Ohio
                     River world included both shores of that stream. Although Hannegan and Bright both
                    deplored abolitionism, the former, at least before the storm broke over the Wilmot Proviso, gave
                    tacit approval to his neighboring slaveholders. In March, 1845, Hannegan criticized the New
                    Englanders in the Senate who were complaining of the southern laws regarding the Negro. Indiana, he
                    declared: "lay side by side of 
                        Kentucky
                    , where slavery existed, and yet the people of Indiana did not complain of any of the
                    laws of 
                        Kentucky
                     affecting the intercourse between the two States. On the contrary, it was beautiful to
                    contemplate the relation in that gallant State between master and servant."37 Hannegan, in his eloquence, may have been carried away again by the wondrous flow of
                    his utterances; yet the fact remains that he did make such statements. These excursions of the
                    politicians into the slavery question, however, were put in the past when David Wilmot threw slavery
                    and expansion into one basket and handed it to an already disgruntled Congress.
            
               
                  36
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana State Sentinel, January 20, 1842, quoted in Frankie I.
                        Jones, "Edward A. Hannegan" (Master's thesis, Department of
                        History, The University of 
                            Chicago
                        , 1940), 63.
               
                  37
                        Congressional Globe, 28 Cong., 2 Sess., 382.
            
            
            Early in 1847, the congressmen of Indiana began to air their views as to slavery in general and the
                    proviso in particular, using much the same treatment everywhere. They were reluctant to take any
                    extreme position. John Pettit of 
                        Lafayette
                    , who felt called upon to explain his actions, gave two reasons for voting for the
                    proviso: first, to make the appropriations bill so odious to the South that its congressmen would
                    vote it down; second, "because it was my firm, well-settled, and conscientious opinion that
                    we ought not, under any circumstances, to allow what I conceive to be a moral, political and
                    physical evil, to be extended under the authority of this government." But Pettit did not
                    want to be misunderstood. "I've no sickly sympathy with the negro. …
                    I believe that it [slavery] is a blessing to the entire black population."38
            
            A few days later, Wick expressed his views of the proviso in terms of the party. Wick's
                    criterion for judging every practice was to test its merits in relation to the Democratic party. He
                    was frequently engaged, it seems, in acting as a self-appointed party whip to remind his colleagues
                    of the necessity for party unity. He took this occasion to deplore the impracticability of the
                    Democratic majority in the House, with a speech that exemplified the western desire to act in the
                    Democratic mechanism as the great balance wheel over-riding sectional friction. His observations
                    were typical of those who were unwilling to recognize any disruptive forces that would strain the
                    national unity of the party and who religiously preached the central themes of party loyalty and
                    practical politics. Wick castigated the rising factional spirit thus: "Perhaps some of that
                    majority are but half-baked Democrats —need grinding over again. To this may be added a
                    little individual ambition disappointed. State feuds and factious jealousy may come in for a share,
                    and President-making in 1848 operates, mayhap, to clog the wheels. Such things I leave to be
                    reproved and punished by the people, posterity, history, and God. Sometimes it seems to me as if
                    some of us forget that we are members of one great firm, each bound to exert himself for the common
                    account; and that there is a kind of peddling in small wares—such as Abolitionism and
                    Nullification, for instance—on individual account. It was but the other day that we
                    contrived to get up a tempest in a teapot on the subject of the kind of municipal laws to be
                    established in the territory 
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., 29 Cong., 2 Sess., 180–81.
               
                     which it is assumed we are to acquire, by
                    cession or by force, as an indemnity from our unjust neighbors, the Mexicans! As if it were reduced
                    to a certainty that wisdom will die with this Congress, and that no subsequent Congress will have
                    the temerity to overset matters of our ordaining…. Hereupon, some of our southern
                    friends, feeling that they have as good a right, and as good a will, to expand themselves
                    … made this Hall ring with threats of disunion and secession—threats from
                    which I must be excused for withholding my respect, whether they come from 
                        Boston
                     or 
                        Charleston
                    —the Bay State or the Old Dominion.
            "The result seems to be that the Democratic party in this Hall is incapable of united
                    action, more because of certain local and personal peculiar idiosyncracies, which the owners nurse
                    as the nurseryman nurses his vegetable pots, from habit, rather than any rational preference, or
                    respect for them."39
            
            Hannegan in the Senate treated the proviso in much the same manner as Wick, as if it were a mere
                    disturber of the peace. There was time enough, according to the Senator, to talk of slavery when the
                    new territory gained from the Mexican War was actually part of the Union.40
            
            Robert Dale Owen also preferred to support an appropriation bill without the nuisance of considering
                    an antislavery proviso. Owen claimed that it was only common sense to vote against "a
                    clause, which every one knew must, if persisted in, defeat it; no matter how much opposed that man
                    might be to domestic institutions, which the progress of improvement must soon sweep
                        away."41
            
            These legislators of Indiana represented the feeling of their constituents in several ways. They were
                    puzzled in the sense that they could not comprehend any political sagacity in bringing slavery into
                    the party battles, remembering that the Liberty party had not been able to throw a scare into the
                    politicians of the old parties in Indiana. Yet they were reluctant to take a stand against the
                    slavery question and thereby lose a degree of availability. Their middle ground position was
                    becoming more hazardous for it was increasingly difficult to stand on the plateau of neutrality and
                    watch it slowly crumb 
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., 264.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., 616.
                  
                     41
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune, March 13, 1847, quoted by Leopold, Robert Dale
                            Owen, 211.
               
                     ling under their feet, being washed away by the action of the
                    cross currents. When Wick and his colleagues attempted to castigate wavering Democrats, they found
                    their weapons were rather limited, so they centered their arguments around blind loyalty to party.
                    The solution, however, was not as simple as that; political tongue-lashings were not enough to
                    restore complete accord because party unity, per se, did not change the social and economic
                    realities of the growing sectionalism of the nation. It was more comfortable for the party stalwarts
                    of Indiana to assume the role of purveyors of expediency than for Democrats like John Wentworth of 
                        Illinois
                     or Jacob Brinkerhoff of 
                        Ohio
                    , who were plagued by constituencies that were pulling apart from the West represented
                    by the Indiana politicians.
            The Hoosier press gave some indication that for practical reasons it would also take the high middle
                    ground on the slavery issue. The New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Democrat, for example, expressed a southern Whig view in its own statement
                    concerning the extension of the institution of slavery, prefacing its remarks with the inevitable
                    disarming introduction: "None can be more opposed to the principle of slavery than we are;
                    none would rejoice more than in the triumph of Northern principles in the settling of this question,
                    but so far as the practical effect of the prohibition of slavery in the newly acquired territory is
                    concerned, we have good authority—Whig authority—for saying that it is of but
                    little moment. Slavery cannot be made profitable there; and when it ceases to be profitable, it will
                    cease to exist."42
            
            One of the few who favored the proviso was Schuyler Colfax up in 
                        South Bend
                    , who believed that by girdling the slaveholding states with a belt of freedom, slavery
                    would be choked out.43 There was thus a fumbling about by politicians and
                    editors who were unable to gauge the prevailing political winds. As election days came one upon
                    another, the political pots were kept constantly boiling, the fires never having a chance to die
                    down.
            The congressional elections of 1847 were in reality a prelude to the coming presidential campaign of
                    the following year. Many of the congressmen had just cause for concern as 
                  
                     42 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Democrat, August 21, 1847.
                  
                     43 Willard H. Smith, "Schuyler Colfax: Whig Editor,
                            1845–1855," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIV (1938),
                            270.
               
                     to their political futures. The Mexican War had drained the
                    treasury; appropriations for the western program had not been forthcoming; the 
                        Oregon
                     controversy had not completely satisfied the expansionist demands; and above all, what
                    would be the reaction of the voters to the attitudes of her congressmen on slavery?
            The difficulties of the Democratic party permeated all levels. There were some purely local
                    squabbles, during which Robert Dale Owen and John Pettit were faced with the charges of being
                    infidels. John W. Davis, speaker of the House, was the victim of a three-way Democratic race, and
                    Hannegan devoted himself to a bitter fight with Joseph E. Wright in the 
                        Terre Haute
                     district. In the lake region, Cathcart was forced to carry the burden of the Democratic
                    internal improvement policy into his campaign for re-election.
            The Rivers and Harbors Convention at 
                        Chicago
                    , July 4, 1847, which excited the Northwest generally, failed to arouse much interest in
                    Indiana except in the northern section of the state. Although 
                        La Porte
                     and 
                        St. Joseph
                     counties both sent large delegations (
                        La Porte
                     County alone sent 110 delegates) only 13 of the state's 92 counties were
                    represented. 
                        La Porte
                     had prepared for the convention at a meeting in April when it was voted that no man
                    would be nominated for office who did not support the rivers and harbors bills.44
            
            Many of the leading Whigs of the state were present. Schuyler Colfax, at that time a young Whig
                    editor acting as a secretary, was disappointed at the outcome of the convention, claiming it did not
                    go far enough in demanding funds to improve the lakes.45
            
            The Democrats joined some of the national Whigs in exhibiting reluctance as being identified with the
                    movement. The Sentinel, as spokesman for the Hoosier Democrats, reported the
                    affair as a Whig attempt to make political capital, but its editor assured the party stalwarts that
                    the attempt had failed.46
            
            
               
                  44 Hall, 
                     
                                Chicago
                             River-and-Harbor Convention, 34–37. The fact that 
                            Wayne
                         County sent a delegation raises the question of the role of the Whigs in the
                        protest. Ibid.
               
                  45 Smith, "Schuyler Colfax," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, XXXIV, 268; Ovando J. Hollister, Life of Schuyler
                            Colfax (
                            New York
                        , 1886), 42.
               
                  46
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana State Sentinel, July 21, 1847. The activities of the
                        Democrats in avoiding the convention in a sense closely followed Webster's fears that
                        the internal improvements issue would lose its value. Daniel Webster to James A. Hamilton,
                        Marshfield, June 17, 1847, quoted
            
            
            Lewis Cass did not attend the convention, and his explanation for his absence occasioned the Whig
                    comment that Cass could not support his section on improvements without turning a "cold
                    shoulder" to the southern wing of the Democratic party.47
            
            After the convention ended, and the election took place, it was disclosed that the convention had had
                    little effect on Indiana politics, for Charles Cathcart, the Democratic incumbent whose district
                    bordered Lake 
                        Michigan
                    , and who had shown so little interest in lake improvements, was re-elected to
                        Congress.48
            
            Slavery and the Mexican War must also be considered in connection with the canvass. The
                    "abolition committee" in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , according to the Sentinel, asked Nicholas McCarty, the Whig
                    candidate for Congress, for his views on these issues, to which he replied he would not vote for the
                    admission of any slave territory where slavery did not already exist; he would reserve the right of
                    expediency on any vote concerning territory where it already existed; and he favored the Wilmot
                    Proviso. The Sentinel was quick to accuse the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Whig of seeking a mixed vote.49 McCarty, the opponent of William W.
                    Wick, was an administration supporter par excellence; nevertheless, the Whig was defeated and Wick
                    remained a congressman.
            The war issue was a popular bludgeon for other Whigs. Although Elisha Embree used practically all of
                    the mud slinging tactics available to him in an effort to defeat Robert Dale Owen, it was really the 
                        New Harmony
                     reformer's advocacy of the 
                        Texas
                     annexation which boomeranged and defeated him. Owen had told his constituents that he
                    himself could do all the fighting that would ever grow out of annexation, and when news of the war
                    reached the "pocket" district, one old Whig inquired, "Why aint he off
                    and on the battleground." Owen was not the only Democrat who had made this sort of
                    statement, 
                   in James A. Hamilton, Reminiscences of James A. Hamilton (
                                New York
                            , 1864), 355.
                  
                     47
                            
                        
                                    La Porte
                                 County Whig, September 11, 1847.
                  
                     48 The pattern of voting in the election failed to show any reversal
                            in political behavior. Cathcart carried all the counties bordering Lake 
                                Michigan
                            , while the Whig opponent from the neighborhood of 
                                Logansport
                             carried the neighboring counties. In 
                                Elkhart
                             County, the domain of E. W. H. Ellis, Cathcart rolled up a huge majority. See
                            the Whig Almanac for 1848, p. 48, for returns.
                  
                     49
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana State Sentinel, July 3, 1847.
               
                     and when the campaign began the next year, Embree's
                    party friends took great delight in reminding Owen again and again of the boasts he and his
                    colleagues had made.50
            
            Doubts were expressed by even a few Democrats as to whether the Mexican War had real support in
                    Indiana. John Law, friend and correspondent of Martin Van Buren, wrote during the summer of 1847:
                    "The Truth is the Mexican War is not popular in the thinking and reflecting majority of our
                    party…. Who wins? and though we are very conservative sort of people—we want
                    no addition of slave states."51
            
            The canvass did not result in a clear mandate on these issues—it merely indicated that the
                    "New Democracy" of 1843 had lost some of its momentum at an inopportune time, the
                    eve of a presidential election. The Whigs had gained two seats in the House of Representatives, and
                    the state-wide popular vote showed increasing Whig strength in Indiana. There were issues present
                    that required solution, and no solutions were foreseeable. The Mexican War, the slavery question,
                    and internal improvements continued to harrass the politicians of both parties.
            John Law of 
                        Vincennes
                     could not explain the inability of his party to cope with the situation. He wrote:
                    "I have never seen more apathy and indifference in the democratic party—Why in
                    Wherefore I cannot say."52
            
            Contrasted to the apathy of the Democrats was the activity of the Whigs, who, encouraged by the
                    election results, began to cast about for a presidential hope. One of the early spokesmen for the
                    party summed up the situation thus: "if peace is declared and that peace brings with it a
                    portion of Mexican territory as indemnity we must have a Northern man for our
                    candidate—as the question of slavery will then be presented to the people of this Union
                    in a shape that cannot be avoided."53 Here was the sectional view
                    within the national framework.
            
               
                  50 Samuel Frisbie to Elisha Embree, 
                            Rome
                        , Indiana, June 20, 1846, May 15, 1847, Embree Papers, Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               
                  51 John Law to Martin Van Buren, 
                            Vincennes
                        , August 2, 1847, Martin Van Buren Papers. Microfilm copy of these papers is at the
                        University of 
                            Chicago
                        .
               
                  52
                        Ibid.
               
                  53 Orth to Caleb Smith, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , January 30, 1848, in Schauinger. "The Letters of Godlove S. Orth, Hoosier
                        Whig," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIX, 390.
            
            
            The Twenty-ninth Congress had not succeeded in bringing any clarity to the confused and stormy
                    political atmosphere of Indiana and the Northwest. Sectionalism continued to cloud the atmosphere,
                    although Indiana had not reacted to the Polk administration to the same degree as had its neighbors.
                    The stresses and strains pulling at the Union were not quite as apparent in the Hoosier political
                    behavior, and Indiana's politicians were still able to chide those who threatened to
                    stray either north or south—they continued to take seriously their role as
                    "Borderers of the Republic."
         
         
         
            Settlement of New 
                        Albany
                    
            
            
                    Victor M. Bogle*
               
                
            Throughout most of the nineteenth century there was only one major obstruction to navigation on the 
                        Ohio
                     River from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to Cairo. This was the series of rapids, known as the "Falls,"
                    located a little more than half way along the course of the normally peaceful stream. The obstacle
                    caused much inconvenience to river captains who wished to get their cargo as speedily and safely as
                    possible to its destination. To others who saw their fortunes in the role of middle men, the hazard
                    offered a natural site for a commercial entrepot.
            As early as 1780, the potential worth of the area was sufficiently appreciated for a settlement to
                    cluster on the southern side of the river at the head of the Falls. This was the town of 
                        Louisville
                    , whose establishment resulted from the activities of the Revolutionary warrior George
                    Rogers Clark. On the north, or what was to be the Indiana side of the river, two other settlements
                    formed a few years later: one was 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , at the head of the Falls; the other, Clarksville, lying along part of the two and a
                    half mile stretch of rapids. Below the Falls there was only the tiny village of Shippingport on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side, and almost an unbroken forest on the northern bank. This latter, or northwest
                    corner of the square formed around the Falls, became the site of New 
                        Albany
                    .
            By 1813, the year New 
                        Albany
                     was founded, the role which the 
                        Ohio
                     was to play in the scheme of western transportation and expansion was still largely in
                    the blueprint stage. Already the river served as a vital connecting link to the area farther west,
                    having been traveled for many years by canoes, keelboats, barges, and flatboats. But its true value
                    was not to be realized until there was something besides the port of 
                        New Orleans
                     for the East to be connected to. And building a town anywhere along the six hundred
                    fifty-mile stretch was something of a gamble. As a terminus the new town might
                    "boom," then be passed by as a mere way station when a more suitable point down
                    the line became favored.
            The first settlers around the Falls concerned themselves very little with the unwritten laws that
                    governed the rise and 
                  
                     * Victor M. Bogle is a resident of 
                                Washington
                            , D.C. This article is a revised chapter of his Ph.D. dissertation at 
                                Boston
                             University, 1951, written under the direction of Warren S. Tryon.
               
                     decline of frontier towns. They were aware that so long as
                    boatmen had to pause and find a way to grapple with this natural hazard to their shipping the
                    residents of the area were likely to profit in some way from the inconvenience. When New 
                        Albany
                    's founders, the Scribner brothers, floated down the 
                        Ohio
                     in search of a site for a new town, they readily perceived the advantages of the area.
                    Settlements already having been established on all the other key points around the Falls, their eyes
                    were attracted to the one remaining spot on the Indiana shore at the lower end of the rapids.
            The Scribners were not the first to see that this section of the northern bank was valuable. They
                    learned that the land nearest the termination of the Falls—and more nearly opposite 
                        Louisville
                     on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side—had been taken up by men who did not choose to sell. In 1784, the
                    Commonwealth of 
                        Virginia
                     had given the entire region on the northern side along the Falls to General Clark as a
                    reward for his military services.1 This grant, totaling one hundred fifty
                    thousand acres, had in turn been divided among his followers. The spot which the Scribners coveted
                    was within the grant and belonged to two of the veterans, Epaphras Jones and a Mr. Whitehill.
                    Failing to purchase this, the next choice of the Scribners was the parcel of land just outside the
                    grant belonging to Colonel John Paul of 
                        Madison
                    . Colonel Paul had purchased his plot in 1808, probably more for the purpose of
                    speculation than for development.2 The Scribners succeeded in buying from him an
                    area amounting to 826 1/2 acres. The purchase price was eight thousand dollars.3
            
            The Scribners were urban people, not frontiersmen in the tradition of Daniel 
                        Boone
                     and Davy Crockett. From the first they had the idea of laying out a town.4 The three brothers deservedly accredited with founding the town—Joel, Abner,
                    and Nathaniel—stemmed from a family of eastern mercantile people. They were restless
                    "get-ahead folks," moving from place to place in 
                        New York
                     and New 
                        England
                    , pinning their hopes on the grocery business one time, the milling business 
                  
                     1 Henry A. and Kate Ford, History of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Falls Cities and Their Counties (2 vols., 
                                Cleveland
                            , 1882), II, 139.
                  
                     2 William A. Scribner, Early Days in New 
                                Albany
                            , 216–17. Manuscript in the 
                                Floyd County
                             Historical Collection, New 
                                Albany
                             Public Library, 1862. There were a few scattered settlers in this area,
                            Including a ferryboatman.
                  
                     3 Ford, History of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Falls Cities, II, 139, 141.
                  
                     4 Scribner, Early Days in New 
                                Albany
                            , 16–17.
               
                     the next. Just prior to their moving westward the three were
                    merchants in 
                        New York
                     City, Joel having had a "family grocery and feed store" at 
                        Broadway
                     and Spring Street.5
            
            In 1811, Joel had formed a partnership with his brother-in-law, William Waring, with whom he planned
                    to establish a leather business in the new town of 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The two men piled their families and belongings in their "Yankee"
                    and "Jersey" wagons and headed for the promising West. Except for an argument
                    between Joel and Waring as to whether they should travel on the Sabbath, the trip was made as
                    uneventfully as trips could be made in those days.6 Shortly after their arrival
                    in crowded 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Waring went off to fight in the War of 1812, and the partnership was dissolved. Joel
                    decided that his best chance to earn a living lay still farther west. Joined by his brothers, Abner
                    and Nathaniel, he started down the river to find a suitable place to support his family and pursue
                    his mercantile ambitions. The search had ended some hundred miles down the stream when the brothers
                    sighted the prosperous village of 
                        Louisville
                     and visualized an equally prosperous village on the Indiana shore.
            The ground purchased by the Scribners for their town was bounded on the south by the river, and on
                    the north and west by a range of hills known as the "Knobs," or "Silver
                        Hills."7 The Scribners had looked to the Falls, three miles above,
                    as a source of water power for industrial purposes; but when they were forced to establish the town
                    considerably below the immediate Falls area, they had to settle for what other compensations there
                    were in the bargain. As it turned out, the purchased land met the immediate requirements very well:
                    there were plenty of fresh water springs; a hilly landscape free of the usual "disease
                    infested" lowlands; an abundance of building timber; and at least one small stream, Falling
                    Run Creek, that would serve amply for the scale of milling operations with which they were prepared
                    to begin. The site had its 
                  
                     5 Mary S. D. Collins, "New 
                                Albany
                            , With a Short Sketch of the Scribner Family," Indiana
                                Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), XVII (1921), 211–13.
                  
                     6 Scribner, Early Days in New 
                                Albany
                            , 6.
                  
                     7 The New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger of August 3, 1885, gave this information on these hills:
                            "This range was always known to the Indians as the Silver Hills, and the name
                            'Knobs,' substituted by some of the ignorant North Carolinians and
                            Kentuckians of the pioneer days, has been taken up by their successors…. The
                            significance of the Indian name is the belt of light haze that nearly always hangs along the
                            sides of these magnificent hills and in the sunshine has the appearance of a thin belt of
                            silver."
               
                     aesthetic attractions too: when Joel's son, William,
                    viewed the valley and winding river from atop Cane Knob, he initiated a pastime that generations of
                    later New Albanians have delighted in continuing.
            Greenbriers, poplars, birches, and silver maples steadily gave way to the axes of the Scribners until
                    the core of New 
                        Albany
                     began to take form. The first tree fell on March 2, 1813, and just two months later
                    Joel had a large double log cabin ready for his family to move into. A surveyor by the name of John
                    Graham wandered in with his family, and he received the distinction of platting the town. Others
                    attracted to the settlement pitched in to cut trees, pile brush, and build cabins. The Scribners
                    shortly began to devote most of their time and energy to the setting up of a steam sawmill.8
            
            Details of the original platting of the town reveal the business-like manner of the Scribners, as
                    well as their New 
                        England
                     cultural roots. They were careful to guarantee to "the proprietors, their
                    heirs, and assigns forever" the exclusive right of ferrying from the town. They laid aside
                    a share of the town plat for the support of a school. The four corners of what was to be one of the
                    major intersections of the town they reserved for public buildings. And they designated a full block
                    for "the Public Promenade and Parade Ground."9
            
            The principal business and residential street running east and west, High Street, or later Main, was
                    platted along high ground over six hundred feet up from the lower bank of the river. It was
                    paralleled on the north by Market, Spring, Elm, and Oak streets. Running east and west along the
                    river was Water Street, designed as the natural avenue for river front activity. Running north and
                    south the principal street was State. It was to serve as the meridian between the
                    "upper" and "lower" sections of the town. The widths of the
                    streets varied according to their expected importance: Water Street was the widest, being one
                    hundred feet; High, Market, and Spring were all eighty feet, while Elm was sixty, and Oak, its
                    significance diminished because of its distance from the river, only thirty feet.10
            
            
               
                  8 Scribner, Early Days in New 
                            Albany
                        , 18.
               
                  9 Ford, History of the 
                                Ohio
                             Falls Cities, II, 149. As the center of activity pulled away from this
                        immediate neighborhood, the park was used more for pasturing than for parading.
               
                  10
                  Ibid., 149.
            
            
            This advertisement, which was given circulation at least as far east as 
                        Cincinnati
                    , is the best evidence of what the town was like in 1813, and what the Scribners wished
                    it to become: "This town [New 
                        Albany
                    ] is just laid out, with spacious streets, public squares, markets, etc. It is situated
                    on the bank of the 
                        Ohio
                     river, at the crossing place from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    , about two miles below the Falls, in the Indiana Territory, and affords a beautiful and
                    commodious harbor. The beauty of the prospect is not surpassed by any in the western country. The
                    bank adjoining the river is high, and not subject to inundations. At the distance of six hundred and
                    sixty feet back from the bank is a second rise of about twenty feet, from which there is an
                    extensive view up and down the river. There is a sufficient number of excellent and never-failing
                    springs for the supplying of any number of inhabitants.
            "These advantages, together with that of the country around being dry and clear of any
                    stagnant waters, being a sufficient distance below the Falls to avoid the fogs and any noxious
                    exhalement arising therefrom in the warm season, and the winds generally blowing up the river at
                    that time, are a sufficient reason to induce a belief of the healthfulness of the situation.
            "The advantages New 
                        Albany
                     has in point of trade are perhaps unrivaled by any town on the 
                        Ohio
                    , as it is immediately below all the dangers which boats and ships are subject to in
                    passing over the Falls, and is the only eligible situation for a depot for all the exports and
                    imports of a great part of the territory, and may export and import while the river is low and the
                    market good, as well as when the river is high.
            "From the vast quantity of excellent ship-timber, the great abundance of iron ore within a
                    few miles, and the facility with which hemp is raised, it is presumed this will be one of the best
                    ports in the 
                        United States
                     for the building of vessels as well as the loading of them. The erection of a saw-mill
                    to go by steam is contemplated this fall, and a grist- and flour-mill next summer."11
            
            A notable feature of New 
                        Albany
                    's early economic development is how closely it followed this pattern
                    outlined by the Scribners. These men might have missed the mark in predicting the degree of
                    prosperity which would eventually befall 
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., 144. One place the advertisement appeared was in the 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Liberty Hall.
               
                     their town—this was a common failing among town
                    boosters. But their minute planning and efficient organizing during the first critical years were to
                    be reflected in the town for many years to come. When discussing the achievements of pioneers, it is
                    easy to fall into eulogy; but the Scribners were among those worthy of eulogy. Personal faults and
                    failures have been completely forgotten in the presence of their very tangible
                    achievement—a well-established river settlement.
            Until his death in 1823, Joel Scribner served as the clerk of the newly formed 
                        Floyd County
                    ,12 but no member of the Scribner family took a positive role in the
                    governing of the community after the initial few years. As others came to figure more prominently,
                    the Scribners became noticeably less influential in the activities of the town. Partly from chance
                    accidents, and partly from the competition of more enterprising newcomers, their several milling
                    projects never quite worked out. And despite the large quantity of land they sold to incoming
                    settlers, the town project did not prove to be a successful financial investment for them.
                    Nathaniel's property was sold by his heirs in 1821 for what little it would bring,13 and three years later Joel's was sold to satisfy his creditors
                    after his estate had been declared insolvent.14 It was as though the founders
                    had served their primary purpose and then conveniently moved from the stage to make way for a
                    totally new set of actors.
            New settlers did not rush into the young village, but a fair number of those who made up the great
                    growing migration westward stopped to make New 
                        Albany
                     their home. Henry M'Murtrie, an early historian of 
                        Louisville
                    , whose 1819 account of the Falls area is a priceless asset to chroniclers of this
                    barren period, was among those who thought that New 
                        Albany
                     was making out very well. "For some time after it was laid out, New 
                        Albany
                    , like other places in the neighbourhood, increased but slowly, conflicting opinions and
                    clashing interests retarding its growth. The many natural advantages it possesses, however, have at
                    length surmounted every difficulty, and its progress of late has been unequalled by any town on the 
                        Ohio
                    , of so modern a date."15
            
            
               
                  12 Several years of the old county records are in his handwriting.
               
                  13 New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Chronicle, March 17, 1821.
               
                  14 New 
                            Albany
                        , Microscope and General Advertiser, December 25, 1824.
               
                  15 Henry M'Murtrie, Sketches of 
                                Louisville
                             and Its Environs (
                            Louisville
                        , 1819), 166. The "conflicting opinions" mentioned by this writer
                        is
            
            
            From the handful who were in the vicinity at the time the Scribners came, the number for the county
                    had grown to 2,776 by 1820.16 Some town antiquarians have been convinced that
                    nineteenth century New 
                        Albany
                     was but an offshoot of the northeastern seaboard. Emma Carlton stated that nearly every
                    old family in the city "harks back to ancestors from 
                        New York
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Virginia
                    ."17 Another claimed, "The Scribners, who were
                    educated and came from the land of churches and 
                        Puritan
                     ideas, labored hard to fill up their city with emigrants from New 
                        England
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                    , 
                        New York
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and other Northern States; and their efforts were not without success. Hundreds of
                    Eastern families, imbued with the spirit of freedom and enterprise, came to the new town; in fact,
                    the New 
                        England
                     element was continually and largely in the majority, and has always ruled the town and
                        city."18
            
            Any attempt to trace the former homes of the first settlers is beset with so many difficulties that a
                    workable conclusion cannot be reached. But a sampling taken from obituary notices of persons who
                    moved into the town and county before 1830 does not lend full support to a "New 
                        England
                     thesis." Most of the settled regions of the 
                        United States
                     had representatives in early New 
                        Albany
                    .
            There is some significance in the fact that nineteenth century citizens of the town believed that New 
                        Albany
                     had its roots in the old Northeast—despite evidence on every hand that their
                    town was bound up with the river and the southern economy it symbolized.
            New 
                        Albany
                     was formally incorporated as a town on November 13, 1816, shortly before Indiana was
                    admitted as a state. There is practically no information on how the town was governed during the
                    first half decade.19 Until 1819, it was 
                  the only record of the many controversies that must have accompanied the unfolding of the
                            Scribner plans.
                  
                     16
                            
                                United States
                            , Census for 1820, p. 36. The population is given for 
                                Floyd County
                             only.
                  
                     17 Clipping from the 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Journal, November 2, 1901, in the Emma Carlton
                            Scrapbook, 
                                Floyd County
                             Historical Society Collection, New 
                                Albany
                             Public Library.
                  
                     18 Ford, History of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Falls Cities, II, 142–43.
                  
                     19 The first extant records of the town government are dated 1825.
                            This thin, hand-written volume of town "Minutes" covers a period of
                            several years, and it shows that the business dealt with by the town officials differed
                            little from that handled by the county commissioners. The burden of governing was the
                            responsibility of the county commissioners, though the same persons shared in both to a
                            considerable extent. The early town records are in the office of the city clerk of New 
                                Albany
                            .
               
                     located in what was then 
                        Clark County
                    , the seat of this county being four miles up the river at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . As a result of agitation on the part of New 
                        Albany
                     residents, 
                        Floyd County
                     was formed from part of Clark and a small section of 
                        Harrison County
                     on the west.
            The "Minutes" of the County Council of Floyd are available from 1819 through the
                    next ten years, and the petty details which concerned the county commissioners sufficiently indicate
                    the scale of the early government. The general run of business had to do with the appointing of
                    jurors, overseers of the poor, inspectors for projected roads, and tax collectors; or with the
                    licensing of ferryboatmen and tavern keepers. The men who governed were familiar with the tradition
                    of good government, but not with the administrative details that must be worked out to make it run
                    smoothly. Trial and error was the most popular formula.
            Finding a suitable place to hold the meetings of the County Council was in itself a problem; the
                    commissioners met sometimes at Seth Woodruff's tavern, sometimes at the Presbyterian
                    church, and sometimes at Sheriff James Besse's office. A courthouse was planned, the
                    designer having received ten dollars for his share in the project, but it was offered for sale
                    before completion. In 1822, another building was projected at a cost of nine thousand dollars, and
                    the confusion resulting from this project was in part responsible for the threatened removal of the
                    county government from the town of New 
                        Albany
                    . The gravity of the situation is manifested in this excerpt from the record.
                    "Whereas the County Commissioners at the present Term, have been sued with a mandamus from
                    the Circuit Court of the County to show cause why they have not instituted suit against those
                    persons who undertook with them & have neglected to build the public buildings for our said
                    County of Floyd in New 
                        Albany
                    —Therefore, the Commissioners do hereby constitute and appoint William P. and
                    Joel D. Thompson, attorneys at law, to institute an action either at Law or Chancery. …
                    to prosecute in behalf of the County against said undertakers who have failed to comply with their
                    contract for building said public buildings."20
            
            
               
                  20 Minutes of the Commissioners of 
                            Floyd County
                        , February 15, 1820, to February 21, 1821, pp. 58–129. This volume of
                        early county records is in the 
                            Floyd County
                         Historical Society Collection. Ibid., February 15, 1820, p. 58;
                            ibid., August 13, 1822, p. 179.
            
            
            Just what issues were involved in the courthouse trouble are not clear, but the state government
                    stepped into the melee with plans to relocate the county seat. "They [a group of citizens
                    from surrounding counties] are hereby appointed commissioners to re-locate the seat of justice of 
                        Floyd County
                    …. That all grants or donations, which may have been heretofore made, to
                    establish the seat of justice of 
                        Floyd County
                    , at the town of New 
                        Albany
                    , whether in town lots, land or other property, shall be restored to the grantors or
                    donors thereof. That the contractors and undertakers to build a court house and jail, for said
                    county at New 
                        Albany
                    , shall be, and are hereby discharged from any obligation to perform the
                        same."21
            
            Greenville, a village twelve miles from New 
                        Albany
                     on the 
                        Vincennes
                     Road, was the next eligible place for the county seat. This town could boast of almost
                    as large a population as New 
                        Albany
                    , and it had the additional advantage of being more centrally located in the county.22
            
            Asahel Clapp, a prominent citizen and doctor of New 
                        Albany
                     who kept a diary during the early years, disclosed that the outside commissioners had
                    some trouble in making up their minds as to whether or not the seat should be moved. A month after
                    the initial controversy he revealed that the New 
                        Albany
                     people had managed to raise $1,454.00 in cash, plus $1,500.00 in real estate, to swing
                    the decision in favor of New 
                        Albany
                    .23 The investigators were well paid for their decision: instead of
                    the customary one dollar per day paid to officials of the county, they received three dollars per
                    day during their period of "investigation." The first cash raised from the sale of
                    the donated lots went to pay these outsiders who chose in favor of New 
                        Albany
                    .24 Thus the county seat was secured for the town, 
                  
                     21
                            Laws of Indiana, 1822–1823, pp. 103–5.
                  
                     22 Ernest V. Shockley, "County Seats and County Seat
                            Wars," Indiana Magazine of History, X (1914), 1–46.
                            The Indiana Gazetteer for 1826 listed Greenville as the county seat of 
                                Floyd County
                            , but there was no evidence in the County Minutes that any session was ever held
                            there. Indiana Gazetteer, or Topographical Dictionary … in the State
                                of Indiana (Centreville, 1826), 60.
                  
                     23 Asahel Clapp, Diary, 9. A copy of this diary is in. the 
                                Floyd County
                             Historical Society Collection, New 
                                Albany
                             Public Library. The original diary is in the possession of the Indiana Medical
                            Association. Clapp was the town's leading physician for about three decades. He
                            donated seventy-five dollars in labor and materials to the cause. One account stated that he
                            married a Scribner sister and another, a daughter of Joel.
                  
                     24 Minutes of the Commissioners of 
                                Floyd County
                            , May 13, 1823, p. 220.
               
                     and this crisis in its early development was safely bridged.25
            
            The dispute shows that the early county officials, mostly New 
                        Albany
                     men, were apathetic in their governing duties and had the tendency to let matters ride
                    until they almost got out of hand. Perhaps the real significance of the dispute lies in the fact
                    that New 
                        Albany
                    's river position was not yet sufficiently honored to give it uncontested
                    predominance over the interior towns.
            Expenses for running the various governments which held jurisdiction over the settlement at New 
                        Albany
                     were not great, but there were taxes and all the problems accompanying their levy and
                    collection. In addition to the poll tax of fifty cents, the assessors levied chiefly on land,
                    chattels, and personal luxuries. In 1819, the state land taxes were "For every one hundred
                    acres of first rate land one dollar, for every one hundred acres of second rate land Eighty seven
                    and a half cents, and for every acre of third rate land Sixty two & a half cents."
                    County taxes at the same time were 50 cents for first rate land, 43 3/4 cents for second, and 31 1/4
                    for third.26 It is conceivable that there were times when owner and assessor
                    differed as to what was first, second, and third rate.
            Holders of town lots paid 50 cents on each one hundred dollar valuation, while an owner of a horse
                    paid 37 1/2 cents for this privilege. Tavern keepers received licenses for fifteen or twenty
                    dollars, and ferryboatmen for five to twenty dollars. Servants were strictly luxuries. "For
                    every body servant above the age of twelve years other than an apprentice, three
                        dollars."27
            
            In 1823 and 1824 the county commissioners found new items to tax. "One dollar and twenty
                    five cents on each pleasure carriage of four wheels—One dollar on each pleasure carriage
                    of Two wheels—Fifty cents on each Gold Watch—Twenty five cents on each Silver
                    watch and twenty five cents on each work ox over 3 yr old. … On each Brass Clock one
                    Dollar. On each … Pinchback watch Twenty five cents."28
            
            
               
                  25
                        
                            Jeffersonville
                        , New 
                            Albany
                        's sister town up the river, was not so fortunate. The 
                            Clark County
                         seat of government was moved from there to the more prosperous interior town of 
                            Charlestown
                        , where it remained until September 23, 1873. Shockley, "County Seats and
                        County Seat Wars," Indiana Magazine of History, X, 2.
               
                  26 Minutes of the Commissioners of 
                            Floyd County
                        , May 18, 1819, pp. 24–25.
               
                  27
                  Ibid., May 18, 1819, pp. 24–25, 29.
               
                  28
                        Ibid., May 13,1823, p. 219; and February 11, 1824, p. 259.
            
            
            Total county taxes for 1819 amounted to $803.29, while licenses and fees brought in another $251.11
                    1/4. Many of the citizens were land-poor, for there were forty-three on the 1821 list of delinquent
                    county taxes, and twenty more for town levies. Mistakes in bookkeeping were patiently rectified.
                    When Frederick Leatherman was assessed for a horse he did not own, he protested and was refunded 37
                    1/2 cents.29
            
            Typical of the men who came to the forefront in the town as the Scribners faded out of the picture
                    were Seth Woodruff and Charles Paxson. Woodruff had the versatility so often associated with leaders
                    in frontier communities. He was a magistrate, tavern keeper, harness seller, bricklayer, and Baptist
                    preacher. His prominence is verified by the number of times his name appears in the county records.
                    He was energetic and economical, and had little appreciation for those who were otherwise. One of
                    his favorite practices was to donate glass for new church windows—if the members of the
                    congregations agreed to give up tobacco for one year. He boasted that he furnished them with all the
                    light they had. Seth was just the sort of fellow to add plenty of zest and occasional turmoil to the
                    newly established community. To his fellow citizens he was customarily known as
                    "Judge." In later years he was revered as "Father Woodruff."30
            
            Charles Paxson, a settler from 
                        Philadelphia
                    , was a merchant-miller who succeeded in the very ventures in which the Scribners
                    failed. By 1819 he had his own steamboat, the "
                        Cincinnati
                    ," which ran in the 
                        Louisville
                     trade. M'Murtrie noted that in New 
                        Albany
                     in 1819 the "only public works of any description that are worth notice, is
                    the steam grist and saw mill, belonging to Messrs. Paxton and Smith."31
                    When Thomas Hulme passed through the town about this time, he thought that New 
                        Albany
                     and Paxson were almost synonomous: "A Mr. Paxton, I am told, is the proprietor
                    of a great part of the town, and had the grist and sawmills … and the ferry across the
                        river."32 In spite of the prestige that must have come with being
                    the most prosperous man in town, Paxson was not too dignified to build a fence around the local dog
                    pound for 
                  
                     29
                     Ibid., November 10, 1819, pp. 46–48;
                            and March 13, 1821, p. 134.
                  
                     30 A biographical sketch of this 
                                New Jersey
                             settler can be found in the New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger, November 3, 1852.
                  
                     31 M'Murtrie, Sketches of 
                                    Louisville
                                 and Its Environs, 203, 167.
                  
                     32 Reuben G. Thwaites (ed.), Early Western Travels,
                                1748–1846 (32 vola., 
                                Cleveland
                            , 1904–1907), X (1904), 44.
               
                     twenty dollars.33 He died in the early
                    1820's of yellow fever while on a trading mission to 
                        New Orleans
                    .34 He was but one of the earlier representatives of that group of
                    enterprising traders who succeeded in giving New 
                        Albany
                     prominence as a retail and wholesale trading center in the years to follow.
            
               
                  33 Minutes of the Commissioners of 
                            Floyd County
                        , November 10, 1819, p. 47.
               
                  34 Ford, History of the 
                                Ohio
                             Falls Cities, II, 221.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            Early English Shoppers in 
                        Princeton
                    
            
            
                    Leonora Paxton Miller*
               
                
            Any one familiar with the history of Indiana in the early eighteen hundreds will recognize the names
                    of Morris Birkbeck, his friend, George Flower, and Flower's cousin, Elias Pym Fordham.
                    They traveled through the southern part of the territory in 1817 and 1818, as Birkbeck related in
                    his well-known book, Notes on a Journey in America from the Coast of 
                            Virginia
                         to the Territory of 
                            Illinois
                        : 1818. With a party of ten, they came overland from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                     and thence to 
                        Princeton
                    , which they made their headquarters for several months, Flower from July, 1817, to
                    September, 1817, Birkbeck from July, 1817, to January, 1819, Fordham from July, 1817, until May,
                    1822. Their stay in 
                        Princeton
                     was not continuous but was interrupted by various trips, to the 
                        Prairie
                     in southern 
                        Illinois
                    , and elsewhere.
            Another Englishman, a self-styled "farmer," named William Faux who came to this
                    same territory in 1819, also wrote in his book, Memorable Days in America, about
                    his stay in "Prince Town" and his visits to his English friends, John Ingle,
                    Saunders Hornbrook, Charles Phillips, James Maidlow and others who had settled in the neighborhood.
            Additional information about these travelers besides that given in their books and letters home may
                    be found in three ledgers of 
                        Princeton
                     business firms of the period that are still extant. They are sturdy leather-bound
                    folios in excellent condition; the paper is of the old-time quality, the writing is for the most
                    part in a fine flowing hand, in a strong black ink, clear, and easily legible. Two of these, the
                    oldest, are the daybooks of Jones and Stockwell, the largest general store of the day in 
                        Princeton
                    ; they are Ledgers A and B and extend from November 28, 1815, to May 8, 1924, totaling
                    1,346 closely written pages. The other is the Ledger of Basil Brown 's Tavern in 
                        Princeton
                    , first licensed in 1814; it is Ledger C, covering the years from January 1, 1819, to
                    March 16, 1822, and consists of 360 pages.
            
               
                  * Leonora Paxton Miller is a resident of 
                            Princeton
                        , Indiana. She also has the distinction of being a descendant of a pioneer family in
                        that town.
            
            
            
                    It is unfortunate that Ledgers A and B of the Tavern are not available for it was an outstanding
                        hostelry from its beginning and many well-known names are on its register, whose accounts have
                        been brought down from Ledger B. Among these may be mentioned Frederick Rapp (usually spelled
                        Wrapp) of Harmonie, Toussaint Du Bois, for whom 
                            Dubois County
                         was named, William Harrington, first Judge of 
                            Gibson County
                        , General 
                            Washington
                         Johnston, remembered for his fight to keep slavery out of the state, William
                        Jerauld, first secretary of the Masonic Lodge and his brother, Dutee, who had brought their
                        father out from 
                            Rhode Island
                        ; he was Dr. Gorton Jerauld, who had served as surgeon in the Revolution and was a
                        descendant of Samuel Gorton of pre-Revolutionary fame; Major David Robb, whose son Achilles was
                        the first white child born in the county; Major James Smith, aide-de-camp to General William H.
                        Harrison at 
                            Tippecanoe
                        , later a member of the state Constitutional Convention of 1816 and commissioner of
                        education; Captain William Prince, county agent, member of the legislature, who gave his name to
                        the town, and many others with military titles. There had been many volunteers from the county
                        for the war with the Indians and when Captain Jacob Warrick was killed on the battlefield, he
                        was sincerely mourned by the militia under him, the so-called 
                            Warrick
                        's Rangers. Perhaps some of his popularity was extended to his sister,
                        who was the wife of Basil Brown, owner of the Tavern. She was said to be a wonderful, cook, and
                        the Tavern had more than a local reputation for good fare. Fees for its services were fixed by
                        law: "25 cents for a meal, 12 1/2 for bed and 12 1/2 cents for horsekeep over
                        night." But a note on the fly-leaf of the Ledger warns that "Boarding was rose
                        to 3 dollars on week on the 10th of May, 1819." 
                            Princeton
                        's advantageous position halfway between 
                            Vincennes
                         and 
                            Evansville
                        , and on the line of traffic east and west brought it plenty of business; stages
                        changed horses here and waiting travelers exchanged news. On the fly leaf was also written,
                        "Settled with the 
                            Henderson
                         post rider on the 6th July, 1819" and "James Foiles contracted
                        the 1st day of January, 1820 for thirty nine dollars for one years keep of a man and horse one
                        night a week to carry the mail from 
                            Vincennes
                         to Shawneetown before me this day. Alex Nicoll, witness." "1820,
                        12th Feby one night extra on account of high water." The name of Mathias Mounce, who
                        carried the first mail on foot over the old 
                            Buffalo
                         Trace through 
                            Dubois County
                         is not on the Tavern books, though he was a regular customer of Jones and
                            Stockwell.1
               
                    Not only did the Tavern attract travelers; it was popular with the local people as well and seems
                        to have served as their favorite cocktail bar for years; a list of its customers would almost be
                        identical with a list of the county's inhabitants—the men, that is, for
                        almost no women are mentioned. Thomas Archer bought breakfast once for "self and
                        wife." The Archer family had freed the four slaves brought with them when they came
                        from 
                            South Carolina
                         in 1807 and so perhaps he felt he owed his wife one free breakfast.2 Mrs. Lora Chandler rented the ball 
                     
                        1 Jones and Stockwell Ledgers, August 15, 1816, passim.
                     
                        2 The names of the slaves were Sampson, his wife, Eve, and two
                                children, Rachel and Mitch, who had been freed on April 17, 1816. 
                                    Gibeon County
                                , Indiana, Deed Record Book B, 123. On the flyleaf of the Jones and
                                Stockwell Daybook was the following note: "Racheal commenced washing 1st Dec
                                1818 at $1.25 per month."
                  
                         room in 1820, February 15 to April 11; her total bill for
                        board, horse keep and numerous drinks amounted to $129.75 1/4, which she paid in cash and
                        credits for several "Schollars"; also by "musick,"
                            $10.00.3 But the Tavern was mostly a man's world. 
                            "He drinks his cup with merry, merry glee
                            And never, never thinks of me."
                         Drinks were served in great variety in the decanters and "engraved wine
                        glasses" which Jones and Stockwell's books show that Basil Brown bought from
                        them. Peach brandy was the favorite; it was made locally and was bought by the barrel; also
                        whisky, domestic wine, Madeira wine, gin, porter, egg nog, punch, mint sling, cherry bounce,
                        sangaree, apple "todda," —and two men at different times ordered
                        lemonade. "Segars" could also be had, "1/2 doz. for 37 1/2
                        cents." Basil Brown had bought a "Bagammon Box" for $9.00 in May
                        1817. He bought flour at 3 cents a lb., pork at 3 cents, beef at 4 cents, bacon 12 1/2 cents,
                        butter 12 1/2 cents, eggs 6 cents a dozen, 1/2 dozen chickens, 50 cents, a
                        "turkie," 25 cents, a "venison and 3 pairs of hams" for
                        $2.75; he paid Jones $10.00 a month for the hire of Anthony, "yellow man."
                    There is no picture extant of the Tavern; it stood on the southwest corner of the Courthouse
                        square, across the street from Jones and Stock-well's store. It was
                        a two-story log structure, with a one-story annex or ell, containing the dining room which
                        served on occasion as a ballroom. Balls were given here at frequent intervals, the first one in
                        the Ledger being that held on December 25, 1818; it was always referred to as the "Ball
                        on 25th December," never as the "Christmas Dance." In fact, the word
                        Christmas only occurred once in the three volumes; that was when in 1817 Dr. Joel F. Casey
                        bought "two small books for Christmas gifts, 50 cents." In 1815 the store did
                        a good business on December 25:
                    
                  
                     To L pair spectacles 8/3
                     
                  
                  
                     To 2 Boys wool hats 9/2
                     3.00
                  
                  
                     To 1 Coffee Pot 6/
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     To 1 Almanac 9d.12
                     1/2
                  
                  
                     To 1 pair Russian sandles 16/6
                     .275 and so on.
                  
               
                    The ball on December 25, 1818, was not the first one, however; some of the participants were
                        still paying for the one held in February of 1817, and in 1819 there were balls on March 17, May
                        4, July 6, and December 28, and at least as many in the years following. It was possible to tell
                        from the Ledger just who went to each ball, and how much it cost him; the amounts paid to
                        "Ball Club" or to "Club at Ball" vary from $1.50 to $4.00 or
                        $4.50 or $6.62 1/2, a large sum to squander on one evening's entertainment,
                        considering the cost of other things; house rent for 1 month, $5.00, for instance.
                    Conspicuous among those who went to almost every ball are the young bachelors who boarded at the
                        Tavern, professional men mostly, such as Dr. Foster, Dr. Waters, and Dr. Joel Casey, whose bills
                        for medical attendance came to light in Jones and Stockwell's books. Dr. Casey bought
                        the best of men's wear from them, "fine vest patern and trimmings, 2.50
                        great coat, $30.00, superfine crevat, $2.50" and frequently replenished his stock of
                        fiddle strings. There were lawyers such as J. E. 
                     
                        3 She may have taught dancing.
                  
                         R. Goodlet, Richard Daniel, and Judge David Hart, whose wit
                        and charm, as well as his threadbare elbows and shabby high white hat were vividly portrayed in
                        Faux's book of travels. He had bought the hat for $6.00 along with a pair of gloves,
                        $1.00, from Jones and Stockwell, August 17, 1816 but no hat-cover ($1.00) to protect it, as so
                        many men had; and though even then he must have needed a new coat, he did not buy it ($27.62
                        1/2) until September 9, 1817, having in the meantime, May 29, 1817, succumbed to the temptation
                        to buy a copy of
                    
                  
                     Leigh Hunt's Poems
                     $2.50
                  
                  
                     Lord Birons do
                     .75
                  
               
                    It was not until May of 1819, that he spent five dollars for a breast pin to wear on the great
                        coat, buying at the same time a "coppy of Modern Chivalry."
                    The exact date on which Faux drank and talked at the Tavern as described by Faux with Judge Hart,
                        Charles Phillips, General Robert M. Evans and "the cunning Caledonian" Alex.
                        Nicoll, the barkeeper, can be found in the Tavern Ledger as well as who paid for the drinks; it
                        was General Evans, most fittingly perhaps, as he was the oldest man present, had long been an
                        inhabitant of 
                            Princeton
                         and owned a considerable part of it.
                    Regular attendants at the balls also included the prosperous merchant, John Brownlee and his
                        brothers, Hugh and James; the two sons of Judge Harrington, and Colonel John Neely, first
                        postmaster; Robert Stockwell, always present; and Stockwell's partner, James W.
                        Jones, occasionally. In 1816 the partners each paid into the firm the sum of.75 for
                        "Fandango," which the dictionary defines as a term once used in the Middle
                        West for a "noisy frolic"; in March 1817, Stockwell fined Jones 50 cents for
                        "profane swearing" and apparently they were not too compatible, for on May 7,
                        1820, the partnership was dissolved, Jones went into the wholesale business with other men
                        (Jones, Harrison, Jones and Chandler) in 1822, and Stockwell carried on alone.4
               
                    No dictionary defines a "caledo," for which tickets at 25 cents each were sold
                        both by the Tavern and various merchants on April 8, 1820, as well as tickets to see the
                        "Lion and Ellefunt," also 25 cents on August 14, 1820. Some special
                        celebration seems to have taken place in the spring of 1819, for in early April of that year one
                        finds that James K. Sloan, a county official, bought 1 cockade and eagle for $1.00; 1 whip,
                        $2.00; J. E. R. Goodlet (lawyer) bought a cockade for $1.00; Asa Mills, a plume,.75; Charles
                        Jones, a plume for $1.50; Will Phillips, a sword belt for $16.00; while General Evans bought 
                     
                        1 Whip
                        $2.00
                     
                     
                        1 large Plume
                        $3.00
                     
                     
                        2 yds gold lace 22/6 for
                        $7.50
                     
                     
                        1 Gold Cockade
                        $1.25
                     
                     
                        1 pair superfine suspenders,
                        $3.00
                     
                  
                        
                     
                        4 Thus it came about that when Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                 came to 
                                    Princeton
                                 as a boy of fifteen to bring wool to the carding mill, he saw on the gold
                                lettered sign over the door the single name, "Robert Stockwell,
                                Merchant." "
                                    Lincoln
                                's Memories of 
                                    Princeton
                                , Indiana," 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                        Lincoln
                                     Lore, February 18, 1952.
                  
                         making a total of $16.75. While the next day he bought 1
                        pair silk gloves for 1 dollar more.
                    
                  
                     
                     3d June 1819
                  
                  
                     Col. John I. Neely 1 pr. Apulets
                     36.00
                  
                  
                     1 Eagle & Cockade
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     
                     37
                  
               
                    Robert Stockwell, about the same time, bought "1 sword 18.00 1 Appulet 10.00, 1 Belt
                        8.00 Add 20 pr ct 7.20;" totals 43.20. Johnson FitzJerauld bought 1 sword belt for
                        $16.00, to be paid in 60 days. On the same date General W. Johnston bought a keg of oysters for
                        $6.00, while Basil Brown bought not only a keg of oysters for $5.00 but 1 1/4 box of
                        "segars" for $4.50.
                    What all this finery was for does not appear: it was a little early for his admirers to be
                        preparing for the dinner proffered to General Harrison, for that did not take place until June
                        9, 1821. It cost $1.25 a plate and according to the Tavern records, there were fifty-six guests.
                        General Harrison was not very popular at this time; he was much criticized for having made his
                        son land agent at 
                            Vincennes
                        , and naturally the son was criticized for the way he managed the office; but 
                            Gibson County
                         could not forget the war with Tecumseh, and their old commander, so the dinner was,
                        in effect, a vindication of him. One man, at least, made money out of it; Andrew Ralston
                        received $1.37 1/2 for shoeing the General's horse.
                    In contrast to all this frivolity, Jones and Stockwell's books show a more serious,
                        not to say philanthropic side; many Bibles were bought, from a 75 cent pocket Testament to a 12
                        dollar Family Bible as well as many volumes of sermons, and hymnbooks, though history was
                        equally popular (Benedict's History, 7.50, History of War, 3.00, Life of General 
                            Putnam
                        , Life of Patrick Henry, 4.50, Ancient and Modern History, 2.00,
                        Plutarch's Lives, 9.25, Life of Nelson, many copies of the Life of Napoleon sold in
                        1818, and so on); a chapter could be written on the subject. There is charity, too; $2.00 paid
                        to Parson Kell; 12 1/2 to camp meeting, $10 "subscription to Widow Hickman."
                        Widow Leathers aroused a special sympathy; her young husband had died one hot August day after a
                        prolonged fight which had started with an argument with an equally strong young neighbor. In
                        December of the same year (1819) Basil Brown bought 1 pair 1 "pint" blankets
                        $3.75 for Widow Leathers; Robert Milburn bought "3 yards domestic cotton
                        $1.25" for the widow. And Judge David Hart gave her a subscription of $2.50. A knife
                        was bought by Jas. K. Sloan for Old Daniel; a "shall" was bought for Old Ann.
                        In short, another chapter could be written about the colored people: Lucy, "yellow
                        woman," bought a dictionary for $1.50; Black Rachel, an "ombrilla"
                        for $4.50.
                    Although the court records show many marriage licenses issued during this ten-year period, no
                        hint of them crept out in the ledgers, except when one knew the date of a wedding, he would find
                        that the groom as well as the bride bought new clothes about that time. There were, however,
                        many indications of sickness and death; "Barks for Mother," "Bottle
                        of Bitters"; "Antinomial Wine"; bottle of
                        "Nature's Grand Restorative" as well as "1/4 dozen coffin
                        screws 12 1/2, 5 yds Cambrick for  shroud, 4.50, 6 yds cambk
                        for winding sheet, pair white kid shoes, pair white gloves, 1 bedcord, mourning robe for
                        Margarette, 4.25." All of these were especially frequent in the terrible summer of
                        1822.
                    In spite of these periods of trial and sorrow, the general atmosphere of the community was one of
                        gay courage: there were very few stern and rock-bound people here; most of the inhabitants were
                        young and found life a joyous adventure.
                    It was into such a typically American scene that Morris Birkbeck and his party came in July,
                        1817. They went to Brown 's Tavern and continued to board there while occupying their
                        rented house. On February 21, 1818, Birkbeck paid through Jones and Stockwell his Tavern bill to
                        date, $394.41 and other payments were made later. The party consisted of Birkbeck, 54, his two
                        sons, Bradford, 16, and Charles, 14; his daughters, Eliza, 19, and Prudence, 16. In addition,
                        were Elizabeth Garton, an orphan-servant girl and another servant "Gillard."
                        Elias Pym Fordham, 29, was also with them, but George Flower, 29, and his bride, the former
                        Eliza Julia Andrews, 25, were not They had been married in 
                            Vincennes
                         a few days previously by Elihu Stout,5 printer and justice of
                        the peace, and were enjoying a short honeymoon before rejoining their companions in 
                            Princeton
                        .6
               
                    The story of this marriage and the consequent quarrel and prolonged estrangement that followed it
                        have been related by others and need not be dwelt on here. If it is true that the warfare
                        between the two men was due to Birkbeck's resentment of the fact that Miss Andrews
                        had refused his offer of marriage, only to accept that of George Flower a little later, it was
                        not apparent at the time; the affront, if any, was glossed over and it was not until the
                        following year on Flower's return from 
                            England
                         that the break occurred.
                    "While I sat musing, the fire burned; then spake I with my tongue."
                    When the Flowers arrived in 
                            Princeton
                        , they all seemed on excellent terms; the first appearance of their names in Jones
                        and Stockwell show that Eliza Birkbeck and Mrs. Flower went across the street, shopping together
                        on July 23, 1817, and Mrs. Flower charged to her husband
                    
                  
                     1 kettle
                     5.00
                  
                  
                     3 yds Leano muslin 4/6
                     2.25
                  
                  
                     2 Tincups 9d
                     .25
                  
                  
                     1/4 yds Cloth 10/6
                     .43 3/4
                  
                  
                     10 1/4 yds Calico 3/9
                     6.41
                  
                  
                     14 lb Indigo 24/
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     
                     15.34 3/4
                  
               
                    On the line following, one reads:
                    Mr.——–Birkbeck per Dtr Eliza. Dr
                    To 1/2 yd cassimere 13/6 1.12 1/2
                    
                  
                     5 The name of Elihu Stout appeared in the Jones and Stockwell, Ledger,
                            on August 4, 1818.
                  
                     6 George Flower, History of the English Settlement in 
                                    Edwards County
                                , 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882), 47–48, 56, 112. See also Jane Rodman, "The English
                            Settlement in Southern 
                                Illinois
                            , 1815–1825," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), XLIII (1947), 329–62.
               
                    
                    And immediately following is
                    
                  
                     George Flower, per Lady Dr
                     
                  
                  
                     To 1 Looking Glass
                     2.25
                  
               
                    Evidently they were just leaving the store when Mrs. Flower spied the looking glass and had to
                        have it.
                    
                  
                     July 24th, George Flower per Lady Dr
                     
                  
                  
                     To 1 doz Leano Shalls 3/
                     6.00
                  
                  
                     1/2 doz Brass nobs 3/
                     .25
                  
                  
                     July 26 Mr.——Birkbeck per Dtr Eliza, Dr
                  
                  
                     To 2 doz Moulds 4 1/2
                     .12 1/2
                  
               
                    (These must be button moulds; candle moulds cost more.)
                    And on the same date
                    George Flower per girl Dr
                    To 1 yd brown Holland 3/.50
                    It should be noted that Morris Birkbeck was called
                        Mr.————-Birkbeck, without Christian name, contrary
                        to the usual custom of the store; the entries continued thus until September 27, 1817, when
                        Maurice was used, then Morris, until it finally reverted to Mr. Birkbeck again.
                    Also to be noted; cost price of articles was given in shillings and pence, with plenty of
                        nippences on every page (Jas. K. Sloan bought "17 nippences 1.50" on August
                        19, 1819); but the selling price was given in dollars and cents; this method continued in Jones
                        and Stockwells books until 1821, when both were in the decimal system. The bookkeeper had
                        difficulty with it though, and often reverted to the old way. 4$ was the order often used and
                        even 402$cts. In May 1822: "By cash received of
                        Alex.
                    
                  
                            Brown
                         and sons, in 
                            Baltimore
                         £32: 10.00 $144.30."
                    On July 28, 1817 Mrs. Flower went again to the store and bought
                    
                  
                     16 yds calico 3/9
                     10.00
                  
                  
                     12 " worsted binding 4d
                     .75
                  
                  
                     8 " Cotten 3/
                     4.00
                  
                  
                     1 Water Ladle
                     .50
                  
                  
                     
                     15.25
                  
               
                    On July 29, she bought
                    
                  
                     2 yds Leano 4/6
                     1.50
                  
                  
                     2 " Red Cambk 3/9
                     1.25
                  
                  
                     1 doz Brass Knobs 3/
                     .50
                  
                  
                     2 small mugs 1/6
                     .50
                  
                  
                     1/2 doz Tumblers 9/
                     .75
                  
                  
                     1 Looking glass
                     1.75
                  
                  
                     
                     6.25
                  
               
                    Evidently she wanted plenty of looking glasses.
                    
                  
                     July 30 George Flower, per Lady
                     
                  
                  
                     To 1 Hamer 4/6
                     .75
                  
                  
                     July 30 and per servant
                     
                  
                  
                     1/2 yd Red Camk muslin 3/9
                     .31 3/4
                  
               
                    It seems she didn't get quite enough cambric the day before.
                    
                    July 30 Mr. Birkbeck per Dtr.
                    
                  
                     To 1/2 doz Tumblers
                     .75
                  
                  
                     2 paste boards 9d
                     .25
                  
               
                    Some one apparently needed a new bonnet as well as a new dress.
                    July 31 Birkbeck sent $19.25 in cash by his daughter and bought "per Mrs.
                        Flower"
                    
                  
                     4 yds cambrick 3/9
                     2.50
                  
                  
                     While George Flower sent his "servant" for
                     
                  
                  
                     8 1/2 pint tumblers 9d
                     1.00 and
                  
                  
                     3 cotton rugs 4/6
                     2.25
                  
               
                    August 1, 1817 Mrs. Flower bought quite a lot of things
                    
                  
                     12 yds cambk 3/9
                     7.50
                  
                  
                     5 " green Baize 6/9
                     5.62 1/2
                  
                  
                     2 Vegetable Dishes 6/
                     2.00
                  
                  
                     1/2 1000 Tacks 4/6
                     0.37 1/2
                  
                  
                     2 Vegetable Dishes 4/6
                     1.50
                  
                  
                     2 do do 3/9
                     1.25
                  
                  
                     4 1/2 Pint Bowls 1/6
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     6 do Brown do 1/10 1/2
                     1.87 1/2
                  
                  
                     1 Quart Tumbler 3/
                     .50
                  
                  
                     2 Gallon Bowls 7/6
                     2.50
                  
                  
                     2 " Pitchers 6/
                     2.00
                  
                  
                     
                     26.12 1/2
                  
               
                    and on the same day sent the "servant" for
                    
                  
                     2 yds green Baize 6/9
                     2.25
                  
                  
                     2 saucers 9d
                     .25
                  
               
                    
                  
                     August 2 Mr. Berbeck [sic] per Mrs. Flower Dr.
                     
                  
                  
                     To 1 pair Tin Candlesticks
                     .75
                  
                  
                     To 1 pair Iron Candlesticks
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     
                     1.75
                  
               
                    August 2 George Flower per Lady Dr
                    
                  
                     To 1 pr Iron Candlestocks
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     To 1 pr Snuffers 3/9
                     .62 1/2
                  
                  
                     
                     1.62 1/2
                  
               
                    On August 4 A new name appeared
                    
                  
                     George Flower per "Mr. Fordham'' Dr.
                     
                  
                  
                     To 1 Gunlock
                     5.00
                  
               
                    August 5 George Flower Dr.
                    
                  
                     To 1 pair Andirons 45 lbs at 10 cts
                     4.50
                  
                  
                     Handage
                     .25
                  
               
                    August 7 Mr. Berbeck per boy Dr.
                    
                  
                     To 1 clothesline 2/3
                     .37 1/2
                  
                  
                     1/2 lb nails 1/6
                     .12 1/2
                  
                  
                     
                     .50
                  
               
                    At intervals during August, 1817, George Flower bought a variety of household supplies and
                        implements, sometimes per "Giliard," sometimes per Lady, sometimes per self.
                    
                    
                  
                     4 nutmegs 9d
                     .50 (grated nutmeg
                  
                  
                     pepper, ginger, 2 lbs sugar
                     1.00 was much used
                  
                  
                     5 lbs loaf sugar
                     2.50 in drinks)
                  
                  
                     8 Patty pans
                     1.50
                  
                  
                     2 do do
                     .25
                  
                  
                     2 do do
                     .75
                  
                  
                     2 Plowlines
                     .75
                  
                  
                     1 "matock"
                     3.00
                  
                  
                     1 spade
                     2.00
                  
                  
                     1 Pruning knife
                     .87 1/2
                  
                  
                     1 pr. shovel and tongs
                     4.00
                  
                  
                     1 small iron pot
                     .31 1/4
                  
                  
                     1 shaving glass
                     .37 1/2
                  
                  
                     1 furniture Brush
                     .50
                  
                  
                     And on September 1 "Galiard" was sent for 1/2 dozen Best Gilt
                                buttons 6/
                     .50
                  
               
                    This was the last purchase made by the Flowers in 
                            Princeton
                        ; they left in September, he to return to 
                            England
                        , she to wait for him in a tavern in Chambersburg, 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , and apparently they never came back to 
                            Princeton
                        , though mail for them continued to be received there and they were charged with
                        postage at intervals. On August 25, 1818, George Flower was charged with
                    
                  
                     9 1/2 lb sad iron 1/6
                     2.37 1/4 and
                  
                  
                     4 lbs Coffee 3/
                     2.00
                  
               
                    September 24, 1818, Birkbeck per order was charged with "merchandise paid to George
                        Flower per bill, $24.50 and for barrel containing hardware.37 1/2."
                    "October 12, 1818 George Flower to cash paid Brownlee for apples Dr. 8.00 and for a
                        ladle.87 1/2.
                    December 16, 1 razor strop.50; 1 box emery paste.50."
                    May 4,1819, A final charge was made for Postage paid Neely $2.75.
                    George Flower's name did not appear on the Tavern register, though the bill for 394.41
                        due Brown to February 21, 1819 probably included Flower's expenses during the time
                        they were there.
                    After the Flowers departed, Birkbeck's account continued active throughout the fall
                        and winter, though for the most part the purchases were made per son Bradford or daughter Eliza
                        and the items were not particularly interesting; sugar, tallow, candle moulds, shovel and tongs,
                        writing paper and paper; he pays 4.93 3/4 for 44 1/4 lbs "pot mettle" and
                        "handage" for same; 4.50 for 2 pairs coarse shoes, 1.00 for hat cover and per
                        Stewart (a tailor) cloth, flannel and trimmings and draws various amounts of cash for himself
                        and per Fordham. The store in fact served its customers as a bank; the great scarcity of money
                        at the time led to the balancing of one account against another, which in turn provided detailed
                        information about each transaction. In only a few instances was a bill paid in specie, or in
                        silver, and only once or twice in gold; drafts on most banks were honored only for much less
                        than their face value; 
                            United States
                         notes and Western Reserve notes were among the few paid in full. Typical entries
                        are:
                    June 9, 1817 To cash in note 20.00 to be returned in silver, if to be had, in one month. 
                        
                            September 12,1820 To cash in round silver.25.
                            July 9,1821 To cut silver 2.00
                            July 11, 1821 To amt paid in round silver 1.87 1/2
                            November 1821 To silver when going to Corriden 20.00
                            May 8,1822 Credit by Gold, per son 35.00
                            May 22,1822 To cash in 
                                    Illinois
                                 note 5.00 2.50
                            May 24,1822 By one ten dollar 
                                    Illinois
                                 note 5.00
                            June 4,1822 By am't in Ky. paper 22.50 in specie at 62 1/2 14.00
                            March 3,1823 To 23$ 
                                    Illinois
                                 paper @ 43 1/4 cts 10.06 1/4
                        
               
                    In December, 1817, Birkbeck paid Tweedale, a farmer $80.00, and $3.00 more for hauling; and he
                        paid Mrs. Cushman $35.25 for sewing. This last item was rather large; a seamstress got only one
                        dollar for making a shirt; 50 cents for a flannel one; and it shows that whatever the Birkbeck
                        ladies had been doing during the summer, they had not spent all their time making up the yards
                        of material they had bought in July.
                    January 1, 1818 Mr. Birkbeck started the New Year by paying "6.00 for
                        Intelligencer." January 5, he drew $50.00 to buy Pork; also 30.00 and 20.00, purpose
                        unspecified.
                    January 12 He made per Brown a "subscription, 10.00 to Mrs. Hickman" (widow).
                        And January 15 he was charged with Cash at Shawneetown $16.00; he bought a hat (made at Milburn
                        and Sturgis) for $3.00 for Giliard and a slate for 87 1/2 "for do." January
                        17, he paid Cushman $5.00 (more sewing) and bought 100 "segars" for.50.
                    
                  
                     January
                     19
                     To cash paid E. P. Fordham
                     40.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     20
                     To cash paid Gen'l Wilson
                     19.00
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     To 1/2 barrel biscuit 3.57 1/2 1 barell 12 1/2
                     3.75
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     To Cash paid Charles
                     5.00
                  
                  
                     January
                     22
                     To Cash paid E. P. Fordham
                     60.00
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     To Cash per self
                     3.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     23
                     To Cash paid McClary for 12 bushels corn 2/3
                     4.50
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash paid Woodland
                     25.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     24
                     To Cash paid Whitman (shoemaker)
                     4.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     28
                     To 16 papers seeds
                     2.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     To 1 pr shoes for Bradford
                     2.50
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     To cash paid B. Cooke
                     2.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     To cash paid Anderson
                     21.00
                  
               
                    In February, he bought material for more clothes per Jacob Penfield, and paid him per Charles 10
                        dollars cash.
                    
                  
                     February
                     11,
                     1818
                     To Cash pd Nathan Nichols
                     5.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     16,
                     "
                     To bill smiths work per Hoge
                     4.25
                  
                  
                     "
                     17,
                     "
                     To Amt paid Stewart [tailor]
                     5.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     19,
                     "
                     To amt paid [Dr] Casey
                     8.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 1 pr shovel and Tongs
                     2.75
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 100 segars
                     .50
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash sent To Shawnee Town
                     224.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Postage pd Neely.50, Scissors per Galiard.37 1/2; 1 thimble.12 1/2
                      
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 1 smoothing iron 10 lbs @ 1/6
                     2.50
                  
                  
                     "
                     20,
                     "
                     To Cash pd Joseph R. Brown
                     7.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     21,
                     "
                     To Cash per Bradford
                     5.00
                  
                  
                  
                     "
                     24,
                     "
                     To Amt Browns acct To Feb. 21, 1818
                      
                  
                  
                      
                      
                      
                     [Tavern]
                     394.41
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 50 lbs iron per Hoge 1/
                     8.33 1/3
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash pd McClary
                     12.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Postage to Sullivan
                     1.25
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash
                     5.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 3/4 yds cloth for Puttees
                     2.62 1/2
                  
                  
                     March
                     3,
                     1818
                     To Cash pd Brasel Ton
                     10.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 4 lbs sugar 1/6 1.00
                      
                  
                  
                      
                      
                      
                     To 1 coffee pot 4/6.75
                     1.75
                  
                  
                     "
                     5,
                     "
                     Credit by Am't draft on Warder Bros
                     $2000.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash for Shawneetown
                     128.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 108 Lights Glass 9d
                     13.50
                  
                  
                     "
                     7,
                     "
                     To 2 whips 1/1/2 per Dtr.
                     .37 1/2
                  
                  
                     "
                     9,
                     "
                     To Cash pd Enoles
                     3.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash pd Jno Fleener
                     4.50
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 1 slate 4/ per Elizabeth
                     .75
                  
                  
                     "
                     11,
                     "
                     To Cash for Land Office
                     210.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 96 panes glass per Boicourt
                     12.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Am't paid McClary
                     16.41 1/2
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 16 1/2 bushels Corn
                     8.25
                  
                  
                     "
                     16,
                     "
                     To 7 yds linen
                     3.50
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Am't pd Little for sash
                     38.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash pd Harper for powder
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash for Land Office
                     22.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash per Daughters
                     40.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 24 1/2 lbs tallow 4.08, 2 yds linen 1.00
                      
                  
                  
                     "
                     17,
                     "
                     To Cash pd David Robb for flower
                     7.17
                  
                  
                     "
                     20,
                     "
                     To Cash for 2 bbls. crackers
                     11.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash per Charles
                     5.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     25,
                     "
                     To Caah pd Ebr Severns
                     6.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     26,
                     "
                     To 100 segars
                     .50
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash paid Redburn
                     14.43 3/4
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash paid McCleary
                     14.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash paid Wren for 20 bu. corn
                     10.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     28,
                     "
                     To Cash pd Brown for Wood
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash paid Roan for bacon
                     24.80
                  
                  
                     "
                     30,
                     "
                     To Amt pd Hoge's Acct work
                     27.37 1/2
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash pd Roan for sledges
                     7.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash pd Lanpher
                     4.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 4 Bedcords
                     2.50
                  
                  
                     April
                     1,
                     1818
                     To Amt pd McCleary
                     1.75
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To postage pd Neely
                     9.25
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 2 quires paper
                     .50
                  
                  
                     "
                     3,
                     "
                     To 1 quire paper
                     .50
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash per Bradford
                     5.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash per self
                     5.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash pd Robert Harper
                     5.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash pd Lanpher per order filed
                     10.50
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash pd Isaac Strain
                     1.50
                  
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 13 lbs wrought nails 1/10 1/2 4.06 1/4
                      
                  
                  
                      
                      
                      
                     To 6 lbs 4d nails 1/6
                     1.50
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 6 lbs 6d nails 1/6 1.50,
                      
                  
                  
                      
                      
                      
                     To 12 lbs 8d nails 1/6
                     3.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 12 lbs 10d Brads 1/6 3.00
                     Total 13.06 1/4
                  
                  
                     "
                     7,
                     "
                     To 4 lbs steel 2/3, 2 tincups a 9d,
                      
                  
                  
                      
                      
                      
                     1 qt measure, awl blades, curricomb etc.
                      
                  
                  
                     "
                     8,
                     "
                     To 4 lbs coffee per Harper @ 45 cts 1.80
                      
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     16 lbs coffee per self @ 45 cts 7.20
                      
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     Cash 10
                     19.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 16 yds searsucker 7/6
                     20.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash pd Legrange 3/ for potatoes
                     1.50
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash for Gilliard when going To Bom pas
                     5.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 1 bushel Aples (dried) 18/
                     3.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash pd Strain for hauling hay
                     2.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 1 horse
                     75.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 1 box wafers.12 1/2 Cash to post boy.12 1/2 100 Segars
                     .50
                  
                  
                     "
                     15,
                     "
                     To pd Jas Evans for plank
                     6.50
                  
                  
                     "
                     17,
                     "
                     To postage on letter to Shawneetown
                     .12 1/2
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash pd Doctr. T. Polke
                     80.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 2 Umbrillas 22/6
                     7.50
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash when going to 
                                    Prairie
                                
                     
                     45.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     21,
                     "
                     To 1 whip 18 3/4, 4 boxes wafers 1/6 Postage
                     4.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     23,
                     "
                     Per daughters, 2 pitchers 7/6 2.50 - 1 dish.50 2 vegetable dishes 3/9 -1.25,
                                2 do do a 4/6 1.50 1 cream.50 — 1 doz cups & saucers 9/set
                     - 3.00
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     1 sugar 1.00 6 Bowls a 3/ 3.00
                     13.25
                  
                  
                     "
                     27,
                     "
                     To 5 yds chambrey 7/6 per Dtr. E. 6. 25
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     1 yd check 3/9.62 1/2
                     6.87 1/2
                  
                  
                     "
                     30,
                     "
                     To 1 chisel 2.00,1 ball boss 9d.12 1/2, 1 bolt worsted binding.25
                      
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash pd Fordham per order dated 16th April
                     100.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash Sent to 
                                    Prairie
                                 by Galiard
                     250.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To do paid Col. Hargrove for Horse
                     80.00
                  
                  
                     May
                     1,
                     1818
                     To 1 paper onion seed 2/3 per Galiard
                     .12 1/2
                  
                  
                     "
                     4,
                     "
                     To Freight on 2 bbls Bisket to Eville
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     6,
                     "
                     To 6 yds cotton Chambrey 3/ 3.00
                      
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     1 1/2 yd lining 3/
                     .75
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 2 hanks thread 25.50 1 1/2 doz. Buttons 1/.25
                     4.50
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 1 Bay Mare
                     40.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     1 Sorrel Mare
                     80.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash sent by Gillard
                     150.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash for Gilliards expenses
                     1.50
                  
                  
                     "
                     11,
                     "
                     To Cash enclosed to Mr. Sloo [land agent at Shawneetown]
                     250.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To postage on letters to 
                                    England
                                
                     
                     .50
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash per Dtr Eliza
                     10.00
                  
                  
                  
                     "
                     12,
                     "
                     To Cash pd Mr. Woolford
                     30.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Buttons tape 8 Bed cords, ha ko silk, 2 yds linen Etc
                      
                  
                  
                     "
                     14,
                     "
                     To 1 Bay horse
                     45.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash by Mr Woolford
                     50.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Making 2 prs pants for Bradford per Stewart 7/6
                     2.50
                  
                  
                     "
                     19,
                     "
                     To curry comb (by Jim) 1/2 bushel salt, bridle bit, set buckles Etc.
                      
                  
                  
                     "
                     28,
                     "
                     To Cash per Dtr. Eliza
                     30.00
                  
                  
                     June
                     1,
                     1818
                     To Cash per Dtr. Prudence
                     10.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     4,
                     "
                     To Postage 2.25, 2 quires paper - tape 2 boss
                      
                  
                  
                     "
                     9,
                     "
                     To Cash per Dtr. P
                     30.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     2 quires paper
                     .37 1/2
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     3 lbs nails
                     .75
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     1 Tape
                     .25
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     2 hanks thred
                     .25
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     2 hose
                     .12 1/2
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     2 bags
                     3.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash per Dtr. E when going to 
                                    Henderson
                                
                     
                     20.00
                  
                  
                     
                                "
                            
                     13,
                     "
                     To Cash pd Carpenter for packing
                     1.25
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash Robert Harper
                     42.75
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 1 rope.50 - McGarah's bill for hauling
                     4.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     27,
                     "
                     To Cash pd for leading horse from 
                                    Henderson
                                
                     
                     2.00
                  
                  
                     July
                     2,
                     1818
                     To Cash pd Ben May per Harper
                     14.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash pd Jno Cleaveland per Harper
                     14.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash pd Mathew Kell per Harper
                     12.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash pd Jno McMillen per Harper
                     12.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Will. McCleary's acct
                     2.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     3,
                     "
                     To Cash for taking horse to 
                                    Henderson
                                
                     
                     2.00
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     + rope to lead him
                     2.18 3/4
                  
                  
                     "
                     6,
                     "
                     To 2 Bags per Galiard
                     3.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 1 Bag per Fordham
                     1.50
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash per Harper for postage
                     .50
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash per Harper when going to 
                                    Vincennes
                                 for plank
                     8.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     9,
                     "
                     To Cash per order filed paid Robt Mosely
                     39.35
                  
                  
                     "
                     11,
                     "
                     To amt per Harper 2 lbs coffee 3/ 100
                      
                  
                  
                      
                      
                      
                     To amt per Harper 2 lbs sugar 1/6 50
                      
                  
                  
                      
                      
                      
                     To 1 tin kettle 10/6 175
                     3.25
                  
                  
                      
                      
                      
                     To 1 ps Tick 54 yds a 95 cts
                     51.30
                  
                  
                     "
                     20,
                     "
                     To 1 Case for Packing furniture
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash per Daughter
                     15.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash per Dtr. Eliza
                     14.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 1 saddle Blanket per do
                     2.37 1/2
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 6 Bags 9/
                     9.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     26,
                     "
                     To pd Brown per dft. [Tavern]
                     188.57 1/2
                  
                  
                     "
                     29,
                     "
                     To Amt draft in favor Truesdale
                     100.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Amt Ralston's acct shoeing horse
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     August
                     4,
                     1818
                     To Amt paid Harper
                     42.00
                  
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Amt paid McGarah
                     50.68
                  
                  
                     "
                     6,
                     "
                     To Cash paid Truesdale
                     78.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     10,
                     "
                     To Postage pd Neely
                     4.37 1/2
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash Charles expenses
                     3.25
                  
                  
                     "
                     12,
                     "
                     To Ralston shoeing horse
                     .75
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 1 Bag containing Fruit
                     1.50
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Amt Walters Bill medicine
                     8.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 1 bottle.25 2 lbs copperas a 1/6 postage
                     
                  
                  
                     "
                     18,
                     "
                     To Cash pd McGarah per order
                     24.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     19,
                     "
                     To Cash per Harper pd Clevland & May
                     3.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     30,
                     "
                     To 1/4 lb Spanish Whiting 1/6 per Dtr. P
                     
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To 2 doz shirtbuttons, 2 doz mettle do. thread ribbon Etc
                     13.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash pd Tweedale per Harper [postage for Rotch]
                     2.25
                  
                  
                     September
                     12,
                     1818
                     To Amt pd Hoge for Boxes
                     3.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To postage
                     4.05 1/2
                  
                  
                     "
                     24,
                     "
                     To Mdse pd Geo. Flower per order per bill
                     24.50
                  
                  
                     "
                     29,
                     "
                     To Cash pd G. Humphries
                     105.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     30,
                     "
                     To Cash pd McGarah for corn
                     82.50
                  
                  
                     October
                     3,
                     1818
                     To Cash pd Boicourt for 1/2 Doz
                      
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     Chairs 28$
                     14.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash pd McMillen senr. for Corn
                     100.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     12,
                     "
                     To Cash pd Roach
                     10.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Cash pd for gun
                     30.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     14,
                     "
                     To Cash pd Lucas
                     32.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     17,
                     "
                     To 44 Lights sash 1/ Per Rotch 7.33 1/3
                      
                  
                  
                      
                      
                      
                     To 44 Panes Glass 9d 5.50
                      
                  
                  
                      
                      
                      
                     To Glaizing 44 Lights sash 4 1/2 2.75
                      
                  
                  
                      
                      
                      
                     To 1 Box containing sash 6/ 1.00
                     16.58 1/3
                  
                  
                     This must be the F. Rotch who came over with Flower to Albion.
                  
                  
                     November
                     5,
                     1818
                     To cash paid for corn crib
                     15.00
                  
                  
                     "
                     9,
                     "
                     To cash paid for hailing corn from McMillens
                     10.00
                  
                  
                      
                      
                      
                     To cash paid hand for 5 days
                     3.75
                  
                  
                      
                      
                      
                     To cash paid McMillen for hauling corn 2.75
                  
                  
                     "
                     23,
                     "
                     To 2 1/2 bus. Dried Aples 15/
                     6.25
                  
                  
                     "
                     "
                     "
                     To Barrel containing Aples
                     .25
                  
                  
                     "
                     30,
                     "
                     To R. M. Evans for hailing Pianoforte to Harmonie
                     9.00
                  
               
                    This may have been Miss Andrews' piano that Fordham had to "shepherd over the
                        mountains" in 1817 and could be the one now in the Flower collection in the 
                            Chicago
                         Museum of History. Where it was kept during those months in 
                            Princeton
                         is a mystery. Nothing is said of it in the Tavern Ledger though a note was made
                        that Saunders Hornbrook had agreed to supply and help install an organ for $100. No date is
                        given but it was 1819 or 1820. The Birkbecks must have left 
                            Princeton
                         soon after the piano did for there were only a few scattered entries thereafter. In
                        January, 1819, there was a bill of $5.75 paid to Arbuthnot the saddler. In May 1819, a bill of
                        87 1/2 cts "for carriage on 2 packages  from
                        "Phia." In January, 1822, a credit by cash "to purchase books in
                        Philadia. for self and Mr. Pell 30.00"; a bill of $1.00 "for carriage of
                        compass &c brot from Phia. in 1819." On May 24, 1822, there was charged
                    
                  
                     To 2 lbs Prunes for G. T. P.
                     68 3/4
                  
                  
                     To 1 MacMahan's Gardening
                     3.62 1/2
                  
                  
                     To 8 Nos. Edinb: g & Quarterly Reviews
                     8.00
                  
                  
                     carriage on same
                     .62 1/2
                  
                  
                     12.93 3/4
                  
                  
                     On May 28, 1823 1 1/2 ream paper
                     4.50
                  
                  
                     1 qure letter do
                     .37 1/2
                  
               
                    This was the last appearance of Birkbeck's name in Jones and Stockwell. The Tavern
                        accounts showed a bill for Sundries $10.12 1/2 in January, 1819, settled by cash in May of the
                        same year. "January 1, 1820 To Eichard Birkbeck's 9.06 1/4."7 In 1822, Morris Birkbeck Dr. to Cotillion Bill for son $1.84; this is the
                        last entry; neither of the last two was marked paid.
                    Morris Birkbeck was drowned in 1825 in the Fox River while returning to the English 
                            Prairie
                         from 
                            New Harmony
                        ; he was buried in 
                            New Harmony
                        .8 In 1832, according to the county history, "Mrs.
                        Berbeck" taught a term in a 
                            Princeton
                         private school, but the name is strange in the town today.9
               
                    The ledgers provide the same sort of outline for Elias Pym Fordham's life in 
                            Princeton
                         that they give of Birkbeck and Flower. At first he appeared mainly in conjunction
                        with them; after they both left, and he was on his own with a rented house and garden, he seemed
                        to play a more important role in the community. Dates of Fordham's stay in 
                            Princeton
                         range from July, 1817, to September 26, 1822, with several long absences.10 His name first appeared on Jones and Stockwell's books on
                        August 4, 1817, when George Flower bought a gunlock, $5.00 per "Mr. Fordham,"
                        but was then absent from its pages until April of the following year when he charged various
                        small items, not very interesting or significant; letter paper, postage, bridle bit, buckles and
                        slides, 1/2 dozen flints, brass cock, small sums to Stewart, his tailor. Even these ceased after
                        the middle of July, when he went to 
                            Illinois
                         where he said he was "as 
                     
                        7 Richard Birkbeck was the oldest son of Morris Birkbeck who
                                remained in 
                                    England
                                 in 1817 "to wind up his father's affairs at
                                Wanborough." Richard's oldest daughter, Prudence, married Richard
                                Ford, a native of 
                                    England
                                , and settled in 
                                    New Harmony
                                . Flower, History of the English Settlement, 97, 358;
                                Elfrieda Lang, "The Inhabitants of 
                                    New Harmony
                                 According to the Federal Census of 1850," Indiana
                                    Magazine of History, XLII (1946), 363, 392.
                     
                        8 Flower, History of the English Settlement,
                                255–56.
                     
                        9 Gil R. Stormont, History of 
                                        Gibson County
                                    , Indiana (
                                    Indianapolis
                                . 1914), 149.
                     
                        10 The entry in his journal for July 31, 1817, gave a description
                                of 
                                    Princeton
                                . Frederic A. Ogg (ed.), Elias Pym Fordham, Personal Narative
                                    of Travels in 
                                        Virginia
                                    , 
                                        Maryland
                                    , 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                    , 
                                        Ohio
                                    , Indiana, 
                                        Kentucky
                                    ; and of a Residence in the 
                                        Illinois
                                     Territory: 1817–1818 (
                                    Cleveland
                                , 1906), 108.
                  
                         busy as he had ever been in his life laying out the town of
                        Albion." He was a trained surveyor, a pupil of the famous George Stephenson,
                        "Father of British Railways." Evidently he waited in Albion for his sister
                        Maria who came over with George Flower's party in 1818.11 The
                        first mention of this lady in the books was on December 13, 1818, when Fordham bought
                        "A Crystal for Sister's Watch.50." His account of $11.00 with Brown
                        's Tavern to date was settled on December 1. In January and February, 1819, his only
                        charge at Jones and Stockwell was for postage; in March, he paid Arbuthnot [saddler] $5.50,
                        bought "1 oz Barks for sister" and some more a few days later and settled
                        again with Brown per order filed for $14.00.
                    
                  
                     April 8 To Cash pd for labor in garden 1819
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     April 12 To Cash pd for labor in garden
                     .75
                  
                  
                     April 12 To Cash pd Boicourt (painter and cabinet maker)
                     3.00
                  
                  
                     April 15 To 1 paper redish seed
                     .12 1/2
                  
                  
                     April 19 & 23 To 3 lbs nails a
                     1/.75
                  
               
                    Evidently he had taken a house, but continued to board at the Tavern, for besides various
                        purchases there of port wine, brandy, and bounce during April and May, the Tavern made a Charge
                        on May 9 of $4.75 for board and wine and on May 11, 13, 14 "to wine and boarding self
                        and girl." On May 17 he paid the Tavern $16.00 in cash and on July 9, $10.00 more; in
                        September his account of $44.36 1/2 was settled in full. By this time, the Fordhams were settled
                        in their house which Faux said they rented from John Ingle, and no longer boarded at the Tavern.
                    This was the John Ingle whom Faux called "my Huntingdonshire friend"; he had
                        settled at Saundersville, about ten miles north of 
                            Evansville
                        ; it is now called Inglefield. Saunders Hornbrook was said by Faux to have been the
                        first settler there.12 Ingle paid Faux's bill at the Tavern,
                        November 7, 1819, $3.00 and also on his return to 
                            Princeton
                        , January 1, 1820, $10.75; he bought him a pair of shoes at Jones and
                        Stockwell's for $5.00, December 22, 1819, and drew $20.00 in cash for Faux on
                        December 29. John Ingle belonged to a group of Englishmen in 
                            Princeton
                         or vicinity who had arrived there in 1819; they included Charles Phillips, Saunders
                        Hornbrook and James Maidlow who paid out what were large sums of money for those days and made
                        many business deals with one another. For example:
                    James Maidlow
                    
                  
                     June 16, 1819 Cr. By Amt draft on 
                                    New York
                                
                     
                     $999.38
                  
                  
                     June 16, 1819 To Amt per Hornbrook
                     230.00
                  
                  
                     June 16, 1819 To Hornbrook's Act
                     39.54 1/2
                  
                  
                     August 16, 1819 To Cash per order filed
                     200.00
                  
                  
                     November 9, 1819 To Amt pd Will Simpson
                     90.00
                  
                  
                     December, 1819 To Cash pd Simpson
                     70.00
                  
               
                    
                  
                     11 On October 30, 1818, Fordham stated that he was "laying
                            off a new town to be called Albion." He also kept a store there. Ibid., 31, 233–34; Flower, History of the English
                            Settlement, 101, 127, 135.
                  
                     12 William Faux, Memorable Days in America (
                                London
                            , 1823), 223–44.
               
                    
                    Saunders Hornbrook paid $5.00 for a portrait and contracted to supply an organ for the Tavern for
                        $100.00 and to help install it. Charles Phillips paid Ingle $158.00. Phillips paid interest on
                        $3,031.00—$201.86 1/2 He bought land by quarter sections, forty cows, and had the
                        beginnings of a prosperous farmer. But there is not space to go into their affairs here.
                    May 1, 1819 Fordham's account read
                    
                  
                     To Cash pd 
                                    Butler
                                
                     
                     10.60
                  
                  
                     To 1 Gimblet 9d
                     .12 ½
                  
                  
                     To Tools per bill rendered
                     7.81 ¼
                  
                  
                     To 1 Rule 6/ and Slate 4/6
                     1.75
                  
                  
                     To 1 ¼ yds silk per sister
                     1.56 ¼
                  
                  
                     To 1 3/4" muslin 3/
                     .87 ¼
                  
                  
                     To 2 paprs seeds 9d
                     .25
                  
                  
                     To 2 yds galoon 4 ½
                     .18 ¾
                  
                  
                     To 2 Bonnet boards
                     .25
                  
                  
                     To 1 Spade 10/6
                     1.75
                  
                  
                     To 1 Curricomb 2/3
                     .37 ½
                  
                  
                     To 1 Bonet (per sister)
                     4.50
                  
                  
                     
                     29.93 ¾
                  
               
                    Perhaps the bonnet she made with the two bonnet boards did not turn out so well and she bought
                        one at the store.
                    
                  
                     May 6, 1819
                     To 1 Almanac
                     .12 ½
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 History of War
                     2.00
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 Bunch quills
                     1.00
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 oz Wafers
                     .37 ½
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 2 Bed cords a 4/6
                     1.50
                      
                  
                  
                     May 8, 1819
                     To 1 Tin Bucket
                     1.37 ½
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 Coffee Pot
                     .50
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 Wash pan
                     .75
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 2 Candlestocks 2/3
                     .75
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 2 Tincups 9d
                     .25
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 Coffee Mill 9/
                     1.50
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 2 lbs Coffee 3/9
                     1.25
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1/4 lb Tea 16/6
                     .68 ¾
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 lb Pepper 3/9
                     .62 ½
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 set Knives and Forks
                     2.75
                     10.43 ¾
                  
                  
                     May 11
                     To 1 set cups and saucers
                     1.25
                     —per sister
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 cream
                     .75
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 Tea pot
                     1.25
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 ½ pint decanter
                     .25
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 4 Tumblers 1/6
                     1.00
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 2 Patty pans 1/1 ½
                     .37 ½
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 Pitcher 3/9
                     .62 ½
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 small tin pan
                     .60
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 Blue Pitcher
                     1.12 ½
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 Tea Kettle
                     3.50
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 Inkstand
                     .50
                      
                  
                  
                  
                      
                     To 2 Chambers 3/9
                     1.25
                     $12.37 ½
                  
                  
                     May 11, 1819
                     To 4 lbs sugar 3/
                     2.00
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To Cash pd Billy Glover
                     10.25 [A black man]
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To Cash pd R. M. Evans per order
                      
                     [Evans sold town lots]
                  
                  
                      
                      
                     100.00
                      
                  
                  
                      
                      
                      
                     112.25
                  
                  
                     May 11, 1819
                     To wire for hat
                     .12 ½
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To Cash pd Cyrus
                     1.00
                     [Black Man]
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 Tin Pitcher
                     .75
                     1.87 ½
                  
                  
                     May 12, 1819
                     To Ain't paid Ingle & Ralston
                     22.00
                      
                  
                  
                     May 17, 1819
                     To 9 yds shirting 2/3
                      
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     per sister
                     3.37 ½
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 4 yds shirting 2/6
                     1.66 2/3
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 yd check 3/
                     .50
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 2 papers needles 1/6
                     .50
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 large tin pan 4/6
                     .75
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 2 iron spoons 1/
                     .33 1/3
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 15 lb sad iron 20 cts
                     3.00
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 pr Shovel & Tongs
                     4.25
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 76 lbs castings a 10 cts
                     7.60
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To Handage on 5 ps. 12 ½
                     .62 ½
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 2 Tin cups
                     .25
                     22.85
                  
                  
                     May 18, 1819
                     To 1 sugar bowl
                     .75
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To Cash pd Zimmerman for flannel
                     .75
                      
                  
                  
                     " 20, "
                     To 2 quires paper 1.00, 1 glass 1.50, 1 bottle. 25, 1 paper ink powder.
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     " 21, "
                     To Cash pd Evans for Lott
                     30.00
                      
                  
                  
                     " " "
                     To 4 papers seed 9d
                     .50
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 1/4 yds Baize 8/3
                     1.75
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 2 boxes Pills 1/6
                     .50
                     32.75
                  
                  
                     " " "
                     To Cash pd Evans
                     20.00
                      
                  
                  
                     " 22, "
                     To Cash pd Henson Senr.
                     12.50
                      
                  
                  
                     " 26, "
                     To 3 yds lawn 3/ per sister
                     1.50
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To ¼ lb cloves 18/.75, ½ oz nutmeg 4/6.37 ½, 1
                      
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     Blue.25, 1 Blank bk.37 ½
                      
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 4 lbs sugar 2.00, 2 oz barks 50 and 4 oz barks 1.00
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     " 31, "
                     To 1 Umbrella 4.00
                      
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To Cash 3.00
                      
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To pd Robb 7.31 1/4
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     June 1, 1819
                     To 3 yds cotten per Lucy
                      
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     [yellow woman]
                     1.12 ½
                      
                  
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 yd check 3/
                     .50
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     To 1 quart measure
                     .25
                      
                  
                  
                     June 5,
                     To 2 oz ginger.06 1/4, brush, tea salt per Lucy.
                  
                  
                     " 14, "
                     To Cobbets Grammar 1.12 ½
                  
                  
                     " 16, "
                     To 1 Hook & Eye.25 3 ½ yds linen 4/6 2.87
                            ½
                  
                  
                     " 17, "
                     To Candle moulds grater.37 ½ [Much used to grate nutmegs over
                                drinks]
                  
                  
                     July 10, 1819
                     To 3 yds wide cotten, 5 yds calico 6/9 3.37 ½ 1 peck salt per
                                Lucy.75
                  
                  
                     August 2, 1819
                     To 2 oz Barks 2/3.75 3 lbs loaf sugar a 3/ 1.93 ¾ per Lucy
                  
                  
                     " 30, "
                     To Cash per sister 5.00
                  
                  
                     September 6, 1819
                     To cash lent 12.00 2 quires paper
                  
                  
                     " 16, "
                     To Amt pd Rumble for flour 3.81 ¾
                  
                  
                     " " "
                     To Cash lent 5.00
                  
                  
                     " 22, "
                     To Amt pd Mr. Eaney 25.00
                  
                  
                     " 24, "
                     To Cash pd Harrison 10.00
                  
                  
                     " 30, "
                     To 4 yds flannel 4/6 per sister 3.00
                  
                  
                     October 3, 1819
                     To 1 oz bark To Cash lent 5.00 To Cash lent per sister 5.00
                  
                  
                     November 13, 1819
                     To 1 Flower barrel.25 To 1 pad lock 1.00 - 1 quire wrapping paper
                  
               
                    Apparently at this point the Fordhams put their wrapped up valuables in a barrel, put a padlock
                        on their door, and started on their travels; at least, nothing is heard of them in 
                            Princeton
                         until August 24, 1820, except that on April 22,1820 a note was made that
                        Jones' half of the balance due on Fordham's Account was $28.33 1/3.
                        Fordham's last entry in the Tavern in 1819 was on September 13; it was resumed when
                        they returned in August 1820.
                    
                  
                     August 26, 1820
                     To cash in Steam Mill money
                     10.00
                  
                  
                     
                     To 10 meals and keeping of 2 horses
                     5.12 1/2
                  
                  
                     September 7
                     To Pint of Whiskey
                     .25
                  
                  
                     
                     To Horsekeep one Knight time not remd. 62
                     1/2
                  
                  
                     October
                     14
                     To 1 Large Glass Sling 1.25
                  
                  
                     December 27
                     To Ball Club
                     1.50
                  
               
                    This was the first ball he attended; there is no record of his going to any before his sister
                        joined him.
                    In other ways their life in 
                            Princeton
                         seemed to have gone as it had before their absence. Their account at Jones and
                        Stockwells showed the purchase of various household items, 2 candlesticks, bucket, pitcher, oven
                             4.25; cash drawn by each of them, and cash payable to
                        Lucy Ward, or Warder at frequent intervals. Fordham bought a chap book for 25 cents, a pair of
                        "mocasons" for 50 cents, linen, linsey, etc., and paid Mrs. Simpkins to do the
                        sewing; he bought 8 lbs of Butter for $1.00 from P. Woods, and a Bottle of Bitters for 25 cents.
                        He paid $12.12 1/2 to General W. Johnston, $6.62 to Anthony, $7.00 to Judge Hart. He bought 2
                        yds "janes" 9/ for $3.00 (The word is always spelled thus in these books; it
                        must have been pronounced that way.) He continued to hire Lucy and Anthony; paid Samuel Hall
                        $10.00, paid James W. Jones $40.00 for corn, bought 2 mattresses, a pair of dog-irons $5, and 5
                        yds drilling at $1.50–7.50. His sister bought a pair of W. K (white kid) shoes for
                        $2.00, a silk shall for $3.00 and a tortoise comb, $1.50.
                    In April, 1821, he received a credit of $50.00. His sister bought a chip hat $9.00, a
                        tooth-brush.12 1/2, a vinegar cruet $1.25, a skellet, "2$", and many other
                        household utensils.
                    In May he bought a large packing case $1.00, a pair of strong walking shoes," shaving
                        box,.37 1/2 cake of soap,.12 1/2, paid Dr. Waters $23.75 and drew "5 dollars in cash
                        when going to Eville." He received ten dollars credit on 
                            United States
                         Note but a Fayetteville note for $10 was returned. He paid Jno Terry $12 for a cow
                        in August, and the next day bought a milk strainer.37 1/2.
                    In September, Miss Fordham bought a pair of "maroco" shoes $1.50, a pair black
                        silk stockings $1.25, two silk handkerchiefs, $1.50. They bought another oven for $3.25,115 lbs
                        flour at 1 1/2 cts, 12 lbs cheese $6.00, honey from Lemaster, 100 lbs Bacon from Finney $8.83
                        1/3, several bottles of wine, a tub for pickles.75; a box of antibilious bills 25,
                        Dyott'e Bitters $1.00, a vial of Calomel & Jalop.25., and Sister bought
                        another pair of shoes, $2.00. A great many small sums of money were paid out, to Lucy, to Annie
                        Ward, to Mrs. Brown, to Miss Finney, to Mrs. S. Hornbrook; 1800 lbs of hay cost them $6.75 and a
                        good deal was paid for postage, particularly on letters to Albion.
                    In September a new name appeared, that of Charles La Serre whom Maria Fordham was to marry; he
                        was a French Huguenot, whose family had fled from 
                            France
                         and settled in Guernsey. He had abandoned his English home for a more adventurous
                        life in the American wilderness.13 His name first appeared in Stockwell when
                        on September 23, 1821, Fordham bought per La Serre
                    1 lb nails.25
                    2 quarts wine 1.00
                    The date of the wedding is not known, but surely the 4 1/2 yds silk at $1.25—$5.62
                        1/2, charged to Fordham by Miss Finney the dressmaker on September 29 were for the wedding
                        dress.
                    October 4 The following items, first charged to Fordham, were crossed off. 
                     
                        2 oz cinnamon 9d
                        .25
                     
                     
                        3 nutmegs 6d
                        .25
                     
                     
                        5 lbs 1 oz sugar a 37 1/2
                        2.00
                     
                     
                        3 quarts of wine
                        3.00
                     
                  
                        
                     
                        13 Fordham, Personal Narrative of Travels,
                            32.
                  
                         and all but the wine were then charged to La Serre: these
                        may have been for the wedding punch and La Serre could have brought his own wine. On October 2
                        La Serre bought a tea pot for $4.50 (it would now be called a tea set) and on October 5, 2 lbs
                        Coffee "first charged to Fordham." No more items "per
                        sister" were charged to Fordham after September, 1821, though his account continued
                        active until late in 1822. The first charge to La Serre "per Lady" was on
                        October 22, 1821, and entries in his name continued until the last date in
                        Stockwell's book, May 8, 1824. On the flyleaf was written "Commenced keeping
                        my horse with La Serre, Oct 6, 1823 at 75 cts a week." No information as to the date of
                        the wedding can be gleaned from the Tavern Ledger for La Serre's account there began
                        in January, 1822.
                    Nor is there any help in Fordham's Tavern account.
                    
                  
                     January 9, 1821
                     To Ball Club
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     " 18, "
                     To 1/2 pint whiskey
                     .12 1/2
                  
                  
                     February 18, 1821
                     To 1 pt whiskey
                     .25
                  
                  
                     March 10, 1821
                     To Brandy
                     .25
                  
                  
                     " 17, "
                     To Egg nog
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     " " "
                     To Club at ball
                     1.25
                  
                  
                     April 7, 1821
                     To Toddy & Whiskey
                     .62 1/2
                  
                  
                     May 2, 1821
                     To Whiskey
                     .25
                  
                  
                     June 2, 1821
                     To Whiskey
                     .12 1/2
                  
                  
                     September 7, 1821
                     To Whiskey
                     .25
                  
                  
                     February 7, 1822
                     To Mrs Simpkins bill
                     1.31 3/4
                  
                  
                     " "
                     To 1 qt of gin
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     March 27, 1822
                     To 1/2 pt whiskey
                     .12 1/2
                  
                  
                     April 19, 1822
                     To 2 bottles whiskey
                     1.00
                  
                  
                     " 22, "
                     To 1 pt whiskey
                     .25
                  
                  
                     " 30, "
                     To 1/2 pt whiskey
                     .12 1/2
                  
                  
                     
                     To Sundries
                     .62 1/2
                  
               
                    This makes a total of $28.30 3/4 since August 1820. Credit by Trowbridge note Recd by E. P. F.
                        for self and John Ingle 15.00 and by Cash 13.30 3/4 for a total of 28.30 3/4. Witness William S.
                        Brown.
                    His account at the store continued after the wedding with interesting items only occasionally.
                    
                  
                     October 9,
                     1821
                     By Credit from Phillips
                     20.00
                  
                  
                     February 1822
                     To Amt pd Hart
                     25.00
                  
                  
                     April 1822
                     To pd order to Bruner (cash)
                     6.12 1/2
                  
                  
                     
                     To pd order to Arbuthnot
                     1.50
                  
                  
                     May 7, 1822
                     To 2 Don Juans 81 1/4
                     1.62 1/2
                  
                  
                     " 13, "
                     To 1 Chip Hat
                     1.75
                  
                  
                     " 17, "
                     To 1 Bottle Snuff
                     .87 1/2
                  
                  
                     " 22, "
                     To Cash in 
                                    Illinois
                                 note $5
                     $2.50
                  
                  
                     " 28, "
                     To House rent pd Jones
                     15.00
                  
                  
                     
                     La Serre paid $53.38 1/3 on the same date, perhaps finishing out Fordham's
                                tenure.
                  
                  
                     August 21, 1822
                     He was charged for postage from Phia.25
                  
                  
                     September 4, 1822
                     To tax paid Milburn for 1822
                     1.62 1/2
                  
                  
                  
                     "
                     26,
                     "
                     Credit "by the proceeds of $115 in Treasury notes left with me to be
                                exchanged, and exchange has been made at 10 per cent 103.50
                  
               
                    This was the last entry. Fordham left 
                            Princeton
                         probably at the end of May, 1822. He and Alexander Ralston were selected by
                        Christopher Harrison to lay out a plot for 
                            Indianapolis
                        .14 Fordham is said to have made the second survey for the town
                        of 
                            Princeton
                        , the first one having proved to be faulty, but the author has no definite
                        information about it; he undoubtedly did surveying for private individuals during his stay
                        there. It is not: known when he returned to 
                            England
                         nor when La Serre departed from 
                            Princeton
                        .
                
            
               
                  14 Berry R. Sulgrove, History of 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Marion
                             County, Indiana (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1884), 25.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Foreigners in the Union Army and Navy. By Ella Lonn. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1952, pp. viii, 725. Appendix, index, and bibliography,
                    frontispiece portrait of Carl Schurz. $8.50.)
            This book is a sequel to the same author's Foreigners in the
                    Confederacy. Together they show how many pages are needed for a comprehensive treatment of what
                    might seem to some a minor question.
            The decades preceding the Civil War had seen a great immigration into the northern states, the
                    1850's having been especially notable for the influx of Germans and Irish. Miss Lonn
                    begins her book with a well-balanced and interesting treatment of the foreign population in the
                    North in 1860, based upon the census for that year. The figures will probably surprise most readers.
                    More persons had come from 
                        England
                    , from 
                        Canada
                    , and from 
                        France
                     than is generally supposed, while no less than ten minor groups had begun to arrive.
            How did the great multitude of foreigners react to the crisis that finally led to the outbreak of
                    civil war in the country to which they had come? The question makes the theme of the second chapter,
                    and it is answered largely by an appeal to the foreign press, especially the 
                        German
                     papers. Although there was a notable drift toward the new Republican party, in spite of
                    the fact that it contained antiforeign persons formerly in the Know-Nothing party, there was not an
                        en masse desertion of the Democratic party. Copperheads in fact soon appeared
                    among the Germans quite as well as among the native born. Nevertheless, the Washingtoner Intelligenzblatt charged that native Americans did not fully appreciate their
                    country, and said, "They do not understand free institutions, because to them the
                    difference between freedom and despotism is unknown. To us immigrants it is reserved to save this
                    land from destruction. And we will do it!"
            Miss Lonn finds that the leaders of the foreign groups were actuated by a great variety of motives.
                    Many Germans were opposed to states' rights, fearing that the principles would lead to
                    the breaking up of the Union into a number of rival countries, such as they had known in central
                    Europe. Others felt slavery was a reflection on a country dedicated to freedom. A Canadian on his
                    part wrote, "Is not the cause of  the 
                        United States
                     the cause of civilization and free government?" Many men enlisted out of a
                    sense of gratitude for the opportunities they had been given in their new home, for immigrants had
                    felt a welcome even during the decade of the Know-Nothings. The spirit of adventure was not lacking,
                    and some Turner societies enlisted in a body. A spirit of rivalry developed between different
                    nationalities, and it was urged that men could show the superiority of their racial qualities by
                    loyalty to their new country. Mercenary motives also intruded; there was a bounty for enlistment, in
                    addition to the pay, food, and clothing—and the opportunity for travel. With some
                    leaders, ambition played a part, for a man who raised a regiment for the Union cause was potentially
                    started on a career which would not otherwise have been readily open to him. But so far as the men
                    in the ranks were concerned, Miss Lonn concludes, "Probably the motive which usually swayed
                    the common soldier among the foreigners as a whole was the desire to extirpate slavery; this gave
                    the struggle a moral aspect and turned the war in a sense into a holy crusade. The contact of the
                    foreign-born soldier with slavery during the war only deepened his feeling against it."
            After discussing the largely 
                        German
                     and Irish character of the regular army that numbered some fifteen thousand enlisted
                    men in 1861, Miss Lonn considers in detail the foreign-born volunteer units, and then passes to the
                    foreign-born generals, colonels, lower officers, knights-errant, and soldiers of fortune. Many
                    sources had to be drawn upon and the chapters make an important and authoritative contribution to
                    Civil War literature, as does also the one devoted to the special services.
            It was natural that different nationalities should carry their characteristics into the service, and
                    manifest them in military behavior, in recreations, and in food and drink. The Germans could not
                    soldier without beer, and Miss Lonn writes: "The sutler of a 
                        German
                     regiment was expected to achieve the impossible in order to supply lager, Rhine wine,
                    and bologna. Whenever he appeared with a fresh stock of these goods, the crowd around his tent
                    gathered in numbers greater than those at a parade of that regiment. Naturally, the other regiments
                    regarded the presence of a 
                        German
                     regiment in the brigade as highly desirable." The Irish went in for
                    theatricals and steeplechases, while the Swiss seemed satisfied with sharpshooting contests, where
                    the winners were  rewarded modest trophies. The Scandinavians
                    were distressed over the absence of brandy, and only reluctantly settled for smoking and chewing
                    tobacco.
            Immigration continued heavily during the war and many citizens of foreign countries entered the Union
                    army and navy. In June of 1864, Secretary of State Seward replied to an inquiry by the Senate as to
                    whether the government was engaged in illegal procedures in the matter of forwarding enlistment.
                    Most of the immigrants, Seward insisted, went immediately into industry, while some voluntarily
                    entered service, the Secretary saying "There is no law of nations and no principle of
                    international comity which requires us to refuse their aid in the cause of the country and of
                    humanity." Miss Lonn writes a penetrating chapter "to test the exact accuracy of
                    these statements made by Seward." There was unquestionably some actual recruiting done
                    abroad, but Miss Lonn states that "Seward was careful to stay within the bound of
                    international law," and that it is unthinkable that he and 
                        Lincoln
                     countenanced the practice of some unscrupulous agents representing "fictitious
                    firms or associations" that induced immigrants to come to the 
                        United States
                    . The chapter concludes with the statement that "the Federal government
                    enlisted in its army nothing comparable to the foreign legion organized by 
                        England
                     on the Continent for the Crimean War."
            The ministers of most European countries complained of kidnapping and browbeating, the greatest
                    number of complaints having to do "with the luring of Canadians across the border by false
                    promises of work at high wages." Considerable friction with the British government was
                    caused by the army order which provided that a minor who had enlisted without the consent of his
                    parents or guardian would not be discharged if the parents or guardians were not domiciled in the 
                        United States
                    . Lord Lyons, the British Ambassador, received many distressing letters on this subject,
                    and some parents made a long trip to bring additional pressure for the discharge of a son. The
                    ambassador admitted later that discharges were given in all cases where sufficient evidence was
                    furnished. After her full examination of the draft and abuses in recruitment, convincing on account
                    of the multitude of specific cases discussed, Miss Lonn sets down the conclusion:
                    "Foreigners who were enticed, kidnapped, or bludgeoned into the army could hardly make good
                    soldiers. Either they spent their  time in prison, or they
                    performed their service sullenly or indifferently. Despite all the strenuous efforts of the
                    government and the bounty workers, the conscripts were relatively few. The product secured was
                    clearly not worth the enormous sums expended by the government."
            The inevitable question is: What was the battlefield contribution of the foreign-born? Since units of
                    foreigners were widely distributed, the answering of the question requires an examination of most of
                    the campaigns and the more important battles of the war. Errors and misconceptions are found in this
                    part of the book.
            It is stated that most of 
                        Kentucky
                     came into Union hands as a result of the Battle of 
                        Mill Springs
                    , fought on January 19, 1862. This is hardly correct, for 
                        Mill Springs
                     was close to the 
                        Tennessee
                     line, and it was the capture of Fort Henry on February 6 that really caused General
                    Albert 
                        Sidney
                     Johnston to withdraw from his important position at 
                        Bowling Green
                    . Nor is it true that General George Thomas had moved to the attack on learning that
                    Zollicof f er had crossed the 
                        Cumberland
                     at 
                        Mill Springs
                    . He had been ordered by Buell to drive the Confederates from a position they had
                    occupied for about two months, and General Crittenden, who had recently superseded Zollicoffer in
                    command, moved northward and attacked Thomas when the latter was some ten miles from 
                        Mill Springs
                    . The bayonet charge of the Ninth 
                        Ohio
                    , a 
                        German
                     regiment (I accept Miss Lonn's statement as to this), was indeed the stroke
                    that precipitated the Confederate rout, but it is not true that the victory "opened the 
                        Cumberland
                     Gap and East 
                        Tennessee
                    ." The Confederates were forced to abandon that position on the eighteenth of
                    the following June, by a difficult and skillful maneuver of General George W. Morgan; but no advance
                    was made into East 
                        Tennessee
                    . Furthermore, Morgan found it necessary to retire three months later because of
                    Confederate operations, especially those of John H. Morgan, which threatened the Federal
                    communications. It was not until September, 1863, that 
                        Cumberland
                     Gap was finally secured as a result of Burnside's penetration to 
                        Knoxville
                     by gaps to the south.
            The fine performance of the Thirty-second Indiana at 
                        Shiloh
                     is appropriately mentioned, but the impression is left that the regiment belonged to
                    Lew Wallace's division of Grant's army, when it in fact was in
                    McCook's division of Buell's army. Its colonel August Willich (he did not sign
                    his  report as von Willich which is the style Miss Lonn uses)
                    was not made a brigadier on the field, as she states, and his promotion dated from July 17, 1862,
                    which was three months later.
            The difficult task of treating the foreign-born officers seems in general to have been well
                    accomplished, but dissent can be made to some statements about Franz Sigel, one of the controversial
                    figures of the war. Miss Lonn speaks of his peculiarities and says, "It is difficult to
                    comprehend the exalted position in which his fellow countrymen insisted on placing him. His name
                    lives even yet in 
                        German
                     circles, while one hears almost nothing of the other 
                        German
                     generals." Miss Lonn herself, however, gives Sigel completely unwarranted
                    credit for the Federal victory at Pea Ridge, and goes much too far in excusing his failure in the
                    Shenandoah Valley. Grant had explicitly told him he did not want him to move farther south than
                    Cedar Creek, and Sigel himself later clearly assumed responsibility for the advance that led to his
                    defeat at New Market on May 15, 1864.
            After a chapter devoted to the "Foreign-born in the Navy," Miss Lonn ends her study
                    with a penetrating chapter which leaves the reader well impressed not only with her ability as a
                    historian but with her skill as an interesting writer. She sets forth how in their service the
                    different racial groups revealed their characteristics, both their weak ones and their strong ones.
                    Her researches have put her in a unique position, for no historian has looked so painstakingly and
                    so objectively at the problems of both sides in the war. When she finished her first book, she
                    marvelled "that the Confederacy could sustain the struggle for four long years."
                    Now with a full grasp of the difficulties that faced the North, she is ready to marvel that it could
                    "sustain the war for four long years to the point of victory." She points to the
                    fact that "on account of the heavy Federal detachments needed to protect the rear against
                    treason at home and to serve on the frontier, the forces actually engaged in fifty
                    important battles were almost equal." The volume closes with a question to which too little
                    attention has been given: "What was the effect of the war on the foreign-born soldier in
                    his relation to the 
                        United States
                     as an American citizen?" There is no simple answer applicable to every case,
                    but Miss Lonn says: "The word 'Americanization' was probably not in
                    common usage by 1865, and yet that process  is exactly what
                    happened, in greater or less degree, to each foreign-born participant in the war. Friendships
                    between men of differing European races and of foreign-born with American were cemented."
                    Another aspect of the question is answered by the sentence, "All the various racial groups
                    in the population of the North presented to the world a striking and thrilling example of devotion
                    and loyalty to the government which had welcomed the exiles of the world, as well as fidelity to
                    political principles which they had embraced."
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Kenneth P. Williams
         
         
            
               Correspondence of Governor Samuel Ward, May 1775 - March 1776, with a Biographical
                        Introduction Based Chiefly on the Ward Papers Covering the Period 1725 -1776. Edited by
                    Bernhard Knollenberg. Genealogy of the Ward Family —Thomas
                        Ward, Son of John, of 
                            Newport
                         and Some of His Descendants. Compiled by Clifford P. Monahon. (
                        Providence
                    : 
                        Rhode Island
                     Historical Society, 1952, pp. ix, 254. Notes, bibliography, index to Genealogy, index to Correspondence. $7.50.)
            In the story of securing and consolidating American independence, 
                        Rhode Island
                     too generally is featured as an obstructionist, blocking the way to a more perfect
                    union. The tone of 
                        Madison
                    's reproachful question at the 
                        Virginia
                     ratifying convention in 1788—"Would the honorable gentleman agree
                    to continue the most radical defects in the old system, because the petty State of 
                        Rhode Island
                     would not agree to remove them?"—tinges many a later discussion of
                    the climax of the Revolutionary Era.
            The Correspondence of Governor Samuel Ward, skillfully and painstakingly edited by
                    Bernhard Knollenberg, features a significant segment of the life and times of a Rhode Islander who
                    helped to bring the American republic into existence. By so doing it enriches and clarifies the
                    record at many points and assists its readers to a better balanced view of "That little
                    member" which 
                        Madison
                     later charged had "repeatedly disobeyed and counteracted the general
                    authority."
            Appropriate selections from the Ward Papers (a major acquisition by the 
                        Rhode Island
                     Historical Society in 1945) furnish the main part of the present volume, supplemented
                    by  some "letters to, from or about Ward" in
                    the 
                        Rhode Island
                     Historical Society collections and from half a dozen other libraries. With relatively
                    few exceptions the correspondence here published appears in print for the first time.
            Samuel Ward (1725–1776), writer or recipient of most of the letters, is accorded a
                    thirty-four page "Biographical Introduction" by Knollenberg. In this, special
                    attention is called to Ward's services as 
                        Rhode Island
                     Governor "during the critical period of the Stamp Act [when] he acted with
                    decision and wisdom," and to his membership in the Continental Congress, 1774 and
                    1775–1776, where he was "one of the leaders … during the critical
                    year following the day of 
                        Lexington
                     and 
                        Concord
                    ." Most of the space, however, is devoted to chronological accounts of
                    Ward's public life, beginning with "1756–1765" and
                    continuing through "1765–1767" and
                    "1768–1774." The last division merges into four final pages
                    interestingly concerned with John Dickinson and other public men, the progress of the War, an
                    account of Samuel Ward, Jr., and an appeal for information concerning other letters to or from Ward
                    which Knollenberg believes "have probably survived" but have not been brought to
                    light.
            The Correspondence (pp. 37–205) is printed in four sections:
                    "1, May 26, 1775-Aug. 31, 1775"; "2, Sept. 17, 1775-Nov. 2,
                    1775"; "3, Nov. 11, 1775-Dec. 31, 1775"; "4, Jan. 2, 1776-March
                    27, 1776." Ward's letters to his brother Henry (Secretary of 
                        Rhode Island
                    , 1761–1797), most informing on the relationships between colony and
                    continental affairs and on Congressman Ward's sustained interest in affairs within 
                        Rhode Island
                    , are reinforced by the correspondence in which Nicholas Cooke, Deputy Governor and
                    subsequently Governor of 
                        Rhode Island
                    , plays a part. Especially important, too, are letters to Ward from General Nathanael 
                        Greene
                    , his kinsman by marriage. Together with those from Samuel Ward, Jr., these furnish a
                    play-by-play account of War activities in northern areas.
            Aspects of Ward's family life, business affairs, religious fervor, and patriotic ardor are
                    revealed through his correspondence with his flock of motherless children (the youngest not yet ten
                    in 1776). His physician's account of the circumstances of his death (from smallpox)
                    indicate the affection and regard in which Ward was held in 
                        Philadelphia
                     where his funeral, late in March 1776, was a solemn state occasion.
            
            Monahon's Genealogy of the Ward Family (pp. 207–238 of this
                    volume) should be useful not only to Ward family members, geanealogists, and readers of the Ward Correspondence, but also to persons interested in the family backgrounds and
                    connections of such noted Americans as Julia Ward Howe, Samuel Ward, lobbyist, and F. Marion
                    Crawford.
            The index to the Correspondence, though excellent, leaves something to be
                    discovered by close reading of the letters. The addition of end maps might have added still more to
                    the extensive interest and serviceability of this volume.
            
                    University of 
                            Illinois
                        
               
                
            Louise B. Dunbar
         
         
            
               Whitman and Rolleston, A Correspondence. Edited with an introduction and notes
                    by Horst Frenz. Humanities Series No. 26, Indiana University Publications. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1951, pp. 137. Index, frontispiece portrait of Thomas
                    William Rolleston. $1.50.)
            Thomas William Rolleston (1857–1920), Irish translator, historian, and biographer, is of
                    interest to Whitman students primarily because he was an early champion of Whitman abroad and
                    published in 1889, with Karl Knortz, an important 
                        German
                     translation of some poems from Leaves of Grass.
            Most of the present collection of thirty-two letters or cards (twenty-four from Rolleston to Whitman;
                    seven from Whitman to Rolleston; one from J. Fitzgerald Lee to Whitman) is here published for the
                    first time—though four of the Rolleston letters are reprinted from Horace Traubel, With Walt Whitman in Camden, and a part of one Whitman letter has appeared in
                    William Sloane Kennedy, The Fight of a Book for the World. The original of most of
                    the letters Frenz has edited are in the Library of Congress. In point of time, the published
                    correspondence between Rolleston and Whitman runs from October 16, 1880, to 1885 or 1886. In
                    addition to the letters, Frenz reprints as appendixes a summary of a Dresden lecture on Whitman
                    which Rolleston published in the Camden Post, February 13, 1884, and an obituary
                    piece which Rolleston published in the Academy for April 2, 1892, the former to
                    show Rolleston's critical approach to Whitman (favorable, but not without surprising
                    acumen and some reservation), the latter to fill out the "full record of the literary
                    friendship" of Rolleston and Whitman.
            
            It detracts nothing from the unique value of Frenz' edition to say at the outset that
                    there is little here of major significance to Whitman scholars. Rather, the collection stands as one
                    more brick, not too significant in itself, but important in the total structure of Whitman
                    bibliography. The majority of the letters are by Rolleston, and thus show more about the Irish
                    scholar than about Whitman—except indirectly. The letters by Whitman are short,
                    perfunctory notes. However, the student of Whitman will be interested in several recurring topics.
                    For example, Rolleston's repeated references to Irish affairs in the early letters, and
                    in particular to the problem of Home Rule, must have intensified Whitman's interest in
                    international affairs.
            In common with several of the early Whitman enthusiasts, Rolleston was keenly aware of the effect of
                    modern science on the poet, and also of the poet's use of modern science. One of the
                    longer letters (Dec. 26, 1882) reports at length the considered opinion of the European authority,
                    Dr. Rudolph Virchow, on Darwinism. A passage from Rolleston's report of one of
                    Virchow's lectures reads: 
                        When the theory was first proposed he was not carried off his feet by the waves of enthusiasm
                            about him. He was content to wait, taking the theory for what it was worth, for the proof or
                            disproof which the researches of the next decades (dominated as they have been by the desire
                            to find facts bearing on that theory) would certainly bring.
                     This passage, and the whole letter, should be compared with
                    "Darwinism—(Then Furthermore)" (Complete Works, V,
                    278–280), where Whitman said that the world will be "Better'd and
                    broaden'd" by Darwinism, but added, with his usual caution on new and
                    "untested" scientific theories, that Darwin's theory, though an
                    important step, would doubtless have to undergo modification in some particulars. This may be seen
                    as further evidence that Whitman's caution did not stem, as some twentieth century
                    critics have made out, from sentimental and soft-minded opposition to evolution, but rather was in
                    keeping with informed scientific opinion, which held in part that Darwin's special
                    contribution, the law of "Natural Selection," was as yet not fully substantiated
                    by scientific research.
            
            Other items of interest may be noted. Among the books Rolleston sent to Whitman was a translation of
                        Encheiridion, by Epictetus, which Whitman treasured throughout his life. The
                    recording of the vicissitudes of the 
                        German
                     translation, Grashalme, shows again Whitman's fastidious
                    concern with the manner in which his poetry was handled. It was only gradually that Whitman was
                    persuaded not to have the poems printed in parallel texts of English and 
                        German
                    . Rolleston occasionally sent Whitman some of his own well-meaning but ineffectual
                    Whitmanesque poetry, the reading of which reminds us again that the apparent looseness of
                    Whitman's verse is deceptive, and most difficult to emulate. Again,
                    Rolleston's likening of Whitman's poetry to the music of Wagner and the
                    paintings of Turner (though the former analogy may well seem, to the modern critic, uselessly
                    subjective), is another instance of that merging of the arts which we find in late nineteenth
                    century symbolist-decadence—a merging which may be present in Leaves of
                        Grass itself in unrecognized measure.
            Frenz has supplied notes to the letters, perhaps too full and numerous for the Whitman specialist,
                    who does not need to be told about Emerson's letter ("I greet you
                    …"), about the banning of the seventh edition in 
                        Boston
                    , about the shirt sleeve picture in the first edition, about William Sloane Kennedy, and
                    so forth. Such notes would seem to be intended for those primarily interested in Irish literature
                    and affairs of the late nineteenth century. As one of a group instrumental in the revival of Irish
                    letters and culture at that time, as founder of the 
                  
                            Dublin
                         University Review, co-founder (with W. B. Yeats and Ernest Rhys) of the
                    Rhymer's Club, as a writer on Irish history and legends in Myths and Legends
                        of the Celtic Race (1911), editor of an anthology of Irish poetry, translator from 
                        German
                    , Latin, and Greek, biographer of Lessing, and member of many important societies,
                    Thomas William Rolleston is an important literary figure in his own right.
            
                    Harpur College State University of 
                            New York
                        
               
                
            Joseph Beaver
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Lincoln
                         in Marble and Bronze. By F. Lauriston Bullard. ( 
                        New Brunswick
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                    : Rutgers University Press, 1952, pp. 353. Illustrations and index. $7.50. A publication
                    of the Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     Association, 
                        Springfield
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    .)
            
            F. Lauriston Bullard has achieved the highest degree of relevancy in his book 
                  
                            Lincoln
                         in Marble and Bronze. The imperishable fame of the Emancipator is impressively
                    set forth by a display of enduring bronze statues bearing his likeness which have been dedicated to
                    his memory. Some worthy presentations of 
                        Lincoln
                     in stone supplement the exhaustive group of studies in metal.
            The work of Bullard becomes in a measure a "Who's Who" in American
                    sculpture. A brief biographical sketch is presented for each one of the fifty-six creators of the
                    eighty-seven productions. The book might also serve as a reference book for 
                        Lincoln
                     speakers who have assisted in the dedications, and excerpts from their addresses are
                    included. The newspaper training of the author has prepared him to select those human interest
                    incidents relating to the memorial projects to make the book something more than a mere tabulation.
            It is a strange coincidence indeed that Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , possibly the most sculptored American, and William Rush the first American-born
                    sculptor should be related. Both were descendants of Mordecai 
                        Lincoln
                    , an iron founder of Hingham, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , where one of the finer bronze impersonations of the President finds residence. It was
                    not many miles from the colonial community of the Lincolns where Bullard wrote his book.
            Writers have often speculated on what 
                        Lincoln
                     might think if he were able to return and observe the reverence with which his memory
                    is held. This book invites one to wonder if possibly the statues made in his image would not
                    surprise him most. How amazed he would be to find himself at Westminster Abbey and in the Cathedral
                    of St. John the Divine; on university campuses and in city parks; at the intersections of great
                    highways and in the business sectors of major cities; in colossal profile on a great mountain side
                    and in a calm boyhood pose of Hoosier days. But above all, there would be his astonishment upon
                    viewing that seated figure in the Memorial at 
                        Washington
                     where possibly he might be able to more fully understand why he has become an
                    inspiration to the peoples of all lands.
            
                    The 
                            Lincoln
                         National Life Foundation
                
            Louis A. Warren
         
         
         
            
               Readings in the History of the Ancient World. By William C. McDermott and
                    Wallace E. Caldwell. (
                        New York
                    : Rinehart and Company, Inc., 1951, pp. xxii, 489. $4.00.)
            The purpose of this volume is to provide the student of ancient history with a handy collection of
                    important source materials to be used in connection with a general textbook of ancient history. The
                    selection of the specific items to be included in one single volume of this scope is far from
                    simple; no teachers of the subject would be in agreement. In this case passages from the ancient
                    writers have been very well selected; and the choice of non-literary materials is even more
                    satisfactory. In most instances the authors have used standard translations, but in some cases they
                    have made their own. It was an excellent plan to begin with a chapter consisting of passages in
                    which eight Greek and Roman historians explain their personal concepts of history and historians.
                    Later chapters contain representative selections both from these same historians, and from the
                    philosophers, dramatists, and poets. The passages chosen cover a wide range of interests: personal,
                    political, military, economic, and religious.
            The outstanding advantage of this book is the inclusion of many items which most teachers and
                    students would have considerable difficulty in locating. For example the interesting passages from
                    Pseudo-Xenophon, Arrian, Strabo, Josephus, the Augustan History, and Lactantius are frequently not
                    at hand in small libraries containing the better-known works of classical literature. This may also
                    be true of the lesser-known works of the famous authors themselves. Even more inaccessible would be
                    such valuable items as the following, reproduced here either in full, or in fairly extensive
                    excerpts: Four Tablets from Lagash; The Gilgamesh Epic; The Code of Hammurabi; The Behistan
                    Monument; Two Egyptian Hymns; Treaty with the Hittites; Law of the Twelve Tables; Letter of the
                    Consuls on the Bacchic Rites, complete; The Deeds of Augustus (Res Gestae),
                    complete; The Minutes of the Secular Games; Claudius' Letter to the Alexandrians,
                    complete; The Charter of Salpensa, complete extant portion.
            This book would be more useful if it contained more material of this type. Some space could have been
                    saved by eliminating entirely the selections from the famous literary works which are readily
                    available in standard translations and are often contained in comprehensive collections such as F.
                    R. B.  Godolphin (ed.), The Greek Historians
                    (Random House, 1942), and in numerous inexpensive editions. The Classical Weekly,
                    Vol. 45, pp. 116–19 (January 21, 1952), provided an up-to-date list of inexpensive books
                    for teaching the classics. The inclusion of short selections from the ancient historians,
                    biographers, dramatists, poets, and orators may well stimulate the reader's desire to
                    read the entire work; but if the teacher were to require the student to read at least one complete
                    book of Herodotus and Thucydides, some biographies of Plutarch, and selected Greek plays and
                    dialogues of Plato in full, this end would be served even better. It is probable, however, that the
                    present volume will actually reach a wider group than if the literary passages had been eliminated.
            Nevertheless, the usefulness of the book would have been enhanced if some of the following items had
                    been included: Selections from the Athenian Tribute Lists and other inscriptions dealing with
                    Athenian democracy and imperialism; some papyri of the Hellenistic period, in whole or in part, such
                    as the Revenue Laws of Ptolemy Philadelphus, and P. Teb. 703; a few samples of
                    inscriptions and papyri of the Roman period, instructive for provincial and local administration,
                    cults, et. al.; possibly some short literary works of special historical
                    importance in full, such as Aristotle and Pseud-Xenophon on the Constitution of the Athenians, of
                    which the authors already provide extensive portions.
            Unquestionably this is by far the best collection of readings of source material for ancient history
                    yet available in any single volume. The value of the items included far outweighs any shortcomings
                    due to omissions. If used as intended in connection with a good text, it will help the teacher
                    enrich his course by giving the student a keener insight into the character and importance of the
                    sources for ancient history. For teachers in small colleges or schools with inadequate library
                    facilities, and especially for those unacquainted with the languages involved, this book fills a
                    real need.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Prescott W. Townsend
         
         
            
               Johnny Appleseed and Shorter Poems. By Ernest C. Leverenz. (
                        New York
                    : Exposition Press, 1951, pp. 88. Appendix, biographical note, historical notes, and
                    bibliography. $2.50.)
            
            Part One of this collection is a long narrative poem commemorating the one hundredth anniversary of
                    the death of Johnny Appleseed (real name was John Chapman). The stanzas are sestet in form; the
                    rhyme arrangement is a-b-a-b-c-c; and iambic tetrameter is the classification of the feet and meter.
            The reader follows the life of this frontiersman (1774–1845) from Leominster, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , the birthplace of Chapman, to the vicinity of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana, the place of his death. References are made to Johnny's early
                    education, his brief role as an itinerant missionary in some of the eastern states, and his sojourn
                    in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        New York
                    . John and a friend bought a horse. The horse, Prince, during a moment of frolic
                    "let fly his heels." The result: "John lay dazed." While in his
                    stupor John had had a dream. He had talked with the angels and then walked with them past
                    "rows of blooming apple trees." Frolicsome Prince was sold, and the friends later
                    went their separate ways; yet the impact of the horse's heels, according to the poet,
                    must have had its influence upon Johnny because that "vision" had helped to
                    crystallize his purpose in life. Johnny Appleseed would "leave behind him more beauty and
                    peace than he had found. He would mitigate the hardships of those pioneers moving into 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                     by planting herb, flower, and fruit seeds —especially apple seeds. He drifts
                    down the 
                        Ohio
                     River with his precious cargo of seeds, pioneering in 
                        Ohio
                    , and adventuring in southern Indiana. The last phase of this pioneer
                    nurseryman's life centered around present-day 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana, which is also the poet's home territory.
            Unlike many modern writers who stress character and personality, the poet, instead, has emphasized
                    the plot—a task which, even to approach exactness of detail, is in itself exceedingly
                    difficult because the documentary evidence is fragmentary; while on the other hand, there is an
                    abundance of legends and traditions. It would, therefore, be an injustice for this reviewer to even
                    attempt to review this poem in the light of historical accuracy.
            Those critics who belong to the historical-sociological school of literary criticism will probably
                    wish that the poet had placed more emphasis upon the age, environment, and society in which Johnny
                    Appleseed lived; whereas those critics who belong to the biographical-psychological school will
                    perhaps desire a greater reflection of personality and psychology in  this "story in verse." The present reviewer suggests,
                    since historical accuracy cannot be absolutely attained, that the poet might have been a little more
                    imaginative at times and that he might have used certain literary devices to enliven the story. A
                    sense of immediacy is possible through the idiom of the character, gradual accumulation of
                    impressions, or the stripped language technique. Various other devices might have been used to
                    present Johnny Appleseed—for example, having part of the story told in first person, the
                    use of dialogue, or the technique known as the stream of consciousness.
            Part Two of this collection presents ten shorter poems, with varied stanza forms and rhyme patterns.
                    The titles of these shorter poems run the gamut from "
                        Columbus
                    " to "Indiana." They are primarily patriotic and
                    nationalistic in theme; and many, in addition, have a deep religious undertone to them.
            There is some redundancy in these shorter poems (for example, p. 63 and p. 65); and although some of
                    the "eternal verities" are expressed in them, there seems to be nothing new or
                    refreshing as one starts with the first poem in this section of the book and reads through to the
                    last poem. Perhaps the general effect of these shorter poems would be better if the reader limited
                    himself to one or two poems for each reading period.
            There is some doubt in this reviewer's mind with respect to the poem entitled "
                        Washington
                    ." "Urged him [
                        Washington
                    ] at 
                        Cambridge
                     to accept command" is the verse in question. Does this infer that 
                        Washington
                     was at 
                        Cambridge
                     instead of 
                        Philadelphia
                     when he received his appointment?
            Undoubtedly this work will not be of great interest to the professional historian. It should,
                    however, find its place upon the bookshelves of those who are interested in the legendary life of
                    Johnny Appleseed and who have a need for short patriotic poems. For example, the poem, "Our
                    Flag," seems to be very appropriate for a schoolboy to recite on Flag Day. An appendix
                    which contains a biography of John Chapman, historical notes, and bibliography is very useful to the
                    reader and adds to the value of the book. The poet has added to the ever-increasing literature of
                    the Midwest, and he has made a contribution to "Hoosieriana."
            
                    Indiana University Southeastern Center
                
            Gerald O. Haffner
         
         
         
            Do You Have Anything Pertaining to Henry Clay?
            The University of 
                        Kentucky
                     through its research facilities in co-operation with the National Historical
                    Publications Commission are endeavoring to compile and publish the papers of Henry Clay. Letters
                    both to and by
                    
                        Clay
                    , other materials of which 
                        Clay
                     was the author, and particularly significant items about him will be
                    included.
            Any one having information on letters or papers pertaining to Henry Clay please write to
            Professor James F. Hopkins Department of History University of 
                        Kentucky
                    
               
               
                        Lexington
                     29, 
                        Kentucky
                    
            
         
         
         
            Genealogy Coon or Fleener Cemetery
            
                    Nova May Mertens*
               
                
            The Coon or Fleener Cemetery of Jackson Township, Brown County, Indiana, is about four miles
                    southwest of Morgantown, Indiana, on the farm now owned by T. M. Butler. This plot was donated by
                    Jacob Fleener, one of the first settlers of Jackson Township, who came to the county as early as
                    1823 or 1824 from 
                        Tennessee
                    . The plot is located about a quarter of a mile from the road on which Fleener built the
                    typical double log house. Since there was no church in the community at this early date, religious
                    services were held in his home, which were attended by the families in the neighborhood. Later a
                    family by the name of Coon purchased the farm and since that time the cemetery has been known as the
                    Coon Cemetery. One of Fleener's daughters married William Riley Ritter whose farm joined
                    the Fleener farm and the cemetery is sometimes called the Ritter Cemetery, but more frequently
                    referred to as the Coon or Fleener Cemetery. Inscriptions from the stones are as follows:
            
               Mary Hobbs Abbey, b. 1804, d. 1883. On same lot as Adella and Martin Neidigh.
               Sarah Barns, d. 1875, wife of Noah Barns, age 64 yrs.
               Wiley Burns, b Oct. 16, 1832, d. Jan. 4, 1913. Co. H 70 Ind. Vol.
               Emily A. Burns, b. April 30, 1847, d. May 27, 1932.
               Anna A. Davis, d. Sept. 18, 1872. Dau. of J. C. and A. R. Davis, 3 yrs., 3 mo. 17 da.
               Jacob Fleener, d. June 25, 1865, 61 yrs. 9 mo. 15 da.
               Sarah Fleener, d. Jan. 24, 1852, wife of Jacob Fleener, 24 yrs. 7 mo. 2 da.
               Hannah H. Fleener, d. Feb. 11, 1866, 64 yrs. 11 mo. 2 da., wife of Jacob Fleener.
               James Henry Fleener, b. Dec. 19, 1853, d. May 9, 1859, son of J. and H. Fleener.
               Mary Frownfelter, d. May 29, 1895, 85 yrs. 1 mo. 10 da.
               Aaron Frownfelter, d. Jan. 23, 1856, 63 yrs. 3 mo. 25 da.
               Jacob Frownfelter, d. Feb. 11, 1892, 83 yrs, 4 mo. 1 da.
               Marcus Harden, d. Mar. 29, 1866, son of J. B. and M. T. Harden, 9 mo. 9 da.
               Margaret M. Kelso, d. Sept. 7, 1850, 5 yrs. 3 mo. 1 da. 
                     
                        * Nova May Mertens is a resident of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana.
                  
               
               
               Martha Catherine (Null) Long, b. June 1, 1852, d. June 28, 1902, wife of Alfred Long.
               Alfred Long, b. April 9, 1848, d. Oct. 28, 1923, Civil War Vet.
               Anna Viola Long, d. May 18, 1877, 2 yrs. 9 mo., dau. of A[lfred] and M[artha] Long.
               Lucinda Long, d. Mar. 5, 1862, dau. of A[lfred] and M[artha] Long.
               Mable Long, b. Aug. 4, 1890, d. Sept. 10, 1900, dau. of Samuel F. and Rosa Long.
               C. D. Melton, Co. G 27 Ind. Inf.
               Robert Melton, b. Jan. 26, 1840, G.A.R.
               Eliz. A. Melton, b. June 3, 1849, d. May 10, 1900, wife of Robt. Melton.
               Thomas A. Melton, b. July 7, 1868.
               James W. Melton, b. June 28, 1879, d. May 9,1886.
               Walter C. Melton, b. June 22,1886, d. April 5,1896.
               Wm. John Merriman, b. Feb. 11, 1833, d. July 12, 1906, [son of Wm. of Va. and 
                            Knox
                         Co. Tenn., Morgan, and Brown cos. Ind.].
               Rachel Catherine Merriman, Aug. 20, 1841, d. June 5, 1929, wife of Wm. John Merriman.
               Lewis Merriman, [b. Oct. 18, 1860, d. Sept. 7, 1922], son of Wm. John and Rachel Merriman.
               Ivy Francis Merriman, [b. Dec. 27,1872, d. 1936], son of Wm. John and Rachel Merriman.
               Cordelia Merriman, b. 1871, d. 1910, wife of William Merriman.
               William Merriman, b. Sept. 7, 1863, d. May 13, 1944, son of Wm. John and Rachel Merriman.
               David Miller, b. June 18, 1812, d. Aug. 20, 1896.
               Sarah A. Miller, b. Aug. 21, 1819, d. Sept. 11, 1916.
               Mary J. Murry, b. Mar. 13, 1870, d. Feb. 14, 1904. [On same lot as Thomas A. Melton]
               Jesse Moore, d. Dec. 15, 1895, 75 yrs. 11 mo.
               Mary J. Moore, b. May 17, 1829, d. July 4, 1904, 75 yrs. 1 mo. 17 da.
               Thomas A. Moore, b. May 24, 1848, d. Jan. 14, 1914, only child of Jesse and Mary Moore.
               S. Neidigh, b. Jan. 10, 1806, d. Sept. 1, 1883.
               M. Neidigh, b. Feb. 1, 1811, d. Oct. 8, 1894, wife of S. Neidigh.
               John Neidigh, b. May 15, 1817, d. May 21, 1905.
               Nancy Neidigh, Feb. 4, 1827, d. Mar. 14, 1886, wife of John Neidigh.
               Catherine Neidigh, d. Oct. 29, 1857, Consort of John Neidigh, 66 yrs. 10 mo. 26 da.
               
               Alexander Neidigh, b. June 1,1813, d. Oct. 20,1863.
               Eliz. McNeely Hill Neidigh, d. April 14, 1887, 60 yrs.
               Roscoe Neidigh, b. 1888, d. 1891.
               Adella Neidigh, b. 1832, d. 1914.
               Martin A. Neidigh, b. 1858, d. 1932.
               Henry Oliver, b. Dec. 2,1862, d. Aug. 9, 1866.
               Harriet E. Reed, d. Sept. 12, 1853, dau. of H. D. and S. A. Reed, 2 yrs. 4 mo. 9 da.
               Oliver A. Read, b. Dec. 27, 1867, d. Mar. 12, 1868, son of C. W. and C.
               Lydia Lucetta Read, b. Feb. 10, 1851, d. Sept. 16, 1867, 16 yrs. 7 mo. 6 da.
               Sarah Ritter, b. Aug. 16, 1814, d. Aug. 25, 1852, wife of J[esse] Ritter.
               Frances D. Ritter, d. July 20,1877, wife of J[esse] Ritter.
               Two infants—Ritter, children of J[esse] and S[arah] Ritter.
               Jesse D. Ritter, d. Aug. 19, 1877, 18 yrs. 2 mo., son of J[esse] and E. P. Ritter.
               Lucinda Ritter, b. Feb. 7, 1852, d. April 1,1864, dau. of J[esse] and S[arah] Ritter.
               Wm. Riley Ritter,† b. May 13, 1837, d. Feb. 12, 1923, son of Jesse Ritter.
               Hannah Margaret Ritter,$dR b. Mar. 17, 1840, d. Mar. 25, 1916, wife of Wm. Riley.
               J[esse] Anderson Ritter,$dR b. Mar. 29,1874, d. Dec. 3,1927, son of Wm. Riley.
               Angeline Ritter,$dR b. Sept. 28, 1879, d. Oct. 17, 1917, wife of Jesse Anderson Ritter.
               Jesse Ritter,$dR b. Aug. 30,1813, d. April 17,1896.
               William Rude, d. Jan. 3,1869, 79 yrs. 9 mo. 29 da.
               Sarah Rude, d. June 21,1868, 66 yrs, 4 mo. 15 da.
               James W. Scripter, d. Aug. 9,1869, 24 yrs, 7 mo. 1 da, husband of H. E. Scripter.
               Chas. W. Scripter, d. Mar. 29,1874, 6 yrs. 10 mo. 17 da., son of J. W. and M. Scripter.
               Andrew Sherman, b. Feb. 25,1865, d. Aug. 10,1866.
               Henry Sherman, b. Dec. 2,1862, d. Aug. 9,1866.
               Samuel Smith, b. Dec. 13,1824, d. Jan. 21,1902.
               Barbara Smith, b. June 9,1838, d. Feb. 21,1904.
               Mary M. Smith, b. July 24, 1880, d. Dec. 31, 1880, 4 mo. 7 da., dau. of Sam and B. E. Smith.
                            
                     † Dates were provided by Mrs. Wiley Burns of Morgantown, Indiana, from Bible
                                Records.
                  
               
               
               Lucretia Smith, d. June 25, 1875, wife of W. S. Smith, 72 yrs. 11 mo. 9 da.
               Margaret Smith, d. Nov. 1, 1869, dau. of W. and L., 39 yrs. 10 mo. 19 da.
               Mary Smith, d. July 31, 1871, 39 yrs. 23 da., dau. of W. and L.
               Margaret J. Smith, d. Oct. 13, 1875,11 yrs. 7 mo. 3 da., dau. of J. and S. Smith.
               Cordelia Smith, b. 1855, d. 1940.
               Smith—Stone broken and only the name of Smith appears.
               Catherine Siler, b. 1855 [?]
               Ottis D. Steele,‡ b. June 27,1874, d. Sept. 14,1881, son of John and Rebecca Steele.
               Eliz. E. Stuart, b. Oct. 9,1862, d. Nov. 18, 1893, 31 yrs. 29 da., wife of William.
               Isaac Stump, d. July 27,1877, 30 yrs. 3 mo. 10 da.
               Eliz. Stump, b. 1850, d. 1926, dau. of Wm. and Araminta Stump.
               Jessie Cloe Turner, b. Dec. 26, 1890, d. July 2, 1891, dau. of James and Laura Turner.
               Clara Turner, wife of John Turner, b. Oct. 31, 1873, d. Sept., 1900.
               Gracie Ethel Turner, b. Sept. 3, 1889, d. at age of 6, dau. of John and Clara Turner.
               James H. Whitaker, b. Sept. 26,1876.
               Kate Whitaker, b. Dec. 23,1879, d. Jan. 20, 1913.
               Maurice Whitaker, b. Feb. 19, 1907, d. Dec. 21, 1909, son of James and Kate Whitaker.
               Infant Whitaker, b. Feb. 19, 1907, d. Feb. 19, 1907, son of James and Kate Whitaker.
               Joseph Wilkinson, d. Mar. 7, 1853, son of Merida and Nancy J. Wilkinson.
            
            
                    Persons Thought to Be Buried in This Cemetery
                
            
               Lytle Clark, b. ca. 1834 Garrard Co. Ky., son of Abner and Adeline Clark.
               William Clark, b. ca. 1822 Garrard Co. Ky., son of Abner and Adeline Clark.
               Maud (Cornelius) Stump, b. ca. 1875, wife of Arwine Stump.
               Abe Stump.
               Nancy Nelvina (Merriman) Neidigh, b. Sept. 27,1830, d. June 25,1857, dau. of William and
                        Catherine Merriman.
            
            
               ‡ Mrs. Effie Barns of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, furnished the date from Bible Records.
            
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
