
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 49, Issue 2, pages 131-248. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:49+issue:2+year:1953&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Indiana in Political Transition, 1851-1853
            Roger H. Van Bolt*
            
            While Indiana, along with the rest of the Northwest, had lapsed after the Compromise into a period of
                    political normalcy, superficial as it may have been, there were manifestations that the Hoosiers
                    were undergoing a transition in the development of their state. Indiana politicians in their
                    estimate of the situation could not always artfully dodge these changes—indeed in some
                    instances, they pushed them along with the result that politics, business, morals, religion, and
                    banking became mixed up together, further confusing the setting.
            After the taking of the census of 1850, Indiana found herself to be seventh among the states in
                    population. In the number of representatives in the national House and in the number of presidential
                    electors, the state was tied with Massachusetts and was surpassed by only four other
                    states—New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Virginia. By 1850, therefore, Indiana had become
                    an important state politically, certainly not to be ignored by the national party leaders.
            Still a predominantly rural state, Indiana had become an important leader in agricultural production.
                    It was perhaps the greatest pork-producing state in the Union, and the second largest producer of
                    corn. Wheat was also making tremendous strides as an agricultural crop, not only in the northern and
                    central sections but in southern Indiana as well.
            This was the statistical side of Indiana, but these sets of figures meant more than mere rank in the
                    family of states. 
                  
                     * Roger H. Van Bolt is Historical Research Specialist,
                            Henry Ford Museum and Greenfield Village, Dearborn, Michigan. This article is a chapter of
                            his Ph.D. dissertation at the University of Chicago, 1950, written under the direction of
                            Avery O. Craven.
               
                     The Hoosiers were entering an era which lacked many of the
                    crudities of a pioneering life, but which as yet had escaped an industrial civilization: they
                    remained farmers in a rural world, and their progress was channeled into agrarian development.
                    Although Indiana had been a slow starter, the state spurted forward in the decade of the fifties.1
            
            Throughout the state, rural attitudes predominated, and prosperity was determined by the state of
                    agriculture. The average citizen was more or less isolated; even though transportation sought him
                    out to carry his goods to markets, he was far removed from the ultimate consumer of his products.
                    The land was the only true source of Indiana's wealth which was industriously tapped by
                    free labor, and everywhere throughout the state an agricultural economy predominated.
            Early in 1851, the Indiana farmer was given a sounding board by the legislature when the State Board
                    of Agriculture was founded. This organization began with a limited program, and those who needed its
                    advice most probably did not trouble themselves to participate in its program. The records of the
                    board are scanty, but a few speeches printed in the early annual reports do exist which shed some
                    light on the Hoosier farmer.2 There are two common themes in these collected
                    addresses by both farmers and nonfarmers: first, the farmer was urged to improve his farming
                    practices; second, he was urged to obtain his share of the benefits of the government at all levels.
            More specifically, the farmer was frequently asked to diversify his crops. When Governor Joseph A.
                    Wright pled with Hoosier farmers to raise sheep and cultivate new crops, he pointed out that Indiana
                    which had only half as much improved land as 
                        Ohio
                     produced nearly as much corn and twice as many hogs.3 The corn and
                    hog mania was criticized by some who pointed out that the once rich soils, having been 
                  
                     1 Harvey L. Carter, "Rural Indiana as Transition,
                            1850-1860," Agricultural History (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1927-), XX (1946), 107-21.
                  
                     2 A search of the state archives failed to disclose any great amount
                            of material that seemed to have any special significance.
                  
                     3
                            Third Annual Report of the Indiana State Board of Agriculture for the Yew
                            1855 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1854), 217. Jesse Bright, the governor's foe, took great delight in
                            circulating stories about the state that Governor Wright was importing "hydraulic
                            rams" to improve the breed of Indiana's sheep herds. Bright used such
                            devices as these to ridicule Wright, the gentleman farmer.
               
                     exploited for thirty or forty years, would soon resemble the
                    worn-out lands of 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Maryland
                    .4
            
            The farmer was often asked to take a firm stand in the operation of the government; at the same time
                    he was warned to beware of the scheming politician. One such opinion purported to illustrate the
                    traditional position of the farmer in politics. The Hoosier man of the soil, the speaker declared,
                    did not have the social and political status in Indiana society to which he was entitled because he
                    lacked education and energy. "On other occasions," he continued, "we see
                    whole communities of farmers greatly excited on some political question, not originating with
                    themselves or for their interest, especially, but which has been gotten up by some politician with
                    not half the brains of themselves, but a little more education and address. Unfortunately our
                    farmers are much more apt to follow than to lead in all matters
                    of general or public interest—too apt to remain quiet until some village politician whose
                    bread and butter depends on such things tells them what to do, then every one of them, Whig,
                    Democrat, and Freesoiler are up in arms brandishing their swords as though each was the hero of some
                    great war, gotten up on his own account."5
            
            Another county fair orator said that no longer should the legislative halls be filled with doctors
                    and lawyers: farmers should represent their own interests in the government. The governor himself
                    urged farmers to take their stand in the Capitol of the nation. A 
                        Terre Haute
                     politician and judge tried to whip up the enthusiasm of the farmers by pointing out
                    that the general government had done nothing for them because the farmer had not forced his
                    representatives to act. He continued, "In the next place we are running after log cabins,
                    and Polk stalks, and ash poles, and hickory poles, and coons and roosters, and we are pleased with
                    them as children are with their rattles."6
            
            The implications to be drawn from this incipient movement to bring the Indiana farmers in step with
                    progress are often hazy, yet the clues cannot be discarded. The Board of 
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 99-100.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., 106.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 99-100, 220; Second Annual Report of the Indiana State
                                Board of Agriculture for the Year 1852 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1853), 304-5.
               
                     Agriculture created a sense of official sanction for a group
                    interested in benefiting itself through representative government. A plea was made for new political
                    leadership to meet the farmers’ needs. Governor Wright was, of course, a politician, but
                    he urged the farmers to act in the interest of farmers, whether they be Democrat or Whig. Farm
                    leaders were inclined to ridicule the "politicians" whoever they might be, but
                    they left the door open for political action. Over all was the feeling that the old methods of
                    farming and "politicking" should be discarded for new and more efficient means of
                    reaching out to new and more beneficial goals.
            At the same time that the farmers were being prodded out of their lethargy, discontent over the
                    persistent squabbles in the parties was being expressed by other groups. The repeated excitement had
                    stirred at least one educator to voice his suspicions for in 1852, Daniel Read, a professor at the
                    state university, wrote a pamphlet demanding improved common schools for Indiana's
                    children. He asked: "Where are our men of ambition and talent; shall politics, the
                    miserable strife of politics forever engross them? Shall mere physical improvements
                    command all the spirit and enterprize of the State?"7
            
            Ministers, too, were airing their discontent. For example, the graduates of Indiana Asbury University
                    were called upon to "redeem their time" by one Methodist minister who declared:
                    "We want no more territory; no more aggressive war. We want men of great and conservative
                    minds, who will mould the heterogeneous masses that are collecting in this vast country into
                    republicans—men who will develop our own vast resources, who will sustain our educational
                    enterprises— God-fearing statesmen, who will recognize the immutable principles of truth
                    and righteousness drawn from the Bible, and incorporated with masterly skill into the declaration of
                    our independence, and into the constitution of our federal government. And then all this will be
                    nugatory unless the church moves."8
            
            Here then was an example of the ministry also preaching 
                  
                     7 Daniel Read Address on Means of Promoting Common School
                                Education (Indianapoiis, 1852).
                  
                     8 Lucien W. Berry, The Obligations of Young Men to
                                Redeem. Their Time: A Discourse to the Graduating Class of the Indiana Asbury
                                University, July, 1852 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1852), 29-30.
               
                     the merits of the great conservative cause of the Northwest, at
                    the same time filled with suspicion toward the manifest destiny rage of the 1840's. The
                    young men were being called upon to get in step with progress through God's sanction.
            In still another quarter—the Odd Fellows Lodge—fears were expressed as to the
                    nature of the tempest which the politicians had created out of sectional discord. This benevolent
                    society, which appealed to the fraternal instincts of Democrats and Whigs alike, explained to the
                    brotherhood in its journal that: "The tendencies of Odd Fellowship, in a political point of
                    view, may be estimated by the humanizing influence it exerts over the angry passions and discordant
                    dispositions of our nature, and the wide dissemination of that moral virtue which is the true cement
                    of our civil institutions."9 Two months later the Banner
                        of the Union, another Odd Fellow journal, published in 
                        Kentucky
                    , became involved in a slavery discussion with its northern correspondents. The Indiana
                    editors deplored this situation and reminded the order that: "We think the unhappy division
                    of the Methodist E. Church upon this question, should stand as a beacon for all Odd Fellows to
                    beware of introducing the subject into the ranks of the Order." No longer certain that the
                    order's humanizing influence would be able to quell the political storms, the editors
                    advised the Odd Fellows to steer clear of the distracting slavery question. They warned:
                    "But once let the voice of fanatics upon this subject be heard in our councils, the seeds
                    of discord will be sown, a firebrand will be thrown in our midst, which all our brotherly love,
                    possessed as we are with human passion, will not be able to eradicate or purge from our Order, and
                    disunion will follow—and then farewell to our beloved institution in this
                    land….
            "We believe that the question of slavery is a purely political question…. We must
                    steer clear of the matter entirely but suppressing it at the start, and show to the world that we
                    will not let the local institutions of States interfere with the peace and harmony of our
                        order."10 The lodge was having its troubles in maintaining
                    brotherly love in the face of a political question that was capable of arousing enough human 
                  
                     9
                            Western Odd Fellows Magazine (3 vols., New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana, 1862-1864), I, 21.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 102.
               
                     passion to wreck the fraternal spirit of the order. Among the
                    Indiana Odd Fellows were politically-minded men who apparently believed in the finality of the
                    compromise.
            So it was in colleges, churches, and lodges that men were asking questions about and suggesting
                    solutions to political affairs, but at the same time they would not admit their own involvement in
                    politics.
            During the lull in national political affairs, the Hoosier politicians were busily engaged in
                    political matters that also were indicative of the changing times. The most important of these,
                    perhaps, was the new constitution. The squabbles it occasioned over the Compromise of 1850 have been
                    noted above. The debates in general provoked long political quarrels among Whigs and Democrats, but
                    only those matters that reflected political behavior and sectional consciousness will be considered
                    here. As to the new document itself, it significantly gave sanction for future legislation which
                    typified the newer path that politicians would tread.
            The delegates to the constitutional convention had little difficulty in agreeing on some revisions,
                    especially those that had been the objects of complaints for years. Among these were biennial
                    sessions for the legislature, and abolishment of legislative divorces, the latter of which the
                    churches had also attacked at length. Local and special legislation were in this same category since
                    they too had been widely heralded as reasons for revising the Constitution of 1816.
            At the convention as in the legislature, the Democrats held a whip hand over the Whigs, with the
                    result that the atmosphere was heavily laden with Jacksonian Democracy. One of the evidences of this
                    spirit was the provision for a tremendous increase in the number of elective offices, ranging from
                    the Justices of the State Supreme Court to the local justices in the townships; another was the
                    lowering of the bars on suffrage requirements: the politicos provided that unnaturalized citizens be
                    permitted to vote after one year's residence in the state. The new constitution also gave
                    all male citizens the right to practice law. As one delegate remarked, "Throw the
                    profession open to all like medicine and divinity; these were his sentiments."11 Almost all of 
                  
                     11
                            Report of the Debates and Proceedings o the Convention for the Revision of the
                                Constitution of the State of Indiana, 1850 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1850), 11, 1847.
               
                     these new provisions passed the convention with comparatively
                    little difficulty.
            There were, however, other constitutional matters that consumed a greater portion of the
                    convention's time; for the most part these concerned changes that had not been as
                    universally demanded by Hoosiers in the preceding years and which involved principles as well as
                    practices. Among these were homestead exemption, the property rights of married women, and the
                    treatment of the Negro.
            The first of these, homestead exemption, was eagerly sought by the delegates from northern Indiana.
                    The proposed provision was supported by both political parties prior to the convention, with
                    interest centering on exemption as a debtor issue. James W. Borden, faithful Jacksonian, raised this
                    question concerning land policy: "Sir, it was the combined evils of land monopoly and
                    slavery, that overturned the republic of 
                        Rome
                    . And let me say, that, while we may never expect that in the free States of this Union,
                    slavery will ever be directly tolerated; yet, sir, unless we shall restrict capital within proper
                    limits, and prevent its having too much the advantage over the labor of the country, the time may
                    come when the lands of this country will be monopolized to a much greater extent than we could now
                        anticipate."12 Among the other claims that were made for exemption
                    were: that it would promote prosperity; that it was patriotic; that it would safeguard democracy.
                    Whether the Eastern land reformers exerted any influence over the delegates seems questionable, for
                    Indiana had local problems in its northern section of which its politicians had been aware for many
                        years.13 The members of the small minority who opposed homestead exemption
                    were primarily from the southern area of the state. In reality, Indiana was merely following the
                    course of several other states which had made similar provisions since 
                        Texas
                     had first initiated homestead exemption in 1839. The Indiana provision was copied
                    directly from the 
                        Wisconsin
                     constitution.
            Although prior to the convention the civil equality of married women in Indiana had not been
                    discussed widely 
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., I, 755.
                  
                     13 Lena 
                                London
                             "Homestead Exemption in the Indiana Constitution of 1851,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), XLIV (1948), 267-80.
               
                     among the citizenry, the subject became the most verbose one in
                    the convention. The leading advocate of this constitutional change was Robert Dale Owen; opposed to
                    him as his chief antagonist was a "New Light" preacher, Oliver P. Badger of 
                        Putnam
                     County. Altogether, Owen introduced four separate plans, each time in a weaker form,
                    and after a series of successes and reversals, his proposition met final defeat. After one of his
                    plans had been approved by the convention, some of the women of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , including several wives of delegates led by Sarah Bolton, celebrated the happy event
                    by publishing a card of thanks to Owen for his efforts. This card caught the eye of Owen's
                    political opponents who, fearing the sudden popularity of the 
                        New Harmony
                     reformer, particularly in view of the coming senatorial election, asked to have his
                    plan reconsidered. It passed again. Still undaunted, Owen's opponents brought up the
                    measure for furthur consideration, and this time it went down to final defeat amid cries of
                    political chicanery. Owen's biographer attributed the defeat to several factors: the
                    conservative lawyers in the convention feared any inroads upon English common law; newspapers linked
                    the reform to the women's rights movement in the East, which to many Hoosiers put it in the
                    abolitionist category; and Owen's political rivals for the Senate feared his growing
                        popularity.14 The politics and excitement that grew out of this controversy
                    have significance as another illustration of the incipient reform movements that were complicating
                    the political machinery of the parties.
            The third question, which concerned the rights and privileges of the Negro in Indiana, was discussed
                    on two counts: the right of suffrage for those Negroes already in the state; whether all further
                    Negro immigration into the state should be halted. The only delegate in the convention who was
                    willing to permit Negro suffrage, and that with restrictions, was Edward May of 
                        Steuben
                     County. His resolution was defeated by a vote of 124 to 1.15 Negro
                    suffrage did not come to Indiana until long after this time, in 1881. Schuyler Colfax proposed that
                    the second issue, exclusion, should be carried 
                  
                     14 Richard W. Leopold, Robert Dale Owen (
                                Cambridge
                            , Maasachusetts. 1940). 276.
                  
                     15
                            Report of the Debates and Proceedings o the Convention for the Revision of the
                                Constitution of the State of Indiana, 1850, I, 244-46, 252-63.
               
                     to the people. He was successful in getting it on the ballot
                    approving the new constitution as a separate referendum.
            The attitudes of the delegates toward the Negro in general were aired during the course of the
                    debates, for the members of the convention swarmed out onto the floor to get their views into the
                    record. Some expressed extreme sentiments as in the case of David Dobson of 
                        Owen County
                     in southwestern Indiana, who warned his colleagues that: "whenever you begin
                    to talk about making negroes equal with white men, I begin to think about leaving the
                    country." Others made this an opportunity to remind their political opponents of the Free
                    Soil enthusiasms of 1848. David Kilgore, a Democrat from 
                        Delaware
                     County, announced that this was indeed an "age of progression" since
                    less than two years before "there was not a prominent man in either of the two parties who
                    would have been willing to denounce the Wilmot Proviso as a humbug; yet in this age of progression,
                    at this day, scarcely a single advocate can be found in the ranks of either party." His
                    opponent of two years before was also a delegate; he corroborated Kilgore's remarks that
                    the members of the convention were now denouncing those who had supported Whigs and Democrats in
                    1848 when he remarked: "it was a contest between Whig and Democrat which should be
                    considered the best free soiler. I recollect about that time I went into the field as a candidate
                    with the gentleman from 
                        Delaware
                    , thinking that I was as much of a free soil man as any, but I found that my Democratic
                    friend was so far ahead of me, that the result was a most admirable licking sustained by
                        myself."16
            
            Robert Dale Owen, in a speech to the convention in which he combined both the suffrage and exclusion
                    issues, claimed that since the delegates were overwhelmingly opposed to Negro suffrage, he therefore
                    favored their exclusion from the state on the grounds that they could not hope to achieve political
                    or social rights under such conditions. He felt that Indiana ought not have in its midst a race that
                    would remain disfranchised and on whom burdens would be imposed but who would have no voice in
                    deciding what these burdens 
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 233-35. Dobson introduced a resolution earlier that would
                            disenfranchise all those who voted for Negro suffrage, unless its proponents be in a
                            majority. Ibid., 232.
               
                     would be. Other delegates pled that exclusion was a measure of
                    self-defense to protect Indiana from the encroachments of the Negro. James G. Read of 
                        Clark County
                     pointed out that since Indiana bordered a slave state, it was necessary to keep out the
                    superannuated and unserviceable slaves that were set free by their masters. The strongest argument
                    against this proposal was advanced by Colfax who shouted that: "We live surrounded by the
                    beneficent influences of freedom, and yet, forsooth, we must follow the example of slaveholding 
                        Kentucky
                    ! Sir, the argument of the gentleman is bad—two wrongs can never make one
                    right. Let us do right, that by its superior contrast with the wrong it shall condemn that
                    wrong." Then the 
                        South Bend
                     editor pulled down his sails and eulogized colonization of the Negroes as his solution
                    to the problem of the free black. When the vote was taken on the question of exclusion, the
                    provision was approved by a vote of 93 to 40. The popular referendum on the question revealed that
                    only 21,873 out of 136,701 votes cast were opposed to the constitutional provision.17
            
            The Hoosiers and their representatives did not consider the Negro their equal, and they did not
                    desire his presence in Indiana. To some, slavery was the best possible condition for the race. Yet,
                    the fact that they were predominantly anti-Negro did not mean that they were necessarily
                    pro-southern in their attitudes. It must be kept in mind that many of the delegates were party
                    politicians who brought their stump speeches with them to the convention, and whenever it seemed to
                    be good politics for them to tirade against the Negro and to claim they were protecting the Hoosiers
                    from the evils that attended the Negro's presence in a free society, that was the stand
                    they took. The solution to the Negro problem, as viewed by the vast majority, was to colonize the
                    Negro; at any rate, slave or free, he should be kept out of Indiana.
            The Constitution of 1851 represented another step in the development of the state. The Constitution
                    of 1816 which had represented a victory for the upland southerners and the easterners over the old 
                        Virginia
                     aristocrats, the early arrivals in the Northwest Territory, had borrowed heavily on the
                    constitutions of the older states, influenced but slightly by 
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., 231, 455-57; ibid., II, 1817; Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (2d ed; 2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1918), I, 520.
               
                     the necessities of life in Indiana. In contrast to this, the
                    Constitution of 1851 was a patched up document, reflecting the changing needs of the state. Taken as
                    a whole, it was not a great document. Its strongest features were merely correctives for cumbersome
                    old constitutional provisions that threatened to block the legislative machinery of the state.
                    Experience of a heavy-footed nature guided the convention, and it was in the sphere of correction
                    that it took its most certain steps.18 The new departures, however, were halting
                    in comparison. While it corrected old abuses, it seems to have greased the ways for the Democracy as
                    a political party. With more offices to strive for and more voters eligible to cast their ballot,
                    the political pot could boil more vigorously. It remained for the Democratic legislature to carry
                    out its provisions.
            On August 4, 1851, the electorate went to the polls and by a huge majority approved the new
                    constitution. The new legislature was elected at the same time—on its shoulders fell the
                    task of implementing the work of the convention with suitable statutory acts.
            One of the more important of these measures was the revision of the banking structure of the state.
                    The members of the legislature could choose among three viewpoints: a state bank, free banks, or no
                    banks. A sizeable group opposed the state bank on the ground that it was a monopoly, but the balance
                    of power was held by those who supported free banks. When final action was taken, the opposing
                    interests agreed to a compromise with the result that a combination of a state and a free banking
                    system was created over the veto of Governor Wright. Since many restrictions were removed, free
                    banks sprang up everywhere. Merchants found it necessary to subscribe to a periodical which listed
                    the current rates of discount upon the notes of the various free banks which circulated about the
                    state. Bonds or stocks of varying worth were deposited with the state auditor as security for the
                    currency issued by the new banks. Two years later, the disturbances in the money market created by
                    the international crisis of the Crimean War brought on a general withdrawal 
                  
                     18 John D. Barnhart, "The Southern Influence in the Formation
                            of Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIII (1937), 261-76;
                            Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 518.
               
                     of deposits in banks, including the free banks of Indiana. The
                    Hoosiers joined in the rush to redeem the bank paper and soon the free banks began to close their
                        doors.19
            
            The attack on the state bank by the members of the legislature with its subsequent free banking spree
                    was part of a generally hostile attitude toward banking that grew, in part, out of the Jacksonian
                    era. In Indiana, it also meant that the old influential bankers were being pushed hard by the
                    politicians, Some left the state, among them J. F. D. Lanier of 
                        Madison
                    , who went to Wall Street. But others remained, many of whom were enemies of the
                    Democrats. James M. Ray stayed on as cashier of the state bank; in the branches were Calvin
                    Fletcher, perennial reformer of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Allen 
                        Hamilton
                     and Hugh McCulloch of Fort Wayne; and Samuel C. Sample, former Whig congressman of
                    South Bend.20 These leaders were successful and influential citizens who were
                    not above dabbling in politics, particularly when the actions of the legislature aroused them to
                    protect their interests. The general result of the new banking system was to create new foment in
                    political circles.
            In the field of education, the new constitution contained an article declaring that it would be the
                    duty of the General Assembly "to provide by law for a general and uniform system of common
                    schools, wherein tuition shall be without charge, and equally open to all." It also
                    provided for the election of a state superintendent of public instruction. The General Assembly
                    proceeded to implement the constitutional provision by a law that provided for local taxation to
                    finance the erecting and equipping of buildings; this was to supplement the funds distributed by the
                    state for tuition purposes. Thus at long last life was given to the common free schools of the
                    state, and Caleb Mills’ long and arduous campaign had achieved a measure of success. The
                    state Supreme Court, however, declared a portion of the law unconstitutional in 1854, which all but
                    paralyzed the movement for another 
                  
                     19 Maurice O'Rear Ross, "An Analysis of Commercial
                            Banking in the State of Indiana" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Histo The
                            University of 
                                Chicago
                            , 1936), 66-68; Leonard C. Helderman, National and State Banks (
                                New York
                            . 1931). 52-55.
                  
                     20 "Report of the State Bank of Indiana," Indiana Documenting Journal, 1851-1852, pp. 212-13.
               
                     decade.21 Indiana was not yet ready to move
                    up in the ranks of the literate states of the union.
            The consequences of the developments in agriculture, law, banking, and education revealed an uneven
                    picture of progress and deadlock. In each of these fields of endeavor, there was disquietude
                    interspersed with self-satisfaction. This unequalness was typical of the general state of adjustment
                    through which the Hoosiers were passing. They were moving forward, pulling in the "loose
                    ends" as they went. For the most part, these events were shaped at a time when many
                    Hoosiers were dwelling in a political atmosphere of "finality" sustained by the
                    comforting words of those who were willing to accept compromise, and there seemed to be many in
                    Indiana who claimed their willingness to preserve the federal solution to the irritating problems of
                    sectional discord.
            Politics, however, was never entirely forgotten—there were still elections and conventions
                    during each year. The most important of these political affairs in the state in 1861 was the
                    senatorial race.
            The August elections in 1850 had assured a strongly Democratic legislature. Because the troublesome
                    Free Soil movement had collapsed, the choice of an old-line Democrat had been rendered almost
                    certain. No senator from Indiana had succeeded himself in twenty years, and it appeared that Jesse
                    Bright would be rotated out of office; his strongest opponent, Robert Dale Owen, had wreathed
                    himself in laurels in the constitutional convention, but his chances were being weakened by the
                    barbs of politicians on both sides of the fence who feared his upward surge in the public eye.
            Jesse Bright, however, was not yet ready to leave the Senate; consequently, he devoted the fall to
                    mending his political fences about the state, and not until mid-December did he leave Indiana to
                    return to 
                        Washington
                    . At a mass meeting of the Democrats in 
                        Madison
                    , he read Michael C. Garber of the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier out of the party, along with Governor Wright. Although the editor
                    continued to support Bright, and the friends of both men attempted to reconcile their political
                    differences, the Senator was adamant, claiming that Garber and Phineas M. Kent of the New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Ledger, 
                  
                     21 William O. Lynch, "The Great Awakening," Indian & Magazine of History, XLI (1945), 110-11.
               
                     along with the Governor, had plotted his defeat,
                    "Traitors and honest democrats cannot affiliate," Bright wrote to his friends.22
            
            The campaign took on more exciting aspects when Owen, who thought he had discovered a clear case of
                    bribery among Bright's followers, published his findings. The day after the story broke,
                    the Senator arrived from 
                        Washington
                     after a dramatic race from the capital by special train. Owen and Bright held a secret
                    conference, and the charges were retracted. The Senator's stock soared, and when the
                    Democrats met in caucus, Bright had more than enough votes to be nominated. In the balloting in the
                    legislature the next day, he received all the Democratic votes, in addition to four Whig votes,
                    giving him a total of ninety-nine to his opponent's forty-six.23 This
                    was a far healthier plurality than had been possible a few years before. Jesse's political
                    fences were getting stronger in Indiana.
            The election of 1852, it may be said, had had certain original features, but whether they were of any
                    great significance is doubtful. It was more a campaign of cover up than of revelation. Both parties
                    in the state paid homage to "finality" as a means of keeping the disconcerting
                    question of slavery from upsetting the best laid schemes of the politicians.
            The visit of the Hungarian patriot, Louis Kossuth, to the 
                        United States
                     aroused the liberty-loving instincts of the citizens and politicians of Indiana as well
                    as of the nation. Since the visiting dignitary arrived in the 
                        Ohio Valley
                     at the time of the state conventions, the platforms of the Whigs and Democrats alike
                    burst forth with long eulogies to the cause of freedom which had been recently trampled by the
                    Russians: "no nation may lawfully interfere with the domestic concerns of
                    another," said the Democrats. The Whigs, on the other hand, reaffirmed their sympathy for
                    "Republicanism and free principles in Europe," which the convention had approved
                    in 1849.24
            
            
               
                  22 William S. Garber, "Jesse D. Bright and Michael C.
                        Garber," Indiana Magazine of History, XXVIII (1932), 34-36.
               
                  23 Leopold, Robert Dale Owen, 278-79; Charles B. Murphy,
                        "The Political Career of Jesse D. Bright," Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1895-), X (1933), 120-21.
               
                  24 W. E. Henry (comp.), State Platforms of the Two Dominant
                            Political Parties in Indiana, 1850-1900 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1902), 5-7.
            
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     press extended a magnanimous welcome to Kossuth, with each paper declaring itself to be
                    the special apostle of freedom. The Whigs claimed credit for all previous aid to 
                        Hungary
                    , as well for the independence of 
                        Texas
                    . The Sentinel answered the Whig outbursts thus: "They say we
                    have no right to open our mouths. They, therefore, sympathize with the master who forges upon his
                    serfs the iron collar of slavery. They sympathize with the splendor of the court and the golden
                    drapery of the monarch."25 The verbiage of the press contained the
                    familiar phases of recent domestic political battles placed in a new context.
            The Indiana legislature was the first in the West to invite Kossuth to its capital, and rather
                    triumphantly a delegation from that body journeyed to 
                        Cincinnati
                     to accompany the Hungarian patriot to 
                        Indianapolis
                    .26 Robert Dale Owen, a member of the delegation, enthusiastically
                    explained the new constitution of Indiana to the foreign visitors, which prompted Madame Theresa
                    Pulszky, a member of the party, to inquire about the inconsistency of the document: while it began
                    with the declaration that all men were created equal, it contained an article forbidding any Negro
                    or mulatto to come into the state. Owen's answer, in the lady's words, is
                    interesting. He repeated, his declarations that social and political rights could not be obtained by
                    the Negro owing to the antipathy of the two races; therefore, he should find a home in other lands.
                    The conversation, recorded by Madame Pulszky, continued: " ‘Our children shall
                    not have helots before their eyes,’ said he. ‘But why are they to be
                    helots,’ asked I. ‘In 
                        Massachusetts
                    , as far as I know, in 
                        Vermont
                     and in 
                        New York
                    , they are free citizens of the 
                        United States
                    , if they possess landed property.’ The answer was, that public opinion
                    disapproved this in Indiana."27
            
            Among those who entertained the visitors was Mrs. Sarah Bolton, who impressed Madame Pulszky more
                    than any of the other wives of the delegation, described in her diary 
                  
                     25 Dale Beeler, "The Election of 1852 in Indiana,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, XI (1915), 303.
                  
                     26 One of the members of Kossuth's arty was Madame Theresa
                            Pulszky who has left an account of the Indiana journey. Her memoirs reveal an interesting
                            commentary on the state in the winter of 1852.
                  
                     27 Francis and Theresa Pulszky, White, Red, Black (2
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1853), II, 8.
               
                     as being from "country towns and from the
                    farms." According to their account of the Indiana visit, the Hoosiers particularly
                    impressed the visitors with their feeling of equality—they did not like to work for
                    wages.
            A description of the governor's levee afforded a revealing look into society in the Indiana
                    capital: "In thronged the society and people of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , ladies and gentlemen of every description. Muddy boots and torn clothes; and again
                    desperate attempts at finery; glass jewels and French silk dresses, which, after having found no
                    purchasers in 
                        New York
                    , have been sent to the West. Some of the mothers had their babies in their arms,
                    workmen appeared in their blouses or dusty coats just as they came from the workshop; farmers
                    stepped in in high boots. Once more we saw that the house of the Governor is the property of the
                    people. And yet this incongruous mass did not behave unbecomingly to a drawing room. There was no
                    rude elbowing, no unpleasant noise, or disturbing laughter. Had they but shaken hands less
                    violently! I yet feel Western cordiality in my stiff arm."28
            
            Governor Wright participated in the round of visits through the muddy streets of the town, and he
                    took the guests to the Methodist church. Again the foreigners were impressed: "No
                    glittering formalities, no working on the imagination: not much of reasoning; but powerful accents
                    and appeals to the conscience, with continuous reference to the Scriptures; interwoven with frequent
                    warnings pointing to heaven and hell. The audience seemed deeply moved; they sang unmusically, but
                    prayed earnestly. I could not doubt the deep religious conviction of the people." Wright
                    was patriarchal in his behavior during the Sabbath tour of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In each Sunday school, he explained that religion was the, basis of the social order
                    and instruction the only way to freedom. He illustrated the obligation to submit to the law of the
                    country "by several happy examples from recent events in America."29
            
            Back in 
                        Madison
                    , the Germans who had not welcomed Kossuth at first came out to greet him and his party
                    as they left for 
                        Louisville
                    . If nothing else, the Kossuth episode had relieved the tedium of the winter, for it
                    gave the politicians an opportunity to vow their devotion to the cause of freedom 
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., 10-11.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 12.
               
                     over the world, and it provided excuses for meetings, which to
                    the Hoosiers meant entertainment and excitement. In the legislature, the members could orate and
                    perchance find political capital in it. George C. Dunn of 
                        Bedford
                    , "the sleeping lion of Lawrence," made a rattling speech against the
                    heresy of armed intervention and denied that 
                        Hungary
                     deserved the aid of the 
                        United States
                    . Afterwards he explained that his position was in deference to the fact that he had two
                    thousand 
                        German
                     Catholics in his constituency who opposed the cause.30
            
            Sharing the stage with other political questions at this time was the rising temperance movement.
                    During the sessions of the legislature, an unsuccessful attempt was made to enact a 
                        Maine
                     law. In a special election in 
                        Indianapolis
                     early in 1852, the campaign was fought out on the temperance issue, which provided a
                    political straw in the wind. A great number of citizens, including the governor himself, had signed
                    the pledge, and Democrats, Whigs, and Free Soilers alike condemned the liquor traffic, but they were
                    reluctant to suggest specific cures. Meanwhile, the Indiana Conference of the Methodist church
                    passed resolutions to the effect that it was the duty of every Methodist to oppose and overthrow
                    "the guilty practice of inebriation."31 Politicians anxiously
                    watched the "cold water boys" in their districts.
            Kossuthism and temperance were supplementary factors, then, that tended to draw public interest away
                    from the old issues, particularly the sectional question. Although it is difficult to believe that
                    all politicians were hiding from the slavery issue, still some may have honestly convinced
                    themselves after the compromise that the slavery issue was settled. It was an uneasy solution, to be
                    sure, but men have since shown their willingness to believe slogans of their own creation.
                    "Peace for our time" had a comfortable ring to many almost a hundred years later.
            The state conventions met early in the year to select an imposing number of candidates; not only was
                    it a presidential year, but there was a full state slate to be elected. Since the 
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., 13; John Lyle King, Memoirs of the Legislature of
                                1851-1852 (n.p., n.d.).
                  
                     31 Charles E. Canup, "Temperance Movements and Legislation in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XVI (1920), 15.
               
                     new constitution had made more offices elective, there were
                    more candidates than ever.
            The Democrats met at the Masonic Hall in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on February 24, 1852. Although Jesse Bright had hoped his old enemy Joe Wright would be
                    defeated, the governor was renominated with little trouble.32 The remainder of
                    the ticket was amply filled with Bright Democrats who, with few exceptions, resided in the area
                    south of the National Road. The Free Soil sentiments of the Democrats of the Upper 
                        Wabash
                     had robbed them of influence in the party councils. Yet, the presence on the ticket of
                    John Pettit of 
                        Lafayette
                    , a consummate politician himself, indicated that Jesse Bright had not been able to rule
                    the selections completely. Congressional nominees included some new names, for example, William H.
                    English and Thomas A. Hendricks, from both of whom Indiana voters would hear much in the future. The
                    convention finally endorsed the Compromise of 1850, despite pre-convention predictions of some of
                    the Free Soil papers. The platform also endorsed General Joseph Lane for the presidency.33
            
            The Whigs met two days later and nominated for governor Nicholas McCarty, a retired businessman, but
                    erstwhile opponent of William Wick in the congressional races of the forties.34
                    The ticket as a whole represented northern and central Indiana; none of the nominees came from the
                    river counties. General Winfield Scott was endorsed for the presidency, and John J. Crittenden of 
                        Kentucky
                    , who had stood arm in arm with Governor Wright during the compromise excitement two
                    years before, was the Indiana Whigs’ choice for the vice-presidency. In the platform, the
                    Whigs revealed their reluctance to elaborate on the compromise, other than 
                  
                     32 Jesse D. Bright to William H. English, 
                                Washington
                            , December 16, 1851, English Collection, Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     33 Stephen A. Douglas had written English prior to the convention
                            expressing his hope that Indiana would line up with 
                                Illinois
                             and support him. Douglas, however, claimed that he did not want to interfere
                            with their efforts for Lane. He would be equally pleased as second choice of the Indiana
                            Democrats. Apparently Douglas hoped that he could step into the picture following the
                            collapse of the Lane boom at the national convention. Stephen A. Douglas to William H.
                            English, 
                                Washington
                            , December 29, 1851, English Collection.
                  
                     34 In 
                                Indianapolis
                            , the McCarty family was of the nobility, so to speak, second only to the Morris
                            in the commercial life of the town.
               
                     to cite Crittenden's patriotism and integrity in
                    "his opposition to everything tending to disunion." The party sympathized at
                    length with the Republican movement in Europe, and bade a "hearty welcome to all who should
                    seek an asylum on our shores." Resolutions were included in favor of a high protective
                    tariff and internal improvements.35
            
            The Free Soilers met in May, having announced throughout the state that: "The friends of
                    freedom and of Free-Soil, including all those opposed to the ‘Fugitive slave
                    Law,’ will hold a State convention at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , on the third Monday in May—the 17th—for the purpose of
                    deliberating upon the interest of the cause of liberty and of our State and Nation. Each township is
                    requested to send on a delegate to the convention." When the convention assembled it was
                    clear that the accretions of 1848 had fallen away from the Free Soilers; consequently, its
                    nominations came from the old Abolitionist and Liberty party core that persisted in maintaining a
                    separate organization. Andrew L. Robinson of 
                        Vanderburgh County
                     was an old worker for the cause. John B. Semans and Stephen C. Stevens, both on the
                    ticket, had been nominees of the Liberty party many years before. Also included was Raw-son Vaile of 
                        Wayne County
                    , abolitionist editor. In an address before the convention, George W. Julian attacked
                    what he termed the obsolete issues between the Whigs and Democrats, referring to the two parties as
                    being merely factions fighting for the spoils of office.36
            
            The national conventions in June gave the Indiana politicians an opportunity to express their views
                    and state their positions. The Democrats were keenly interested in convention affairs, feeling that
                    they had a potential choice of the national party with General Joseph Lane; on the other hand, the
                    Whigs were wary in their approval of any national candidate, remembering the campaign of 1848 when
                    Taylor had been reluctantly accepted by the Indiana leaders of the party.
            The Lane supporters in the national Democratic pool made hardly a ripple, but to the Indiana
                    Democrats, he appeared to be an answer to their needs. Following the Mexican War, this military
                    leader had served as governor of the 
                  
                     35
                            Indiana State Journal, February 27, 1862; Henry, State
                                Platforms, 7-8.
                  
                     36 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, May 6, 1852; Beeler, "The Election of 1852 in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XI, 315.
               
                    
                    
                        Oregon
                     Territory, returning to Indiana in 1851. Jesse Bright took "Jo" Lane
                    in hand and invited the Democrats of southern Indiana to his home to confer with the candidate.37 In 
                        Washington
                    , John L. Robinson took charge of the Lane movement. This Hoosier politician, partisan
                    to the core and faithful friend of Bright, reported in January that the Stephen A. Douglas bubble
                    had exploded and the battle would be between James Buchanan and Lewis Cass. He predicted that a
                    stalemate would develop between these two men, Douglas would make an unsuccessful bid, and the
                    choice would then be among Lane, William L. Marcy, and William O. Butler. In the Indiana
                    congressional delegation, some of the members were playing a game, it seemed, proclaiming to close
                    friends that they were supporters of Douglas while publicly pledging support to Lane. In this group
                    were Willis A. Gorman, a Bright enemy, and Daniel Mace of 
                        Lafayette
                     who was also inclined to support the Wright faction of the party. Graham N. Fitch and
                    Judge James Lockhart were doing what they could for Lane. There was some basis for believing that
                    Lane had a chance since Robinson claimed that the southern Democrats would support Lane while as a
                    class they would not approve of Cass.38
            
            Proof that at least some southerners agreed with Robinson came from a correspondent who wrote Howell
                    Cobb: "Some of the Western men begin to suggest the name of Genl. Lane as a fitting man to
                    rally upon as a compromise in the event of failing to unite upon another. Lane himself is a true
                    Union man, and he and his friends are in good faith the friends of Cass. This
                    idea, or something like it, may grow more important as things are developed." In Indiana,
                    however, the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier, which declared it would support Lane, disapproved of his too liberal
                    views on the Fugitive Slave Law. As early as 1850, Robert Dale Owen had joined the Lane movement, at
                    which time he led at least four Lane meetings in the Hoosier capital. He also wrote an annonymous
                    biography of Lane which was distributed widely. In May, 1852, Owen traveled to 
                        Baltimore
                     in order to add a final word for his candidate.39
            
            
               
                  37 "Some Letters of Jesse D. Bright to William H.
                        English," Indiana Magazine of History, XXX (1934), 374.
               
                  38 William W. Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches
                            of Early Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1883), 417-20.
               
                  39Ulrich R. Phillips (ed.), The Correspondence of Robert
                            Toombs, Alexander H. Stephens, and Howell Cobb, Annual Report of the American Historical
                            Association or the Year 1911 (2 vols., 
                            Washington
                        , 1913), 11, 277-78; Beeler, "The Election of 1852 in Indiana,"
                            Indiana Magazine of History, XI, 303; Leopold, Robert Dale
                            Owen, 294-97.
            
            
            Shortly before the convention, Jesse Bright also had high hopes for Lane. "Genl
                    Cass," he wrote, "however is greatly stronger than any other man. Can he ever get
                    eh. Regard this as Confidental."40
                At the 
                        Baltimore
                     Democratic convention, John W. Davis of Indiana as president exhorted to his fellow
                    delegates that the guiding law of the party should be everything for principle—nothing
                    for men.
            For more than thirty ballots, the Hoosier delegation cast; its vote for Lane, but he was unable to
                    draw any other support. When Douglas took the lead, Jesse Bright switched the delegation to Cass,
                    the second choice of the Indiana Democrats, and the Lane boom was finished and done. 
                        Franklin
                     Pierce, the eventual nominee, was never supported by the Indiana delegates, and
                    therefore he felt no obligation to the Hoosier Democrats for his success.41
            
            The nomination of General Winfield Scott by the Whigs was accepted by the Indiana members with
                    complacence, since they had supported him for a year before the convention. The Indiana
                        State Journal, the party organ with John Defrees at the helm, had long advocated the
                    General's nomination. In northern Indiana, Schuyler Colfax considered Scott safe, believing
                    he would not make devotion to the Compromise a shibboleth of party faith. Not all the Whig leaders,
                    however, were willing to scrap Fillmore. The conservatives were alarmed over the sectional feeling
                    that persisted. Dick Thompson wrote the Indiana delegation to the convention urging them to support
                    the President since it "would be appropriate because the Whig party in Indiana was
                    conservative." The delegates, however, did not heed his advice and never faltered for
                    fifty-three ballots in their support of Scott.42
            
            
               
                  40 "Some Letters of Jesse D. Bright to William H.
                        English," Indiana Magazine of History, XXX, 377.
               
                  41 Leopold, Robert Dale Owen, 297; Roy F. Nichols, The Democratic Machine, 1850-1854 (
                            New York
                        , 1923), 131-44.
               
                  42 Beeler, "The Election of 1852 in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XI, 319-22; Charles Roll,
                        "Richard W. Thompson: A Political Conservative in the Fifties," ibid., XXVII (1931), 187; Willard H. Smith, "Schuyler Colfax: Whig Editor,
                        1845-1855," ibid., XXXIV (1938), 278-79.
            
            
            The national Free Soil convention did not meet until August; the state convention, however, met in
                    May, at which time an attempt was made to renew the party zeal of 1848. At this meeting, the Free
                    Soilers adopted the old Liberty and Abolitionist slogans, although the leaders, George W. Julian and
                    Andrew L. Robinson, were former Whigs. The Journal reported the convention briefly
                    and mentioned the delegates that were to be named to the national convention. They were familiar
                    ones: Stephen C. Stevens, Stephen S. Harding, John B. Semans, Ovid 
                        Butler
                    , James H. Cravens, and Henry L. Ellsworth—all, with the exception of 
                        Butler
                     and Ellsworth who were former Democrats, were long-time Liberty men. When the national
                    convention met in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , George W. Julian was nominated for the vice-presidency, apparently surprising the
                    convention as well as Julian himself. The Convention was, in reality, a throwback to the old Liberty
                    party days. The leader of the Indiana delegation was Stephen S. Harding. After the meeting, the
                    reception of the Hoosiers back in Indiana on the stump was, for the most part, one of neglect,
                    prompting one Free Soil politician to write to the National Era, "We seem
                    to have been slighted by all men… the friends aboard seem to have given us over to our
                    own defence, whilst we had the most powerful odds to contend against of any of the Free
                        States."43 Only in the 
                        Quaker
                     strongholds of the Whitewater did the old Liberty spirit flare up again.
            The campaign of 1852 in Indiana was characterized by a long series of political meetings in all parts
                    of the state. The gubernatorial race resolved itself chiefly around state issues of varying
                    importance. McCarty, the Whig, seemed ready to capitulate long before election day in October, for
                    Joe Wright, his opponent, was impressive in any canvass and the retired noteshaver was no match for
                    the Governor. The Whig press, not so easily discouraged, took aim at the Democratic candidate, but
                    with little effect.44
            
            Wright based his campaign on the claim that the Democrats had freed the state from Whig indebtedness,
                    with an 
                  
                     43
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, May 20, 1852; Theodore C. Smith, The Liberty
                                and Free Soil Parties in the Northwest (
                                New York
                            , 1897), 245-46, 253-54; Grace Julian Clarke, George W. Julian (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1923), 127.
                  
                     44 Woollen in his sketch of Jesse Bright related an incident during
                            which a Whig editor was given political ammunition by the Indiana Senator to fire at Wright.
                                Biographical and Historical Sketches, 224.
               
                     occasional switch to the tariff issue or to the happy sale of
                    the state's interest in the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad.45
            
            The efforts of the Free Soilers in the campaign were generally unsuccessful; their meetings were
                    often disturbed, or even broken up. Andrew L. Robinson, the gubernatorial candidate, who conducted
                    most of his campaign from church pulpits, was not even permitted to speak in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and his fellow party member Stephen S. Harding, the perennial abolitionist, was
                    taunted by Jesse Bright to "quit paddling his little boat in the dirty goosepond of
                    abolitionism." Meanwhile, Julian, the vice-presidential candidate, was having his
                    difficulties: his uncle, David Hoover, announced that he would support the Democracy, whereupon
                    Julian wrote to his elderly relative that since he was beyond the age of political ambition, he
                    could not conscientiously unite with the opposition. Julian had struggled with his conscience some
                    years before on this question, and lost. During the campaign, Robinson reported to Julian, who
                    seemed to be titular head of the party in the state. His listeners, Robinson claimed, agreed that he
                    was right in his views but that he could not be elected since, as he put it, one
                    "can't set niggers free among the white folks." Robinson assured Julian,
                    however, that he planned to continue his crusade after the election and until the slaves were
                        emancipated.46 The Free Soil cause had lost much of its momentum in the
                    state and had reverted back to its original course, albeit a determined one.
            In the presidental campaign, there was again the problem of issues. The military prowess of both
                    candidates, Pierce and Scott, came in for its share of acclaim as well as ridicule. 
                  
                     45 There seems to have been a difference of opinion again between
                            Bright and Wright. In February, Bright praised English for his fight "against the
                            efforts of certain hireling Jobbers to get a road from the ‘Tax
                            payers’ in Ind for $600,000 which is well worth One
                                Million Two Hundred Thousand. John Brough, president of the 
                                Madison
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             Railroad, later governor of 
                                Ohio
                            , attempted to purchase the state's share of the road, while Michael
                            Bright, brother of Jesse, who had a large interest in a railroad being built from 
                                Jeffersonville
                             to 
                                Indianapolis
                            , was attempting to break the 
                                Madison
                             Railroad's hold on trade to the river. Some Letters of Jesse D. Bright
                            to William H. English," Indiana Magazine of History, XXX, 376.
                  
                     46 Beeler, "The Election of 1852 in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XII (1916)) 40; Etta Reeves French,
                            "Stehen S. Harding: A Hoosier Abolitionist," ibid.,
                            XXVII (1931), 224; George W. Julian to David Hoover, 
                                Centerville
                            , Indiana, June 17, 1852, George W. Julian Papers, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; A. L. Robinson to George W. Julian, 
                                Evansville
                            , August 28, 1852, Ibid.
                  
               
                     Both parties sought to capitalize on the anti-Catholic
                    attitudes of their opponnets. The foreign vote appeared to be a ripe plum ready for picking since
                    under the new constitution, more immigrants would be able to cast their ballots. The Whigs hoped to
                    discourage the immigrant vote that normally went to the Democracy while the latter fought to
                    increase it. Another Whig tactic was to sell the national platform to the voters and ignore the
                    political virtues of their candidates; the Scott men also tried to make an issue of the tariff.47
            
            The Democrats, on the other hand, showed comparatively little concern over the campaign. They
                    answered Whig charges with counter thrusts at the declining Whig fortunes. Bright, who furnished his
                    campaigners with material on the amount of money spent by Scott and Pierce during the Mexican War
                    out of the national treasury, confidently wrote to English in the heat of the campaign:
                    "Pierce and King, will distance the track, without much grooming." The theme that
                    the election had resolved itself into a scramble for offices cropped up from time to time.48 The great number of candidates in the field must have helped contribute to
                    this feeling.
            On the eve of the election, the press again made a plea for the finality issue in an effort to give
                    the campaign a sense of importance. A 
                        Logansport
                     Democratic paper announced that the election would turn "principally and
                    really on the finality of the compromise, however much some may attempt to conceal
                    the fact." On the day of the election, the State Journal predicted that
                    the unhappy outcome of a Whig defeat would be the reopening of the slavery question, and that which
                    was so happily settled at the moment, would be lost.49
            
            When the returns of the October elections came in, it was clear that the Whigs had failed in their
                    efforts. One lone 
                  
                     47 W. H. Seward to Schuyler Colfax, July 21, 1852, Schuyler Colfax
                            Papers, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; Beeler, "The Election of 1862 in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XII, 41-44; Smith, "Schuyler Colfax: Whig
                            Editor, 1845-1855," ibid., XXXIV, 279.
                  
                     48 "Some Letters of Jesse D. Bright to William H.
                            English," Indiana Magazine of History, XXX, 378. One Hoosier
                            wrote: "I have been a Democrat ever since I was anything—now when the
                            democrats forget their true principles, and rush without sence [sic],
                            reason or justice to obtain the loaves & fishes, I cannot or will not o with
                            them." John Ketcham to George W. Julian, 
                                Monroe County
                            , Indiana, September 1, 1852, Julian Papers.
                  
                     49 Beeler, "The Election of 1852 in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XII, 47, 48.
               
                     Whig was elected to Congress—Samuel W. Parker of the
                    Whitewater district—while the Democrats swept the rest of the field. Then in November,
                    Pierce carried the day with a plurality of fifteen thousand votes. The Free Soil vote totaled a very
                    disappointing seven thousand; time was running out on their bid for support.
            Nationally, there were those in the Whig party who sensed the significance of their defeat, but when
                    Horace Greeley began the requiem of the Whigs, the Hoosiers, on the whole, refused to believe him.
                    The discontent that had been kept under cover during the campaign began to creep out into: the
                    light; the Webster men who had gone over to Pierce were chided, and Greeley himself was castigated.
                    Schuyler Colfax declared that his paper would remain Whig to the backbone. In 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Dick Thompson voiced similar sentiments. The great conservative position was still
                    meritorious in their eyes. In November, 1853, the 
                  
                            St. Joseph Valley
                         Register announced that "the Whigs are cool, calm,
                    composed— confident that all things will work together correctly for their success in
                        1856."50
            
            The Democracy, meanwhile, had unfinished business in the mill, despite its easy victory in the
                    presidental campaign of 1852. One of the more important matters of party politics was the election
                    of a new 
                        United States
                     Senator to fill the seat left vacant by the death of James Whitcomb. Governor Wright,
                    instead of appointing a new senator, had thrown this task to the legislature to fight it out. Jesse
                    Bright, ever anxious to weld the party bonds securely, advocated the cause of Graham N. Fitch of 
                        Logansport
                    , his political lieutenant in northern Indiana. The doctor was a great political friend
                    of Bright and was intensely loyal to his party—this was his chief claim to political
                    fame. The 
                        Logansport
                     physician had been in politics as an officeholder for more than twenty years. The
                    Wright faction, however, also had its candidates. Among those who entered the race were John Pettit,
                    William J. Brown, Willis A. Gorman, Graham N. Fitch, and the popular Robert Dale Owen. Pettit had
                    flirted with the Free Soil movement and had geographical availability, in that he resided 
                  
                     50 Willard H. Smith, "Schuyler Colfax and the Political
                            Upheaval of 1854-1855," 
                        
                                    Mississippi Valley
                                 Historical Review (Cedar Rapids, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1914-), XXVIII (1941-1942), 384.
               
                     in 
                        Lafayette
                     on the Upper 
                        Wabash
                    . Gorman, although from southern Indiana, was likewise in favor with the anti-Bright
                    forces. Bill 
                        Brown
                     had strayed into the opposition, and as editor of the Sentinel he was
                    in a position to wield a powerful influence. Bright was depending heavily on William English, a
                    member of the legislature, to swing the election to Fitch. Robert Dale Owen, after his work in the
                    constitutional convention, was a formidable candidate, until the politicians began a campaign
                    against him following the ill-fated women's rights episode.51 Owen
                    himself feared this fact prior to the election, for he wrote to Joe Lane: "My course last
                    winter, in regard to radical reforms of our State laws, which, (to speak the honest truth) I think
                        ought to be an argument of some weight in my favor, may become the
                    reverse." The 
                        New Harmony
                     reformer, while he desired the senatorship, was equally interested in securing the post
                    of minister to 
                        Naples
                    . Several of the other candidates for the Senate were members of the House of
                    Representatives, and Owen hoped they would support him for the diplomatic post in order to eliminate
                    him from competing with them in the senatorial race in Indiana. Probably at Bright's
                    request, Lane, the go-between in this case, informed Owen of the political bargain to be struck; in
                    Owen's words, after receiving Lane's letter, he replied: "I…
                    have held myself bound in honor, from the intimations you have given, not to stand in
                    Fitch's way as a candidate…. The effect of this was doubtless favorable to
                    Fitch; as a majority of the votes from our end of the State—all of which would have stood
                    by me to the very last—had him for second choice."52 Thus,
                    by bargaining, Jesse Bright had a hand in strengthening the position of his candidate, Graham N.
                    Fitch.
            Yet when the legislature met, John Pettit of 
                        Lafayette
                     emerged the victor. Bright was furious. He claimed to be at war with those who
                    "prevailed against honest men." He singled out, in particular, Bill 
                        Brown
                     of the Sentinel, declaring that he would not negotiate with 
                        Brown
                     or "buy him out." 
                  
                     51 Thomas B. Helm (ed.), History of 
                                    Cass County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1886), 507-8; A Biographical History of Eminent and Self-Made Men
                                o the State of Indiana (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1880), District 10, pp. 17-18; Leopold, Robert Dale Owen,
                            278-83; Oscar O. Winther (comp.), "Letters from Robert Dale Owen to Joseph
                            Lane," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXVI (1940), 140.
                  
                     52 Winther, "Letters from Robert Dale Owen to Joseph
                            Lane," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXVI, 142, 145.
               
                     As to his new colleague in the Senate, Bright declared that
                    "with Petit I shall have little or nothing to do. I do not recognize him as a gentleman or
                    as my friend, and this you know, is enough to determine my rule of action."53
            
            The senatorial campaign illustrated the Bright strategy and focused attention on the cleavages in the
                    Democracy, which among the political parties was almost alone now in the field. Those who charged
                    that the party had lost its principles to become merely a group of politicians seeking loaves and
                    fishes must have considered factional quarrels like these to be proof of their accusations.54 The politicians had taken to quarreling among themselves.
            At the same time that the Indiana party stalwarts were watching each other and supervising party
                    affairs, all of them had their eyes turned to the growing temperance movement. It appeared to many
                    that the question would create new issues at home. It lacked the sectional aspects of the slavery
                    question and therefore would be fought out in the local sphere. For many years there had been local
                    temperance societies scattered about Indiana, many of which were, to a large extent, the outgrowth
                    of the effort of the Methodist church. The Washingtonian Society in the state in the early forties
                    had given way to the Sons of Temperance first organized at 
                        Brookville
                     in 1845. By 1851, there were reported to be more than three hundred and seventy local
                    societies in Indiana. Unlike the slavery question which gradually revolved from its political
                    aspects to the moral side, temperance began as a moral issue and slowly took on a political
                    coloration. Until 1850, temperance legislation in Indiana was purely local in nature. There were
                    many of these local laws passed by the state legislature, and in 1846, the General Assembly enacted
                        
                  
                     53 Jesse D. Bright to William H. English, January 25, 1853, English
                            Collection.
                  
                     54 Another incident in Bright's political maneuverings which
                            alienated more of the party leaders came when it was learned in Indiana that President-elect
                            Pierce was considering Jefferson Davis of 
                                Mississippi
                             for the cabinet position of secretary of war. Davis had lauded the troops from 
                                Mississippi
                             to the detriment of the Indiana volunteers in the Mexican War. James H. Lane
                            wrote a letter of protest to Bright with the instructions that he present it to Pierce.
                            Instead, the Indiana senator showed the letter privately to Davis, his close friend, and
                            then pocketed it. Lane denounced Bright in scathing terms. Wendell H. Stephenson, The Political Career of James H. Lane, 
                                Kansas
                             State Historical Society Publications (3 vols., 
                                Topeka
                            , 1886-1930), III, 35.
               
                     a law permitting the voters of each township to place the
                    "no license" question on the local ballot.55 Temperance
                    agitation increased during the next few years until in 1853, Governor Wright, an ardent Methodist
                    and temperance advocate, recommended legislation that would regulate the sale of liquor. He
                    specifically asked that drunkenness be made a crime. A committee of the legislature, however,
                    declared that such legislation was inexpedient; instead, it drafted and passed a law which prevented
                    retailing of less than one gallon amounts of liquor except by the local approval of the voters of a
                    township. Later in the year, in a test case, the state Supreme Court ruled that the local option
                    feature of the law was unconstitutional; as a result, the state went back to the old system.
            There was no end, however, to the signing of pledges and the holding of temperance conventions. The
                    state convention in 
                        Madison
                     in September, 1853, pledged itself to support candidates to the state legislature
                    independent of party affilations. The Methodists also continued their efforts to get political
                    action and at the Northern Indiana Conference in the same year resolved that it would "vote
                    for no man for political office unless he stand pledged in favor of temperance reformation and be
                    its advocate."56
            
            The Whig party, desperately in need of new political stimulants to revive its failing health, seems
                    to have accepted the temperance cause with enthusiasm, while the Democrats generally were more
                    reluctant to attempt to outshout their rivals on the question. One rebuttal used by the Democrats
                    was that temperance was a moral question and not a political one. The presence of the 
                        German
                     element in the Democracy gave its leaders pause before they spoke, although there was
                    certainly no doubt as to the sentiments of the Governor on the subject. The Whig Journal, by reporting that thirty-three of the forty-four liquor dealers in 
                        Indianapolis
                     were 
                  
                     55
                            
                                Canup
                            , "Temperance Movements and Legislation in Indiana," Indian Magazine of History, XVI, 17; Laws of Indiana,
                            General, 1846, p. 46.
                  
                     56 Charles Zimmerman, "The Origin and Rise of the Republican.
                            Party in Indiana from 1854 to 1860," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XIII (1917), 213; Esarey, History of Indiana, II, 617; H. N. Herrick and
                            William W. Sweet, A History of the North Indiana Conference of the Methodist
                                Episcopal Church (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1917), 43.
               
                     Germans wielded a two-edge sword to fight the cause of both
                    nativism and temperance.
            The temperance question was growing in importance, becoming an issue in politics that was no longer
                    to be handled as a legislative favor. It is not to be doubted that there was an ever-increasing
                    sense of moral fervor in the air or that some politicians saw in it an opportunity to whip up the
                    electorate in their favor. Yet, there was a new aspect to the question that made temperance a more
                    difficult problem for the politician of Indiana. Prior ‘to the new constitution of 1851,
                    as many as twenty local laws a year had been passed regulating the sale of liquor in a particular
                    locality. The law of 1847, although general in nature, had provided that a majority vote in each
                    township should decide the issue for. each particular community. The law of 1853, although more
                    stringent, also had a local option clause which proved to be its downfall when it was tested in the
                    courts, for the judges of the state Supreme Court ruled that under the new constitution, the
                    legislature could not shirk its responsibility of making general laws. The people, it ruled could
                    not make the rules of "license" or "no license" in a local
                    community: this was the duty of its chosen representatives in the General Assembly. The constitution
                    of the state had been formulated "to restore the state from being a coterie of small
                    independencies." There should be a "unity throughout her borders."57 This meant that if temperance now should come into the legislative sphere,
                    politicians would be acting for the entire state and could not hide behind the shield of local law.
                    This fact threw temperance as well as other matters of law into a new light. The success or failure
                    of the movement fell directly on the shoulders of the politicians, acting for the entire citizenry
                    of the state. Thus temperance moved into a wider sphere of political action since whatever course it
                    took, it would apply to the entire population of the state. At this level, it could very well become
                    a party issue, and being a moral issue, temperance could create havoc within the parties themselves,
                    perhaps even fathering a new party. These were all within the realm of possibility, depending on the
                    way men chose to react to the problem.
            
               
                  57
                        Maize v. The State, 4 Indiana. Reports, 342-51.
            
            
            The editor of the New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Ledger, a strong Democratic voice in southern Indiana, was concerned, as were many
                    other politically-minded men of Indiana, when he wrote: "In the political world of Indiana,
                    the 
                        Maine
                     law liquor men are carrying every thing before them. Last Saturday, they had a large
                    convention at the court house and nominated delegates to the state convention which you will see by
                    the papers. The issue the next election will be the 
                        Maine
                     Law, the thing is certain."58 This was an early estimate
                    of the situation as seen through the eyes of a Bright Democrat.
            There were others on the scene who ventured a prediction on the political weather of the future. In 
                        Cincinnati
                    , a correspondent of Governor Wright who was preparing a campaign for the Hoosier
                    Democrat which was to begin with a few nonpolitical articles in the Western Christian
                        Advocate, wrote to the Governor: "We hope to see you our next President and at
                    least vice do, or in the cabinet." In 
                        South Bend
                    , late in the year, an editorial appeared with the comforting words that "The
                    Whigs are cool, calm, composed—confident that all things will work together correctly for
                    their success in 1856." From his home in 
                        Centerville
                    , George Julian informed William Lloyd Garrison that "the cause [antislavery]
                    is passing through a transition period, from unpopular to popular. The slave power has itself become
                    a most efficient helper in its own destruction. Its unhallowed rule has at length set the world to
                    thinking, its great heart to beating and its great voice to agitating."59
            
            Politics and weather have in common the element of sudden change, and these political weather
                    prophets, unable to look beyond the horizon, could not see that the sectional storm clouds that had
                    once safely passed over, were now returning with added momentum. In January, 1854, the storm broke:
                    the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Bill was introduced in Congress.
            
               
                  58 L. G. Mathews to William H. English, New 
                            Albany
                        , December 21, 1853, English Collection.
               
                  59 John D. Elbert to Joseph A. Wright, 
                            Cincinnati
                        , July 9, 1853, Joseph A. Wright Papers, Indiana State Library; Smith,
                        "Schuyler Col-fax: Whig Editor," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, XXXIV, 280-81; George W. Julian to William Lloyd Garrison, 
                            Centerville
                        , November 18, 1853, Julian Papers.
            
         
         
         
            Settlers on Corn Belt Soil
            Richard Lyle Power*
            
            
                    "We are dooing better….""They make their money off
                        corn & Hogs."
                
            "Where the corn shoots twenty feet high into the sun, and every ear yields five hundredfold,
                    the stature of the planter is dwarfed. Man is made more than a little lower than the grain he
                        hoes."1 So sings a prose-poem of America's cornfields, and
                    cornfields deserve their poets, despite anachronisms such as hoes and very tall stalks.
            Corn, America's most important and distinctive crop, was itself a pioneer, growing under
                    primitive conditions before other crops could flourish, its kernels edible a bare three weeks after
                    pollination, yielding twice as much food per acre as any other cereal. From the beginning it rated
                    in the West as a "sure" crop. "No farmer can live without it, and
                    hundreds raise little else," affirmed a gazetteer of 
                        Illinois
                     in 1834. Even in valueless oversupply it afforded the best-grounded hopes for the
                        future.2 To stress corn is not to belittle other products of western
                    soil—wheat, oats, hay and grass, fruits and garden produce—yet corn became the
                    pivot around which ranged lesser crops and the different phases of animal husbandry.
            Men of imagination have always stirred to the abundance, incredible in acres or bushels, of the
                    American maize crop. Truly told or exaggerated marvel-pieces about corn are an important part of
                    what people believed, felt, and expected 
                  
                     * Richard Lyle Power, formerly of St. Lawrence University,
                            now lives in 
                                Indianapolis
                            . This paper is a portion from a book which is planned for publication in 1953
                            by the Indiana Historical Society on the contact of Yankee and Upland southern cultures in
                            the Midwest. Preparation of the book was encouraged by a grant from the American
                            Philosophical Society, 
                                Philadelphia
                            .
                  
                     1 Dorothy Giles, Singing Valleys: The Story of Corn (
                                New York
                            , 1940), 83. Of general interest is Louise Bercaw, et. al., Corn in
                                the Development of the Civilization of the Americas (
                                Washington
                            , 1940).
                  
                     2 L. H. Bailey (ed.), Cyclopedia of American
                            Agriculture (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1907-1909), II, 398; E. C. Kirkland, A History of American
                                Economic Life (
                                New York
                            , 1932),. 53; J. Howard Kempton, Maize—Our Heritage from
                                the Indians (
                                Washington
                            , 1938); Diary of Enoch Honeywell, 117, Indiana State Library; J. M. Peck, A Gazetteer of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                Jacksonville
                            , 1834), 29; John Scott, The Indiana Gazetteer (Centreville,
                            Indiana, 1826), 24; The Plough, the Loom, and the Anvil (10 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1848-1857), VIII (August, 1855), 95; Springfield, Illinois, Sangamo Journal, June 25, 1846, signed "J.S.W."
               
                     of the West. One may be impressed by the Quakerly restraint of
                    youthful Addison Coffin, fresh from 
                        North Carolina
                    , who saw in 1544 all along the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                     in western Indiana "corn pens with an almost unlimited supply of corn for any
                    market that opened." Or one may be entertained by the palaver of Hezekiah Park that on
                    certain of his farms his 1840 crop would equal the cost of the farms. Furthermore, he could see to
                    corn planting in 
                        Illinois
                     in the spring, supervise haying in 
                        Vermont
                     in August, then be in 
                        Texas
                     for cotton picking in the fall "and take comfort the whole round."3
            
            Wonder stories from the valleys of the West began to trickle eastward in the latter 1700's.
                    "It is a fact," runs a letter from the Muskingum Valley of 
                        Ohio
                     in 1788, "that they drove a stake into a cornhill and measured the corn, and
                    that in 24 hours it grew 9 1/2 inches." Later, fields of a thousand acres were reported
                    from 
                        Ohio
                    , "all of corn & very stout," tall enough to
                    hide a man on horseback; which jibes poorly with a Southerner's description in 1834 of New 
                        England
                     maize: five feet high fully grown on rich land, with small and very yellow kernels and
                    ears. To convey the outsize proportions of western corn taxed the imagination of more than one
                    Yankee. "It grows very tall," one of them explained, "I think about as
                    high as the top of our old shed between the Barn[s]."4
            
            A favorite metaphor called the great cornfields "seas" or
                    "oceans." "Only conceive in your own mind a vast plain as far as the eye
                    can reach, waiveing as the sea, groaning under from 60 to 70 bushels of corn to the acre, and you
                    can have some idea of the corn crop of 
                        Illinois
                    ," was one word picture posted to 
                        Virginia
                    . A Down East youth scarcely knew whether to be more excited over the surfeiting
                    wagonloads of 
                        Illinois
                     watermelons or 
                        Illinois
                    
                    
                  
                     3
                            Life and Travels of Addison Coffin Written by Himself (
                                Cleveland
                            , 1897), 77; Hezekiah Park, Circleville, 
                                Illinois
                            , to Thadius Bancroft, Grafton, 
                                Vermont
                            , September 28, 1840, 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society Library, 
                                Springfield
                            .
                  
                     4 "News from the Muskingum," 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 State Archaeological and Historical Quarterly (
                                Columbus
                            , 1887-), XLVI (1936), 209; Journal and Letters of Col. John May,
                                of 
                                    Boston
                                … in 1788 and ‘89 (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1873), 55; C. E. Eaton, Waverly, 
                                Ohio
                            , to his Brother, Candia Turnpike, 
                                New Hampshire
                            , July 4, 1837, 
                                Ohio
                             State Archaeological and Historical Society, Columbus, Ohio; Southern Literary Messenger (38 vols., Richmond, Virginia, 1835-1864), I, 168;
                            Calvin Fletcher, Urbana, Ohio, to Jesse Fletcher, Ludlow, 
                                Vermont
                            , July 25, 1818, Indiana Historical Society Library.
               
                     corn. His emotion, however, upon visiting a sixty-acre
                    maizefield in September may well have moved his correspondents to come out and see for themselves:
                    "as I strolled through it, I could but laugh heartily, for it seemed as though I was in a
                    world of corn. I could see nothing else except the sun which heated the black soil so hot that I
                    could scarcely bear my hand on it."5
            
            Wonder sometimes took the form of chronic folk query: can you hear corn grow in hot
                    weather? An affirmative answer, nobly felt, advises you to go at night so deep into a
                    cornfield that you are surrounded by corn higher than your head. You will have placed yourself in a
                    special world. "But listen!" It cannot be the wind for there is no wind.
                    "There is a whisper, a faint crackling, coming from no where and everywhere at once. It
                    might be the ghost of a sound, imagined perhaps. But listen again!
            "It is the minute stretching of a billion corn leaves, stalks, husks, kernels. It is the
                    dark chemistry of earth, working upward through roots, drawing up through the standing plants,
                    transmitting the essences of soil into life. It is the sound of growth, a sound perhaps heard by
                    insects and other lowly creatures as a veritable roar of creation.
            "You are as close, here to the inner quick of nature as ever you'll be. You are
                    listening to the growth of corn, America's annual renewal of plant substance."6
            
            In a way the proudest cornstory came from a farmer near 
                        Peoria
                     who explained for his father in 
                        Virginia
                     how to gather one hundred bushels of corn a day, an accomplishment dually pleasing
                    because it required corn "very stout" as well as a
                    "good" man.
                  
                     
                        "It is now five O clock, Monday morning and brekfast is a bout ready. will
                                    you believe that I can pick one hundred bushels in one day. well I done it one or
                                    two days. they is olly one way you can do it that is husk in lands pick two roes by
                                    the side of the wagon keep your left arm up your left hand pointing towards the
                                    point of the ear ketch it 
                              
                                 5 "Emigrants to 
                                                Ohio
                                             and 
                                                Illinois
                                            ," Tyler's Quarterly Historical
                                                and Genealogical Magazine (Richmond, Virginia, 1919-), VII (July,
                                            1925), 92; James L. Welsh, Macomb, 
                                                Illinois
                                            , August 31, 1860; Ebenezer Welch, Monmouth, 
                                                Illinois
                                            , to his parents, Monmouth, 
                                                Maine
                                            , September 19, 1841. 
                                                Chicago
                                             Historical Society.
                              
                                 6
                                            
                                                Wayne
                                             Guthrie, "Ringside in Hoosierland," 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            
                                            News, Sep-temper 2, 1952.
                           
                                     with your right. make but to grabs at one ear.
                                    and you can do it make the ears pass one another if you can."
                     
                  
               
               7
            
            But one should proceed no further without noting the second party in the corn-hog duo. It is legend
                    that on the strong soils of the West hogs were propagated by planting pigtails bent into U-shapes as
                    one would raise onions from sets, except that two new pigs grew from each pigtail.8 Yet, legend is scarcely less credible than the cool vital statistics of swine. A brace of
                    writers have lately reviewed the singular efficacy of the hog as a meat animal as demonstrated in
                    wartime when meat is wanted in a hurry.
            Nature, the hog's briefholders say, takes three months, three weeks, and three days to
                    deliver a litter of eight or more piglets. In six months more a good stockman can bring these to
                    marketable maturity. So in ten or eleven months you can have hams on the hook or loins on the block.
                    Moreover, the swine's reproductive cycle may be exercised twice a year, ordinarily spring
                    and fall. This while the cow carries her one calf nine months, and fifteen more are required for the
                    calf to grow into meat. Also, as a food factory the hog is the most efficient of all animals. He can
                    store in his body up to thirty-five per cent of the energy contained in all he consumes. Sheep and
                    cattle retain about a third as much.9
            
            Because mountains of corn were translated into pork so were many wonder stories told in terms of
                    swine. The crux of corn-on-the-hoof stories remained constant: "We doubt whether the annals
                    of farming can produce many specimens of more easily grown, profitable crops," as The 
                            Prairie
                         Farmer once put it. Thus a Bay State friend of William Bacon, who lived near 
                        Indianapolis
                    , thought the hundred hogs Bacon was feeding the summer of 1845 would in a single week
                    eat all the corn in his native township of Williamstown. Bacon expected to make a thousand dollars
                    from the venture. A decade earlier an editor at 
                        Brookville
                    , in southeastern Indiana, marveled at the columns of hogs, totaling thirty thousand
                    perhaps—old settlers had never seen such numbers—driven 
                  
                     7 J. W. Davis, French Grove, 
                                Illinois
                            , to his father, Triadelphia, 
                                Virginia
                            , December 22, 1862, West 
                                Virginia
                             University Library.
                  
                     8 Transcript of the Memoirs of 
                                Milton
                             Stapp, Indiana Historical Society Library.
                  
                     9 C. W. Towne and E. N. Wentworth, Pigs: From Cave to Com
                                Belt (Norman, Oklahoma, 1950), 7.
               
                     toward 
                        Cincinnati
                     during three November weeks. Some days it seemed as if the vast arena of
                    nature's storehouse was filled with hogs, all from one small section of the state.10
            
            It required self-restraint not to spill over in wonderment at some part of the yearly pork traffic.
                    "The ringing crack of the whip and the whoop of the driver in our streets reminds us that
                    the Hog season is again upon us," exclaimed another editor, also at the sight of swine en
                    route to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . For these pre-railroad times were the heyday of the drovers, said to collect as many
                    as a thousand hogs at once, one driver to each hundred swine. Some of these men were folk heroes of
                    a sort, as in 
                        Rush County
                    , Indiana, prideful of its maize and swine, where the name of "Hog"
                    Walker is remembered.11
            
            Lesser men trafficked in lesser marvels. For countless farmers from the older states the cornlands
                    meant at first humble security for beast and man. 
                        Illinois
                     soil reassured a Yankee who had escaped anxiety over grain rations for his livestock.
                    Now he could work his horses every day and keep them fat and active as colts because "I
                    have plenty of grain and don't keep them on cob meal." A brother
                    Yankee included among "good things" of that country "Plenty of Grain
                    which makes large fat horses and cattle."12
            
            A Virginian compared grazing in Indiana and 
                        Virginia
                    : "Dare is Beder grass in the roads and woods here [Indiana] than eveary i had
                    in my fields in Dare[.]" Nor did the grasslands of 
                        Illinois
                     go unacclaimed. Acres by the million were wasting. Grass upon which cattle would become
                    more fat than upon the best clover pastures in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ; on which good horses could be raised at a cost each of ten dollars a year.13
            
            
               
                  10
                        The 
                                Prairie
                             Farmer (
                            Chicago
                        , 1841-), X (May, 1850), 140; A. W. Blair, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , to Edwin Blair, Williamstown, 
                            Massachusetts
                        , June 30, 1846, Indiana State Library; Joseph W. Walker, "Hoosier
                        Pioneers," Indiana Magazine of History (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1905-), XX (1924), 78.
               
                  11
                        
                            New Castle
                        , Indiana, Courier, November 23, 1844; Mary M. Alexander and
                        Capitols. Guffin Dill (eds.), Sketches of 
                                Rush County
                            , Indiana (
                            Rushville
                        , 1915), 49.
               
                  12 Paul M. Angle, "The Story of an Ordinary Man," Journal of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society (
                            Springfield
                        , 1908-), XXXIII (1940), 224; Solon J. Buck (ed.), "Pioneer Letters of
                        Gershom Flagg," Transactions of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society for the Year 1910 (
                            Springfield
                        , 1912), 147.
               
                  13 Matthias Bowman, Cicero, Indiana, to his brother, Rockingham County, 
                            Virginia
                        , June 14, 1857, Wayland Papers, University of 
                            Virginia
                        ; 
                            Springfield
                        , 
                            Illinois
                        , Sangamo Journal, February 1, 1834, February 2, 1832; Percy W.
                        Bidwell and John I. Falconer, History of Agriculture in the Northern 
                                United States
                            , 1620-1860 (
                            Washington
                        , 1925), 447.
            
            
            The gazetteer-maker was doubtless on sound ground ill noting in the early 1830's that
                    western cows produced less milk and of lesser richness than did those of the older states. But Corn
                    Belt soil lay ready as a prime mover in making over cows everywhere. Dairying with the benefit of
                    its grass and grain was bound to bring revelations. From Quincy, Illinois, the word was:
                    "The 
                        Prairie
                     grass makes the Richest milk that I ever drank. It is rich with Cream. God willing, I hope to have a cow soon that will give butter in pound
                    Rools—which will save the Churning." While another, buoyed by western abundance,
                    scribed to 
                        North Carolina
                    : "We have 2 of the best cows in Indiana one of them is worthe 3 Carolina
                        cowese."14
            
            Unaccustomed ease of human subsistence went along with easy fodder for stock. "I think as
                    near as I can calculate I can support my Family on less than one half the labour that I could in 
                        Maine
                    ," was a judgment reiterated before the writer had finished his sheet. Messages
                    to 
                        Virginia
                     were in the same tenor. "We have got more meat and bread stuf together now and
                    got it paid for than we would have had in 
                        Virginia
                     in a whole year," declared a couple recently settled in Indiana. Another
                    Virginian in 
                        Ohio
                     thought he was "a doing a graite Deel better then I did in thare for I have
                    plenty of Every thing that I want."15
            
            Certainly ease of subsistence varied with individual cases and from time to time and place to place.
                    Having relatives or acquaintances in the new location was a help. But in a new country where, as a
                    touring Englishman remarked, every ear of corn meant a meal for a hungry man, where labor could be
                    readily bartered for provision, and in spite of indifferent 
                  
                     14 Peck, A Gazetteer of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 40; C. I. Swartwout, Quincy, Illinois, to Robert Swartwout, 
                                New York City
                            , May 22, 1837, 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society; George M. Frank, 
                                Hamilton
                             County, Indiana, to 
                                North Carolina
                            , April 10, 1859, Duke University Library. In 1850 the average annual yield per
                            milch cow was 700 quarts; ninety years later it was 2,000 quarts. W. A. Wentworth,
                            "Diary Industry," Dictionary of American History (5
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1940), II, 104.
                  
                     15 E. E. Day, Munsontown, 
                                Illinois
                            , to E. F. Day, Phillips, 
                                Maine
                            , March 13, 1846, Day Collection, 
                                Wisconsin
                             Historical Society; Anderson and Lydia Moore, Deer Creek, 
                                Henry County
                            , Indiana, to Philip and Barbara A. Bible, Rockingham County, 
                                Virginia
                            , January 13, 1855, Way-land Papers; John W. Brock, Seneca County, 
                                Ohio
                            , to Moses Bowman, Timberville, Rockingham County, 
                                Virginia
                            , February 14, 1858, Wayland Papers.
               
                     care, vegetables flourished in a soil of unrivaled depth,
                    fertility, and freshness, the spector of hunger could be only temporary. This point was not lost on
                    a Marylander who after calling the state of 
                        Illinois
                     by pretty names, more surely based security upon the agrarian maxim "you know
                    where the farmer can live, no class need starve."16
            
            All this had been anticipated by Colonel John May who came out to the Yankee settlement on the
                    Muskingum in 1788. For several days past, according to the July 24th entry in his journal, they had
                    enjoyed plenty of Vegetables. No market in the world would have a greater variety of good things
                    than the settlement would have in the fall, the more extraordinary because six weeks before, the
                    garden spot had borne lofty trees of the forest "from eight to ten rods long." At
                    mid-July he had inscribed: "Eat green peas to-day from my own garden, planted exactly five
                    weeks ago…. Things do grow amazingly!"17
            
            Then tillage in the West vexed the human spirit less; though as one guidebook put it the labors of
                    the husbandman were as arduous as in New 
                        England
                     during the first three years; after that, much lighter. First came the hackneyed
                    narrative—each had his own version—of a substantial harvest with almost no
                    preparatory labor; a cornfield of say thirty acres, the seed covered by brushing in, never
                    cultivated, and the ripened crop would yield twenty to thirty bushels to the acre.18
            
            Back to 
                        Virginia
                     went the assurance from a farmer who had seen how much easier cropping was in 
                        Ohio
                    : "And I would Not [raise] Corn in thare again—Not if thay would
                    give me all the land that lyes between the Strait and the mouth of Runnions Creek." Another
                    contrasted plowing in Old 
                        Virginia
                    , "steep, rocky, sprouty," with turning his ground in 
                        Illinois
                    , "level, smooth and rich, and not a sprout on it big enough to whip an old cat
                    with!" A Carolinian gave terse notice that he would rather farm in 
                        Illinois
                     than among the rocks of his home state.19
            
            
               
                  16 Peck, A Gazetteer of 
                                Illinois
                            
                  , 28, 40, 41; James H. Smith, 
                            Buffalo
                         Grove, 
                            Illinois
                        , to David Ports, Boonesborough, 
                            Maryland
                        , January 28, 1840, 
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Society Library.
               
                  17
                        Journal and Letters of Col. John May, 83, 85, 89.
               
                  18 A. D. Jones, 
                     
                                Illinois
                             and the West (
                            Boston
                        , 1838), 149; Ebenezer Welch, Monmouth, 
                            Illinois
                        , to his parents, Monmouth, 
                            Maine
                        , September 19, 1841, 
                            Chicago
                         Historical Society.
               
                  19 John W. Brock, Seneca County, 
                            Ohio
                        , to Moses Bowman, Timberville, Rockingham County, 
                            Virginia
                        , February 14, 1868, Wayland Papers. Runyan's Creek flows through
                        Rockingham County; Brock's reference to "the Strait" remains obscure.
                        "Emigrants to 
                            Ohio
                         and 
                            Illinois
                        ," Tyler's Quarterly Historical and Genealogical
                            Magazine, VII, 90; James L. Welsh, Middle Port, 
                            Illinois
                        , to his mother, Rockbridge County, 
                            Virginia
                        , March 5, 1854; Jacob Patterson, Elbridge, Edgar County, 
                            Illinois
                        , to Robert Hanner, 
                     Guilford County,
                                North Carolina
                  , August 22, 1849,
                        Robert Hanner Papers, Duke University Library.
            
            
            Plenteous feed made horses more numerous than in the older states. Cultivation by horsepower tended
                    to supplant the use of hoes except for chopping weeds. It is not surprising that the commerce to the
                    East in horses increased, engaging western farmers like the one who inquired of his brother the
                    price of horses in 
                        Massachusetts
                    , "the most fashionable colours and all about them. it is probable I may
                    sometime fetch you some of them if they bear a good price I can get good horses here for 50
                        Doll[ar]s."20
            
            Whatever the degree of advantage, farm-making on the sodlands wrote its own chapter in ease of
                    cultivation. Treeless prairies with names such as Two Mile, Pretty, English, Portage, Mongoquanong,
                    Rolling, and Door were "greedily pounced upon." "I can never endure the
                    thought since I have seen the prairies of gowing in to a timbered country to settle," wrote
                    a Vermonter from near 
                        Chicago
                    : "we can have our farmes as well subdued in five years here as any one can in
                    a timbered country in twenty." To another the taming of treeless soil amounted to an
                    "immense diminution" of labor; for 
                        Illinois
                    , he thought, nature had done everything except fencing and breaking the sod, whereas in 
                        Ohio
                     one had to toil and tug for years to level the forest. and clear the land. Henry L.
                    Ellsworth, with a promoter's eye on the valley of the Upper 
                        Wabash
                    , estimated that the virgin grasslands could be brought into complete cultivation at a
                    cost one-fourth to three-fourths of clearing forest.21
            
            Reckonings of the comparative returns from labor probably went most directly to the heart of the
                    matter. A young man from 
                        Maine
                     thought that in 
                        Illinois
                     ten bushels of corn could be produced as easily as one bushel in 
                        Maine
                    . A Carolinian 
                  
                     20 Peck, A Gazetteer of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 38, 147; C. E. Eaton, Waverly, 
                                Ohio
                            , to Thomas Anderson Candia Turnpike, 
                                New Hampshire
                            . July 4, 1837, 
                                Ohio
                             State Archaeological and Historical Society; Asher Edgerton, Quincy, Illinois,
                            to Elisha Edgerton, Connecticut, May 28 1842, Illinois State Historical Society; Christopher
                            R. Denny, Leicester, hassachusetts, to T. V. Denny, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , July 19, 1822, Indiana State Library.
                  
                     21 Chas. C. Chapman & Co., History of 
                                    Elkhart
                                 County, Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1881), 391; Daniel Goodnough, Des Plaines River, 
                                Illinois
                            , to John M. Goodnough, Brandon, 
                                Vermont
                            , January 1, 1837; James H. Smith, Elk Horn &ove, 
                                Illinois
                            , to David Ports, Boonesborough, 
                                Maryland
                            , April 16, 1839, 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society Library; Sring-field, 
                                Illinois
                            , Sangamo Journal, October 29, 1846; Elmore Barce, Annals of 
                                    Benton County
                                
                      (Fowler, Indiana, 1925), 50-51.
               
                     thought that farming effort in 
                        Brown
                     County, 
                        Illinois
                    , yielded five times its equivalent applied in the Old North State; while another
                    Tarheel adjudged that in the same 
                        Illinois
                     county, where eight or ten ears grew in every hill, a hand could raise twelve to
                    fifteen hundred bushels of corn in a season. Back home the return would be around one hundred
                    bushels: "It looks like doing some good." Thus whether the gauge was bushels,
                    acres or effort, whether the comparison was with 
                        Maine
                    , Carolinia, York State or 
                        Maryland
                    , the advantage was always in favor of the West, and never much less than three to
                        one.22
            
            The cornfields made, over the decades, "corn-hog" farmers by the hundreds of
                    thousands, who best typify the Midwest farming interest and whose sons in the twentieth century
                    continue to hail the swine as a "mortgage lifter" and "farmer's
                    friend when it comes to revenue for the family." They have made farmers who during a
                    century and a quarter have been so comparatively independent with one principal source of
                    income—the top of the cycle came at the time hogs were sold and superseded Christmas as a
                    time for paying debts—that they have held innovation at a minimum.23
            
            By the eve of the Civil War the cornlands were about to breed a host of farmers proudly rich, yet
                    proud of their impoverished beginnings. "I have made considerable money here and layed out
                    considerable and I have something to show for it," remarked an Old Dominion man
                    complacently. "Christian has got him self a home in 
                        Illinois
                    ," another Virginian wrote of his brother, "and is as sausy about it
                    as a jay in a corn field. He has got a piece of land that can't be beat." 
                  
                     22 Ebenezer Welch, Monmouth, 
                                Illinois
                            , to his parents, Monmouth 
                                Maine
                            , September 19, 1841, 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society; William and Christina Boss, 
                        Versailles, Brown
                      County, 
                                Illinois
                            , to relatives in 
                                North Carolina
                            , May 2, 1858; B. H. Frank, Buck Horn, 
                                Brown
                             County, 
                                Illinois
                            , to Alexander Frank, Cedar Bush, 
                                North Carolina
                            , November 27, 1857, F. L. Alexander Collection, Duke University Library;
                            Anthony M. Hoffman, Rushville, Illinois, to John Reid, Argyle, 
                                New York
                            , November 1, 1833; James H. Smith, Mt. Morris, 
                                Illinois
                            , to David Ports, Boones-borough, 
                                Maryland
                            , November 23, 1846, 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society Library.
                  
                     23 Rolland L. Whitson (ed.), Centennial History of 
                                    Grant County
                                , Indiana, 1812 to 1912 (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1914), I, 91; Branson L. Harris, Some Recollections of My
                            Boyhood (
                                Indianapolis
                            , n.d.), 59-60. Present dependence upon income from swine is suggested by a
                            report of Purdue University's farm account program: the cash income of 587 farmers
                            was, 1951, from hogs, 39 per cent; crops 18 per cent; beef cattle 14 per cent; poultry and
                            eggs 7 per cent; and 7 per cent from other sources. Though the proportion of income from
                            swine is impressive, one should be aware that 587 cases may not represent a true cross
                            section. Frank Salzarulo, "The Rural Route," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 4, 1952.
               
                     Farmers of such prospects and feelings were on their way to
                    financial independence. The finely engraved portraits of our ancestors, their biographical sketches
                    and implausible lithographic farmsteads in the county histories of the 1880's witness the
                    latter phase. Continuing satisfaction from Corn Belt realty is certain: "To have been a
                    pioneer was an honor," wrote a county historian, "but to possess a landed estate
                    in 
                        Warren county
                     in 1912 is to be happy and contented."24
            
            Men have designated the cornlands as a place of rationality, prosperity and happiness; of
                    intelligence, contentment and independence; the social and economic bulwark of the nation, and the
                    embodiment of the best there is in the ideal Americanism. Without attempting judgment of these
                    qualities one may venture that the acclimatization of men to corn-land soil was largely a matter of
                    adapting their feelings and designs to material abundance, of rerating their standards of effort and
                    personal fortune, all of which rested upon one of the best-balanced farming
                    economies—between men, livestock, crops, and machines—on the planet. This
                    means that the farmer during three seasons spends about half his time and that of his motive power
                    on his corn crop. A happy combination of farm and factory also makes for stability. During the years
                    1909-1920 the Indiana corn crop fluctuated less than ten per cent from the average yield. In farming
                    vernacular Corn Belt diversity and equilibrium has meant, even in the face of a short yield of corn,
                    that "If we would just have faith and trust and work on, things will even up by the time
                    the year will round up."25
            
            Authorities have defined the Corn Belt as that area of the 
                        United States
                     where corn is the major crop—the largest area in the world with fertile
                    soil, rainfall of ten to fourteen inches following planting, and a mean average temperature 
                  
                     24 J. W. Davis, French Grove, 
                                Illinois
                            , to his father at Triadelphia, 
                                Virginia
                            , December 22, 1862, West 
                                Virginia
                             University Library; Tyler's Quarterly Historical and
                                Genealogical Magazine, VII, 91; James L. Welsh, Panola, 
                                Illinois
                            , to his mother, Rockbridge County, 
                                Virginia
                            , August 26, 1853; Thomas A. Clifton (ed.), Past and Present of 
                                    Fountain
                                 and 
                                    Warren Counties
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1913), 285.
                  
                     25 Paul Weatherwax, The Story of the Maize Plant (
                                Chicago
                            , 1923), 2, 217-19; L. E. Klimm, et al., Introduction to Economic
                                Geography (
                                New York
                            , 1937), 151; Henry A. Wallace and Earl N. Bressman, Corn and Corn
                                Crowing (5th ed.; 
                                New York
                            , 1949), 18; Ray Allen Billington, "Origins of Middle Western
                            Isolationism," Political Science Quarterly
                                    (
                        Boston; New York
                     , 1886-), LX (1945), 51; Stephen S. Visher,
                            "The Geography of Indiana, Handbook of Indiana Geology (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1922), 25; L. M. Crist, History of 
                                    Boone County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1914), I, 138.
               
                     around tasseling time of 70 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit. Never
                    long fixed, the bounds of the Corn Belt shift with weather, the use of machinery, improved strains
                    of seed, pests, competing crops, prices, transport, and markets.26
            
            Thus no one will suppose that the Corn Belt sprang suddenly into its twentieth-century peripheries
                    and might. It is interesting that no written use prior to 1884 has been reported of the term Corn
                    Belt. As late as 1846 De Bow's Review referred to 
                        North Carolina
                     as still being a great corn-growing state. For the year 1859, fifteen Southern States
                    claimed fifty-two per cent of the nation's bushels of corn. But in this latter year 
                        Illinois
                     took the lead, followed by 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Missouri
                    , and the corn map began to foretell its twentieth-century bounds and accents.27 At the turn of the new century, Fred A. Shannon has pointed out, twelve North
                    Central States, which contain almost the entire Corn Belt, with only 3 quarter of the
                    nation's land and a third of its farm population, grew or had: 71 per cent of the
                    nation's corn, 64 per cent of its wheat, 77 per cent of its oats, 64 per cent of its hogs,
                    52 per cent of its horses, 58 per cent each of its hay, barley, and potatoes, and 44 per cent of
                    cattle of all sorts. With this "granary and larder," Shannon concluded, no other
                    section could even vaguely compare.28
            
            America's corn crop of 1946, for example, totaled over 3.28 billion bushels, more than
                    three-fifths of the world's crop. It afforded twenty-three bushels—ten ears a
                    day—for each American. Yet the annual direct food-use of corn was around sixty-five
                    pounds. This means that the American people do their dining as it were in an upper chamber, on
                    refined products such as pork, beef, dairy products, poultry, and eggs, while industry (about twelve
                    per cent) and animal feed (about eight per cent) account for the bulk of the crop. Of the latter
                    hogs eat forty per cent; cattle eat twenty-one per cent, of which dairy cows take half; poultry,
                    thirteen per 
                  
                     26 Wallace and Bressman, Corn and Corn Gowing, 413,
                            15, 13-14.
                  
                     27 William A. Craigie and James R. Hulbert (eds.), A
                                Dictionary of American English on Historical Principles (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1938), I, 623; The Commercial Review of the South and West
                            (8 vols., 
                                New Orleans
                            , 1846-1850), I, 480; Lewis C. Gray, History of Agriculture in the
                                Southern. 
                                    United States
                                 to 1850 (
                                Washington
                            , 1933), 811; Bidwell and Falconer, History of Agriculture in the
                                Northern 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 339-49.
                  
                     28 Fred A. Shannon, "The Status of the Midwestern Farmer in
                            1900, 
                        
                                    Mississippi Valley
                                 Historical Review (Cedar Rapids, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1914-), XXXVII (1950-1951), 492-93, 495.
               
                     cent; horses and mules, five per cent; and sheep, one-half per
                        cent.29
            
            Corn was more than a living. It was for thousands a legacy. A young Virginian, Robert Cutler,
                    wondered who could not be "up & doing" in the midst of Indiana's
                    rich fields and quick-moving industry; no loungers, no idlers; "grass & corn, their
                    principal productions & the thousand teams bearing them to the banks of the river."
                    Cutler's stimulation may later have matched the deeds of young Enoch Honeywell, whose
                    negotiations more than a century and a quarter ago for the growing, feeding, droving, packing, and
                    transit of corn and swine, not to include his personal traverses between East, West, and South, were
                    of a casualness fitting the present century.30
            
            Men who had not dreamed the dream of wealth evidently did not recognize opportunity. Perhaps many of
                    them were inveterate pone eaters, like the southern-born soldiers at Norfolk who during the second
                    war with Britain insisted on calling wheaten bread wheat pone; who could
                    substitute corn bread for poundcake at a wedding. At any rate there is a passive tone to the news
                    from 
                        Illinois
                     that "John Boss and Henry Boss has got more corn in their cribs than they ever
                    had in Northcarolina." Signs of collective passiveness came from southern Indiana where the
                    farmers of 
                        Crawford County
                    , to ascertain whether to expect a crop of mast sufficient to fatten their shoats, would
                    in early spring climb the beech and oak trees to observe the amount of bloom If the bloom forecast a
                    large crop of beechnuts and acorns, they would plant only a little corn. But in the case of a
                    Virginian removed to central Indiana, "a plentiful country," passivity had clearly
                    become demoralized satiety. "Father says he has Corn Enough to last him two
                    seasons," a son remarked, "he Labours not at all."31
            
            
               
                  29 Wallace and Bressman, Corn and Corn Growing, 12, 16,
                        18, 300.
               
                  30 Robert E. Cutler, 
                     Wilmington, Dearborn County
                  ,
                        Indiana, to his father Robert C. Cutler, Lovingston, Nelson County, 
                            Virginia
                        , November 7, 1834, Tucker-Coleman Pars, Colonial 
                            Williamsburg
                        ; Diary of Enoch Honeywell, Indiana State Library.
               
                  31 T. B. Helm, History of 
                                Allen County
                            , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1880), 164; William and Christina Boss, 
                            Versailles
                            Brown
                         County, 
                            Illinois
                        , to relatives in 
                            North Carolina
                        , May 2, 1858, Elisha Lawler, Union Township, 
                            Madison
                         County, Indiana, to Joseph L. Lawler, Warrenton, 
                            Virginia
                        , March 3 1837, F. L. Alexander Collection, Duke University Library; Hazen k.
                        Pleasant, "
                            Crawford County
                        , Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII (1922), 249.
            
         
         
         
            A Society Develops in New 
                        Albany
                    
            
            Victor M. Bogle*
            
            Life in New 
                        Albany
                     during the years it was in a transitional stage from frontier outpost to established
                    town was not always a carefree, happy-go-lucky affair. It was marked with the usual privations and
                    disappointments which accompany people when they leave behind the familiar to cope with the
                    unfamiliar. Optimism and ambition drove many of the settlers to the newly founded river community,
                    but it was soon clear that there could not be enough success to go around.
            The most depressing picture of the first years comes from Isaac Reed, a Presbyterian preacher, whose
                    personal task it was to renew the spiritual life of the discouraged settlers. Of the year 1818 he
                    wrote: "As a place, its morals were low; its general society was rude, and much of it
                    profane. There were some pious persons, but their number was small…. Numbers came there
                    with some relics of better condition, to retrive their fortunes. The place had a sickly
                        character."1
            
            After several months of service among the people of New 
                        Albany
                     he concluded: "The times seemed changing for the worse. Many of the society
                    [Presbyterian] were considerably embarrassed with debts. My heart was with the people. I had
                    thought, this is my home, and here will I build my house. I delayed with them till December; but
                    found it necessary at that time to remove."2
            
            The first New Albanyians were too preoccupied with the job of supplying their basic physical needs to
                    be concerned much with their spiritual ones. A preacher asking a salary of five hundred dollars a
                    year was a luxury they could not yet afford.3
            
            If at first the odds appeared to be against the New 
                        Albany
                     settlers, just as in other new places, it was not long before their efforts and simple
                    animal endurance had more 
                  
                     * Victor M. Bogle is a resident of Silver Spring, 
                                Maryland
                            . This article is a revised chapter of his Ph.D. dissertation at 
                                Boston
                             University, 1961, written under the direction of Warren S. Tryon.
                  
                     1 Isaac Reed, The Christian Traveler (
                                New York
                            , 1828), 86-87.
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., 88.
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., 86.
               
                     nearly equalized the contest. As soon as the demand and
                    resources were sufficient to bring them about, the old institutions began to appear in the new
                    environment. Town and county government, better dwellings, schools, courts, newspapers, taverns,
                    recreational organizations, and the other accoutrements that mark a settled community came more into
                    prominence as the first economic foothold was secured. Log cabins made of unseasoned timber sufficed
                    at first; but soon milled lumber and brick were in demand. Governmental officials, as well as church
                    groups, met wherever they could at first, but eventually they had special buildings
                        designed for their use. Grogshops and taverns became orderly inns and hotels, while the
                    barred shack used as a jail evolved into a secure structure of brick. Privations became less common,
                    and the social life more complex, as each citizen gradually adapted himself to his new role in the
                    expanding economic and social pattern of the growing community.
            The early settlement attempted to care for its poor through the auspices of the county government.
                    "Overseers of the poor" were appointed by the commissioners to administer aid to
                    these most pressed by poverty. The overseer took the supplicant into his own home, or in some way
                    was personally responsible for his care. The large number of appointments as overseers is evidence
                    that there were many needy cases. They show too that the general attitude toward those in extreme
                    poverty was reasonably benevolent. "Strangers in our midst" were not eliminated
                    from the benefits of public charity simply because they were outsiders. The indigent ill received
                    medical attention, and should they die, their burial was also arranged.4
            
            How to handle effectively the problem of the poor was a question that remained largely unanswered
                    throughout the century. The town's location made it particularly susceptible to poor
                    wanderers coming and going in all directions. Hospitality sometimes wore thin, but it never vanished
                    altogether.
            The healthful site of New 
                        Albany
                     was one of the features which the Scribners stressed in their early advertisement of
                        
                  
                     4 Minutes of the Commissioners of 
                                Floyd County
                            , Indiana, February 12, 1821. "Ordered that the County Treasurer pay to
                            Elias Ayres One Dollar & Eighty seven & one half cents for a shroud
                            furnished for John Kelley a pauper…. Samuel C. Miller five Dollars for making
                            Coffin for said John Kelley." Ibid., February 10, 1824.
               
                     the town. They accredited this condition to the lack of
                    stagnant waters, to the fortunate location of the town—sufficiently below the Falls to
                    avoid the fogs and "noxious exhalements," and to the "purifying"
                    winds that blew up the river in the warm season. As a matter of record, there were plenty of swamps
                    and frog ponds in the Whitehill tract, just east of the original settlement, and New 
                        Albany
                     was in no sense immune to malarial mosquitoes or other pests that thrive in such
                    places. But relatively speaking New 
                        Albany
                     was a healthy place for the times. The 
                        Louisville
                     booster, Henry M'Murtrie, while lamenting the fact that 
                        Louisville
                     was not a healthy town gave due credit to New 
                        Albany
                     in this respect. He thought this was due, not to the conditions outlined by the
                    Scribners, but to the many natural springs from which the residents obtained their water.5
            
            Since there is little data on the diseases that afflicted the people in this region, the causes of
                    these diseases cannot be ascertained. But it is probable that maladies resulting from the bites of
                    insects, or the lack of proper sanitary precautions, were as common in New 
                        Albany
                     as elsewhere, while those resulting from drinking impure water were somewhat rarer.
                    That the town was by no means free of the epidemic type diseases can be verified in the writings of
                    a few people who were there when some of them prevailed.
            Asahel Clapp wrote in 1822 of the current surge of malignant fever: 
                  
                     
                        "It commenced some time last June in consequence of warm weather, but
                                    subsided in July in consequence of warm weather being dry. But in August increased
                                    with great fatality and continued late in October. The disease constantly appeared
                                    of a remitting or intermittant fever, the most malignant cases were
                                    intermittant…. Fruit in many cases was an exciting cause of the disease,
                                    especially peaches, but muskmelons and watermelons evidently produced the disease in
                                    some cases. The first symptom of the disease was…. a slimy white moist
                                    tongue, little or not at all coated, a mawkish taste in the mouth and increased flow
                                    of saliva. Considerable pain in the head, some affection of the loins, increased
                                    intestinal secretion."
                     
                  
                Clapp's remedy was: 
                  
                     
                        "Bleeding… in the most violent cases when there was severe pain
                                    in 
                              
                                 5 Henry M'Murtrie, Sketches af 
                                                    Louisville
                                                 and Its Environs (
                                                Louisville
                                            , 1819), 149, 166.
                           
                                     the head…. Emetics were likewise
                                    very beneficial. Small doses of Tact. Ant. and Sal. Epsom and Saline purges combined
                                    with magnesia were of very essential service."
                     
                  
               
               6
            
            Though the physicians of the period were often in a position of the blind leading the blind, they at
                    least tried to cope with the complex cases with which they were daily confronted. Doctor
                    Clapp's diary is quite detailed during his first years of practice in New 
                        Albany
                    —he came in 1817—and it shows that the doctor must have been one
                    of the busiest men around the town. He applied much time and care to the working out of his
                    diagnoses, and his suggested remedies were as good as the times afforded. He performed
                    "bleedings" to alleviate a number of varied ailments, but in this respect he but
                    followed one of the standard practices of the day.
            In 1820 there were at least three physicians in New 
                        Albany
                    , and, in accordance with the custom, they combined their practice with other pursuits.
                    Doctor Clapp was a druggist and geologist; Doctor David M. Hale, a tavern keeper; and Doctor Joseph
                    Whitcomb the agent for the New 
                        Albany
                     Cotton Manufactory.7 Even at this early date, however, the medical
                    profession in this area was organized and regulated by its organization. There were the State
                    Medical Society, of which Clapp was the first president, and the district societies whose duty it
                    was to review candidates for the profession and issue permits to practice. Candidates acquired their
                    training through apprenticeship to a reputable physician. William Scribner, who later became one of
                    the town's most popular practitioners, studied under Clapp from March, 1818, to August,
                        1822.8
            
            The persistent efforts of the officials to maintain a secure jail house suggested that in the early
                    days there was a need of some facility for isolating members of the community who stepped over the
                    line of the law. Seth Woodruff, who was able to cash in on about everything that happened in town,
                    received fifty dollars for building the first county jail. This was a log structure, seven feet
                    high, made of thick 
                  
                     6 Asahel Clapp Diary, 6.
                  
                     7 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Chronicle, September 15, 1821.
                  
                     8 Oddly enough, this son of Joel Scribner went forty miles away to the
                            town of Paoli to establish his first practice. In later years, however, he returned to the
                            town of his father. William A. Scribner, Early Days in New 
                                Albany
                            , 22.
               
                     hewed logs that were "pinned down." This
                    structure burned down within the year, and Sheriff James Besse replaced it himself, this time at a
                    cost of sixty dollars. This building was ill-fated too, for less than three years later it was
                    necessary for the officials to procure the residents of the late Joseph Brindley on upper High
                    Street for a jail. A few years later still another jail was constructed, and this one apparently
                    managed to escape the mishaps of its predecessor till it was replaced about the middle of the
                        century.9
            
            Petty crime, and what the Reverend Isaac Reed would term "immorality," were common
                    enough in the early days, but the publicity attached to the few recorded major crimes shows that
                    they were infrequent enough to be regarded as sensations. One of these, the John Dahmen murder case
                    of 1821 sheds as much light on the public thought of the town as any single event of the early days
                    that has been recorded. The details of how the Danish immigrant, Dahmen, murdered his friend and
                    benefactor, Frederick Nolte, at the latter's bakery shop, dumped his body in the river,
                    mopped up the blood and then opened up the shop the next morning as his own business are grotesque
                    enough to satisfy the cravings of the sensation seekers in any era. But the significance of the
                    affair is how the episode affected the citizenry of the town. It was probably the first break in the
                    monotonous routine that characterized the early years.
            When the rumored details of the crime were confirmed, normal activities in the town halted, and
                    something approaching a carnival atmosphere prevailed from time to time through the period of the
                    dramatic trial and final execution. Dahmen's escape to 
                        Canada
                    , his recapture and return by the New 
                        Albany
                     sheriff did nothing to dampen the interest. People from the neighboring countryside
                    flocked into town to see whatever there was to see. The accused obligingly made pre-execution
                    confessions, even more sensational than his local exploits. These were written up for the purposes
                    of public edification, not by one writer, but at least two. The public had its choice of Reuben
                    Kidder's, The Life and Adventures of John Dahmen, or R. S.
                    Strickland's The Real Life of John 
                     
                        9 Minutes of the Commissioners of 
                                    Floyd County
                                , May 3, 1819, November 14, 1820, May 13, 1823; Henry A. and Kate Ford, History of the 
                                        Ohio
                                     Falls Cities and Their Counties (2 vols., 
                                    Cleveland
                                , 1882), II, 90-91.
                  
                         Dahman. The proceeds of this latter volume went to the
                    murderer's "unfortunate family."10
            
            Kidder's account was a spring board to talk about a variety of things some of them pretty
                    far removed from his original subject. It was: "A most wonderful and interesting
                    account… of a man distinguished for his natural powers of mind, & the basest
                    & most unprincipaled ingenuity—replete with anecdote of every description, comic
                    & tragic—the most daring crimes, the most dreadful & appalling scenes of
                    terror & bloodshed, conflagrations of towns, including the great city of
                    Moscow—the great battles of Smolensko, of Boridino, of Leipsic & of
                    Waterloo—numerous…[?] of Bonaparte, wonderfully
                    amusing—his order of march, manner of visiting his private soldiers in their tents,
                    exciting their courage & securing attachment to his person—various descriptions
                    of singular characters male & female—a vast variety of extraordinary
                    adventures—numerous scenes, perilous, distressing, tender, pathetic, tragical, comical,
                    some supposed supernatural, that showed Dahmen in Europe his future sufferings in
                        America."11
            
            Accommodating but shrewd to the last, Dahmen made arrangements for the disposal of his body. At first
                    he contracted to sell it to one of the physicians for medical dissection, but later realizing its
                    potential worth tried to annul the contract and have it auctioned off to the highest bidder. In this
                    venture he failed, and following the execution the body went to the original contracting
                        physician.12
            
            The climax of the drama came when Dahmen calmly stepped forth on the specially built scaffold and
                    went through 
                  
                     10 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Chronicle, May 26, 1821, September 5, 1821; Kenneth R. Shaffer,
                            "Murder at New 
                                Albany
                            ; A Rare 1821 Imprint," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), XLI (1945), 45-49. The details of the case are summed up nicely in a
                            column-long account by the local editor in the May 26 issue. No other event received so much
                            editorial attention in any of the old papers that are extant. This particular issue was
                            delayed a day to get all the facts together, and for the period the story was a real
                            journalistic gem. The spelling of the names of individuals involved in the story varies in
                            the different accounts.
                  
                     11 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Chronicle, July 28, 1821.
                  
                     12 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger-Standard, February 25, 1879. This part of the story may be
                            apocryphal since it was reported more than fifty years after the event. The Minutes of the
                            Commissioners of 
                                Floyd County
                            , March 14 and August 13, 1821, record that the County Treasurer paid Kendall
                            and Cox four dollars for making Dahmen a coffin. It also cost the county three dollars for
                            the work done on the prisoner's irons.
               
                     the colorful rites administered by the hangman. Gradually the
                    crowd melted away, and the town went back to its normal routine. But the topic of Dahmen and his
                    exploits were material for thought and conversation among the "oldtimers" for
                    years to come.
            New 
                        Albany
                    's taverns have been one of the features of the early town which have been
                    particularly fascinating to the local antiquarians. Nowhere was the atmosphere that prevailed in the
                    town during the era of its close attachment to the river better reflected than in the many
                    hostelries where rivermen and traders gathered to negotiate their business or drown their sorrows in 
                        Kentucky
                     whisky.
            The large number of taverns supports the conclusion that the town played host to its share of the
                    thousands who passed up and down the 
                        Ohio
                     at a time when the river was the great highway to the West. So conspicuous were the
                    taverns in the early landscape that an 1819 traveler, Richard Lee 
                        Mason
                    , was prompted to record after passing through New 
                        Albany
                     that it was "a little village inhabited by tavern-keepers and
                        mechanics."13
            
            The first tavern known to be located in what later became the town of New 
                        Albany
                     was a simple establishment kept by a Mrs. Robinson. It served as a stopping place for
                    mail and travelers on the road between 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    . The tavern trade expanded considerably in the years immediately following the founding
                    of the town, for in 1819 there were nine separate proprietors applying for licenses from the county
                        commissioners.14
            
            The early taverns abided by state as well as local regulations. The county required a twenty-dollar
                    license fee and a five hundred-dollar bond. The county officials also set the price rates. For
                    breakfast the taverns could charge 31% cents, for dinner 37 1/2 cents, and for supper 25 cents.
                    These rates, out of keeping with the normal pattern of living costs, indicate that either food was
                    relatively scarce, or that the local citizens were eager to take the outsiders for all they 
                  
                     13 Harlow Lindley, Indiana as Seen by Early
                            Travelerrs (
                                Indianapolis
                            . 1916). 235.
                  
                     14 Ford, History of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Falls Cities and Their Counties, II, 150; Minutes of the Commissioners
                            of 
                                Floyd County
                             for 1819 and 1820. There was apparently much fluctuation in the early tavern
                            business. Except for one person, recipients of the licenses to keep taverns in 1819 were
                            entirely different from the recipients in 1820.
               
                     could get. But the traveler made up for these prices by paying
                    only 12 1/2 cents for his night's lodging and 12 1/2 cents for his half pint of whisky. He
                    could stable his horses and furnish it with a night's supply of hay for 37 1/2 cents.15
            
            That the taverns were not required to be very elaborate is obvious from the Indiana state regulation
                    that each applicant for a license must have "at least two good beds and furniture. in
                    addition to the quantity necessary for the use of the family… also a good stable well
                    furnished with suitable stalls for at least four horses." The selling of liquor was an
                    important feature of the taverns and no doubt some of the proprietors were in the business more for
                    this purpose than any other. This state regulation helped to make the "tavern"
                    business very prosperous: "The said circuit courts shall not grant any licence or permit to
                    any person to vend spiritous or strong liquors in any county within this state unless such person
                    applying therefor shall produce the certificate of twelve respectable freeholders, that the person
                    so applying is of good moral character, and that it would be for the benefit and convenience of
                    travellers for such person to be licenced."16
            
            Some of the early inns grew larger, more respectable and dignified, while others, especially those
                    along the river front, became little more than places of rendezvous for the rough element of the
                    town and the transient river laborers. Hale's Tavern, later known as the High Street House,
                    was the center of many of the town's recreational activities, as well as the haven sought
                    by the more distinguished travelers.17 A sojourn at Hale's in 1821
                    inspired this bit of criticism on American frontier customs by the Englishman Adlard Welby:
                    "We found a very comfortable reception at the excellent family tavern kept by Dr. Hale, a
                    physician. We had hitherto been frequently received by Representatives, Colonels, Majors, Squires,
                    and Captains; these now sometimes give place to the medical profession. An American may be proud of
                    his liberty, but the pride of a gentleman never stands in the way of n profitable speculation;
                    idleness only is here a disgrace, and if a man of liberal education finds that his profession will
                        
                  
                     15 Minutes of the Commissioners of 
                                Floyd County
                            , February 10, 1819.
                  
                     16
                            Laws of Indiana, 1820-1821, pp. 92-93.
                  
                     17 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Chronicle, June 20, 1821. Plans for a Fourth of July celebration to be
                            held at Hale's were reported in this issue.
               
                     not sufficiently remunerate him it is thought right that he
                    should seek profit in trade."18
            
            Dr. Hale was a model landlord, and as the town grew his tavern became one of the best in Indiana,
                    Hale was a 
                        Massachusetts
                     man who had come to New 
                        Albany
                     following his service in the War of 1812. "He was an elegant gentleman, of the
                    old school; wearing ruffles in his shirt front, and bearing himself with the dignified and courteous
                    deportment of the ruffle and shirt-front period." His tavern had only a narrow frontage on
                    High Street, but it ran back in the form of two "L's" toward the river.
                    In the inclosure was a stable for the travelers’ horses and a yard for livestock. He also
                    maintained a garden and a small farm from which he procured his necessary fruits and vegtables.19
            
            Fifty years after its founding, boosters of New 
                        Albany
                     pointed with pride to the town's many attractive church edifices and the high
                    moral quality of the town which they symbolized. But organized religion was slow in making headway
                    in the early settlement.20 Unlike the many ‘towns on the eastern
                    seaboard, this new community did not form around a church building, or borrow its government from a
                    familiar church organization. The Scribners themselves were "pious Presbyterians,"
                    accustomed to the discipline and regularity in church attendance characterized by this denomination,
                    but the frontier conditions necessitated a temporary modification of old habits and customs.
            A large majority of the Protestant settlers were either Presbyterians or Methodists, and the
                    establishment of church bodies adhering to the principles of these two faiths laid the foundations
                    for their supremacy in New 
                        Albany
                     for the remainder of the century. There is no record of controversy between the two
                    groups even in the early days. The Scribners reserved land for a prospective Methodist church, just
                    as they reserved land for a church of their own denomination.21
            
            
               
                  18 Adlard Welby, A Visit to North America… (
                            London
                        , 1821), 80.
               
                  19 Emma Carlton, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana Journal, November 2, 1901.
               
                  20 Ford, History of the 
                                Ohio
                             Falls Cities and Their Counties, II, 186-211. Evidently the people of 
                            Louisville
                         were not much concerned with the establishment ot churches at this time either.
                        According to one writer the people there built a theater several years before they got around to
                        preparing a church edifice. Benjamin Casseday, The History of 
                                Louisville
                             from its Early Years till the Year 1852 (
                            Louisville
                        , 1852), 126.
               
                  21 Mary S. D. Collins, "New 
                            Albany
                        , With a Short Sketch of the Scribner Family," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, XVII (1921), 223.
            
            
            The Methodist church was the first officially organized in New 
                        Albany
                    . Its origin is based in a pleasant little anecdote which, true or not, probably
                    typifies life in frontier New 
                        Albany
                    . According to the legend, Elam Genung, a lonely settler from back East,
                        walked in the woods one night. His nocturnal meditations were interrupted by the
                    "sweet voice" of a lady singing a familiar hymn. He discovered that the singing
                    came from the humble cabin of Hannah Ruff, a widow woman who earned her livelihood by dispensing
                    spruce beer and ginger cakes to neighbors in the settlement. Elam spontaneously joined in the
                    singing of the hymn, and upon its close he asked the lady if she were a church member. When she
                    informed him she had been a Methodist back in the East, Elam replied, "I, too, was a
                    Methodist before I came here. Let us pray." A dozen or so other settlers had been attracted
                    to the cabin by the singing, which "touched every heart with its sweet tenderness, waking
                    memories of homes far away in the East," and they joined in holding the town's
                    first prayer meeting.22
            
            The prayer meetings were a weekly habit by the time the Reverend John Shrader formally organized a
                    Methodist church in the town in 1817. The early congregation met at the cabin-tavern of Hannah Ruff
                    until they completed the first church building in the town, described by Isaac Reed as "a
                    little frame covered in."23
            
            The Presbyterians were not far behind the Methodists once the church organizing business got under
                    way. But as seen from the related experiences of the Reverend Issac Reed, the new society was feeble
                    during its first few years. In 1816 the Scribners had shared in the organization by the Reverend
                    James McGready of a church at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . There were but ten persons in the congregation, four of them members of the Scribner
                    family. This "union" church was dissolved after all the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     members gradually dropped out, and in December, 1817, it was reformed to be the First
                    Presbyterian Church of New 
                        Albany
                    . The first meetings were held in the parlor and back room of Grandma Phoebe Scribner.
                    The following year the society engaged the 
                  
                     22 C. W. Cottom, New 
                                    Albany
                                , Indiana,… (New 
                                Albany
                            , 1873), 55-56.
                  
                     23 Reed, The Christian Traveler, 86.
               
                     pastoral services of Isaac Reed, and during his stay the first
                    Presbyterian church building was constructed. It was a structure 40 by 30 feet, with rough floor,
                    seats, and pulpit.24
            
            Of this early New 
                        Albany
                     charge Reed wrote: "In this review after eight years of absence, I am rather
                    surprised that I succeeded so well, and did so much, than that I did not succeed better and do more.
                    It was a strained effort on the part of the society, which was made to obtain me. One man subscribed
                    $75, another $60, another $30. The church had been but lately
                    formed, and had three elders, neither of them experienced respecting their office…. With
                    this people… I commenced single handed. There was not an installed minister of the
                    Presbyterian church in the state; and, by God's blessing, I kept the ground, defended and
                    fortified the post, and won some from without, to come into the garrison. This year was one of the
                    most unremitted, intense and painful watchfulness of any year of my life."25
            
            Reed opened a one-man campaign against sin in the town. He succeeded in getting the grogshops to
                    remain closed on the Sabbath and in converting several young people who "became deeply and
                    anxiously impressed with a concern for their salvation."26 Whether he
                    proved to be a bit too zealous for the town, or whether it was simply the salary that was the issue,
                    he remained in New 
                        Albany
                     for just one year.
            The Presbyterians established a Sunday School in connection with their church, from which
                    "instruction" was dispensed to about sixty "scholars." In 1826,
                    New 
                        Albany
                     shared in the organization of the Indiana Sunday School Union, whose purpose was to
                    promote Bible study among children. This was a branch of the American Sabbath School Union which
                    supplied religious tracts to be distributed from the key towns of New 
                  Albany, Madison
               ,
                    and 
                        Indianapolis
                    .27
            
            The Baptists were not far behind the Methodists and Presbyterians in getting their congregation
                    organized. Seth Woodruff did most of the preaching, and his early monopoly on the pulpit was one of
                    the reasons the Baptist organization 
                  
                     24 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger-Standard, November 7, 1877; Scribner, Early Days in New 
                                Albany
                            , 26; Collins, "New 
                                Albany
                            , With a Short Sketch of the Scribner Family," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XVII, 224.
                  
                     25 Reed, The Christian Traveler, 87.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., 88.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 89.
               
                     did not prosper as the others.28 Throughout
                    the century the Baptist church was marked with more dissension than the others, and it was not
                    firmly entrenched in New 
                        Albany
                     until far along in the century.
            The Catholics did not have a church in New 
                        Albany
                     until 1837, by which time the large addition of Irish and Germans
                    prompted the formation of one. As early as 1820, however, Bishop Joseph Flaget consecrated a small
                    Catholic church in the "Knobs," outside of the town in 
                        Lafayette
                     Township, called the church of the Assumption of the Blessed Mary. It was but a log
                    structure, but it served the few Catholics of New 
                        Albany
                     and the surrounding countryside for several years.29
            
            The only known record of 
                        Quaker
                     activities in the area during the early years is this note of July 7, 1819, from the
                    British traveler William Cobbett: "Resting at New 
                        Albany
                    . We were amused by hearing a 
                        Quaker
                    -lady preach to the natives. Her first words were ‘all the
                        nations of the earth arc of one blood….’ She proceeded to vent her
                    rage with great vehemence against hireling priests and the trade of preaching in general, and closed
                    with dealing out large portions of brimstone to the drunkard and still larger and hotter to those
                    who gave the bottle to drink."30
            
            There was at least one unorthodox brand of religion on the New 
                        Albany
                     frontier; it was that of Epapharas Jones, the Scribner rival who owned that part of
                    later New 
                        Albany
                     known at the time as 
                        Providence
                    —thus named because the owner was "providentially" placed
                    there. Jones, according to the tales related by some of the old settlers who remembered him,
                    considered the Indians to be the "lost tribes" of 
                        Israel
                    . He held them in the highest respect and regarded them in many ways far in advance of
                    the white man. Jones’ religion, as his town and other cherished enterprises, failed to
                    make much of an impression on his neighbors. But it no doubt added color to the neighborhood and
                    gave his economic rivals another excuse for attacking him.31
            
            
               
                  28 Ford, History of the 
                                Ohio
                             Falls Cities and Their Counties, II, 202.
               
                  29 New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Ledger, August 28, 1889.
               
                  30 William Cobbett, A Year's Residence in the 
                                United States
                             of America (
                            London
                        , 1819), 491-92.
               
                  31 Ford, History of the 
                                Ohio
                             Falls Cities and Their Counties, II, 155. The earliest written account of
                        Jones’ various eccentricities are in this volume. These writers do not state
                        specifically where they got their information. Duc allowance must be made for occasional
                        exaggeration.
            
            
            M'Murtrie noted that the citizens of "commercial cities of all newly settled
                    countries" were far too busy adding dollar to dollar" to bother much with literary
                    and cultural pursuits. Yet in 
                        Louisville
                    , he found a few sufficiently touched by wealth and urbanity to devote some time to
                    literature and the cultivation of the mind. He would have found proportionately fewer across the
                    river in New 
                        Albany
                    , but even here there were some so entrenched in the literary traditions they had
                    earlier known to read an occasional book for pleasure, or even collect a few for a personal library.
                    Doctor Clapp enjoyed Mackenzies’ Man of Feeling, "a very
                    pathetic and interesting book," and somebody evidently enjoyed Shakespeare, for William
                    Hurst was forced to advertise for his missing volume two. Others spent their leisure in improving
                    their minds in a more pragmatic way by reading The Justice's Clerk,
                        Farmer's Souvenir and Agricultural Prescriptor, or A General
                        Instructor of the Office, Duty, & Authority of Justices of the Peace, Sheriffs, Cornors,
                        Constables, and Jury Man.
               32
            
            As late as 1830 the federal census listed only ten public libraries, with volumes totaling
                    thirty-nine hundred, for the whole state of Indiana. None of these was in New 
                        Albany
                    . In 1823, during the county seat controversy, the state reserved ten per cent of all
                    land or other donations accruing from the campaign to establish the seat of 
                        Floyd County
                     for the purpose of establishing a county library.33 But there is no
                    record that this library ever became a reality. A township and eventually a city library did evolve,
                    but at a much later date.
            The opportunity of obtaining reading matter was not altogether absent. There were some private
                    concerns which attempted to circulate reading material to the general public. Here is the 1827
                    advertisement of the Auxiliary Tract Society: "The Auxiliary Tract Society of NA, which was
                    founded April last, have on hand, at the Depository, Tracts, to dispose of very low. Any person can
                    be a member of said Society, by paying twenty five cents annually, which entitles them to receive
                    225 pages of Tracts, well printed on good paper. 
                  
                     32 M'Murtrie, Sketches of 
                                    Louisville
                                
                     , 118-19; Clapp Diary, 9; New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Recorder, October 13, 1827; New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Chronicle, May 12 and 21, 1821. The first of these two books was printed
                            at 
                                Jeffersonville
                            .
                  
                     33
                            Fifth 
                                    United States
                                 Census, 1830; Laws of Indiana, 1822-1823, p. 104.
               
                     The Tracts are very interesting & instructive. The
                    Depository is kept at Pettet & Downey's Drug Store."34
            
            One of the first buildings constructed in the town was a schoolhouse. It was located on one of the
                    four squares donated by the Scribners for public purposes. Not only did the founders give the land,
                    but they set aside five thousand dollars from the sale of the first lots to serve as a perpetual
                    operating fund for the proposed school system. In addition to these local resources, the state
                    provided the customary section of the township lands for public schools, and from the sale of this
                    the New 
                        Albany
                     township received $1,280. As early as 1821 there was enough concern over
                    public education for mass meetings to be held to decide school issues.35
            
            But in spite of the plans and resources, the early school did not get off to a successful start. The
                    pressure of the normal labor shortage played some part in this, for even the smaller children were
                    not exempt from performing their "chores." Too, there was the natural difficulty
                    of promoting such an institution in a frontier environment where contacts with established places
                    and practices were daily diminishing.
            In 1822 a full-time teacher was hired by the town at a salary of two hundred dollars a year, but his
                    school was not strickly a "public" one; each scholar paid one dollar per quarter
                    to attend.36 It was not until well past this period that the facilities and
                    organization of the New 
                        Albany
                     public school system made a measureable improvement. In the meantime, there were
                    several private schools in operation, even in the 1820's. The private school continued to
                    be an important feature of the local educational picture until about the Civil War period.
            New 
                        Albany
                     existed its first six years without a newspaper. The establishment of the weekly Chronicle in 1820 was an event which gave the town a sense of dignity and
                    permanence that it could scarcely have had before.37 There 
                  
                     34 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Recorder, October 13, 1827.
                  
                     35 Scribner, Early Days in New 
                                Albany
                            , 18-19; M'Murtrie, Sketches of 
                                    Louisville
                                
                     , 168; Logan Esarey, History of Indian& (2d
                            ed.; 2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1918), I, 328; New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Chronicle, February 3, 1821.
                  
                     36 This data was obtained from the Emma Carlton Scrapbook on New 
                                Albany
                             History in the 
                                Floyd County
                             Historical Society Collection.
                  
                     37 Casseday, in discussing the early 
                                Louisville
                             newspapers, observed that "in America, the presence of the newspaper
                            is ever the mark of peace, and quiet, and comfort." History of 
                                    Louisville
                                
                     , 115-16.
               
                     were already papers at 
                        Louisville
                    , Corydon, 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , and 
                        Charlestown
                     which were available to New 
                        Albany
                     settlers, but the Chronicle served primarily as a local organ that
                    gave the home advertisers a chance to reach their patrons and the townspeople a chance to share the
                    town gossip. The Chronicle was not brimming with original articles, but from it
                    the inquisitive reader could cull out many timely details. If he did not know it before, he could
                    learn that Archibald Boman accused John Kernes of stealing his saddlebags; that Abner Scribner was
                    suing Wendelin Wiestenfeld; that Sheriff James Besse was auctioning off the property of Mordecai
                    Childs at the courthouse door; or that Pettet and Downey had received new stock on the steamboat "
                        Franklin
                    ." And there was always plenty of copied material from the larger western
                    papers, or from such eastern publications as Niles’ Register, for those
                    whose interests ranged beyond the confines of the town and the river.
            The editors of the Chronicle, Matthew Patrick and Mason C. Fitch, boasted four
                    hundred and fifty subscribers and the best advertising custom in the state. The price of the Chronicle was $2.50 a year, paid in advance. An extra twenty-five cents
                    was charged for each month's delay in payment. Advertisements cost one dollar per square of
                    fourteen lines for a three-weeks run, and twenty-five and one-half cents for each subsequent
                    insertion. Most of the advertisers paid for the "subsequent" insertions, for the
                    advertisements changed little in the course of several weeks. The Chronicle also
                    did a "liberal share" of job work and sold receipt books, pencils, ink powder, and
                    blank paper "for cash or clean linen and cotton rags."38
            
            The Chronicle was established in November, 1820, and the notice of its being
                    offered for sale appeared in the last extant issue, July 28, 1821. Thus the newspaper business
                    followed the same unstable pattern as the other early enterprises. Had it not been for the
                    preservation of a few copies by interested antiquarians, the Chronicle, with all
                    of its importan sidelights on the New 
                        Albany
                     of 1820-1821, would have been completely forgotten.
            
               
                  38 New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Chronicle, May 5 and July 28, 1821. The price of rags was four cents per pound
                        in payment of debts, and three cents for cash.
            
            
            The second newspaper venture in New 
                        Albany
                     is really more a part of 
                        Louisville
                    's newspaper history. This was the Microscope and General
                        Advertiser, an eight-page pamphlet size paper published by "T. H. Roberts,
                    M.D." Roberts was a 
                        Louisville
                     resident who became so embroiled in political affairs that he had to escape across the
                    river to Indiana to preserve his paper as well as his own skin. For his day, Roberts was a practiced
                    writer of newspaper satire, and though he clothed his writing in ironical garb, his victims did not
                    fail to see at whom his jests were pointed. This excerpt illustrates the vigor with which he wrote:
                    "Dear Tim—The Legislature of 
                        Kentucky
                     have resolved to give the Governor unlimited scope in the treasury for the purpose of
                    inviting General La 
                        Fayette
                     to pay us a visit. Pray Gentlemen, what will he see, should he visit
                    us?—An Empty Treasury—An insolvent Community—A
                    penetentary [sic] full of starving convicts, and a contentious & factious
                    Legislature, who spent their time & the people's money, in bombastic
                    nonsense—sacrificing public good at the shrine of private sentiment! The
                    ‘Nation's Guest’ would weep to see, Such mockery
                    and such vanity. Simon Twist."39
            
            "Tim" was the pseudonym of Roberts, and in the style of Addison and Steele, he had
                    such "correspondents" as "Plain Dealings,"
                    "Jehu's doux yeus," "Casetera Desunt," and
                    "Titus Tadpole." Unlike the Chronicle, the contents of the Microscope were not mostly copied from other papers. There was relatively little
                    advertising, suggesting that its revenue came from other sources.
            Something more nearly approaching the standard newspaper of the day was the next
                        journal; it was called the Indiana Recorder and Public Advertiser. Its first issue came out
                    about November, 1825, shortly after the demise of the Microscope. It was published
                    by, Roberts and Campbell, the former probably T. H. Roberts, of the Microscope,
                    and leaned toward the Whig party in its political sentiments. It is notable for the number of 
                        Louisville
                     concerns that used its pages for advertising. This reveals that the revenue from local
                    advertisements alone was not sufficient to maintain profitably a paper in New 
                        Albany
                    ; also that 
                        Louisville
                     traders 
                  
                     39 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Microscope, December 25, 1824.
               
                     were out to gather in as much of the Indiana trade as they
                    could.
            After two years the Recorder and Advertiser was enlarged into a semiweekly and
                    became the Indiana Commercial Recorder. Its columns were to be devoted to
                    politics, agriculture, internal improvements, and general literature.40 Since no
                    copies of this semiweekly are known to exist, there is no record of how well it lived up to its
                    prospectus.
            The last newspaper to be established before the end of the decade was the Cresset.
                    This small four-page sheet first came out on March 8, 1828, and it also had Whig leanings. The
                    prevalence of Whig papers at this time indicates how the town stood in politics. If this paper
                    received financial support from the party, it was not enough to maintain itself. One extant issue of
                    the Cresset is the only known record that this little paper ever existed.
            There might have been other papers whose careers were encompassed in the 1820 to 1830 period, but no
                    trace of them now remains. A survival of a stray issue here, or a stray issue there, may throw
                    valuable light on these crucial years when the pioneer settlement was consolidating its position and
                    bidding to become Indiana's most important point on the 
                        Ohio River
                    .
            By the year 1830 the tiny river bank settlement, established just seventeen years earlier, had become
                    not only Indiana's most important point on the 
                        Ohio River
                     but its most populous town as well. For thirty years the prestige that comes with being
                    the state's "biggest" and "most important" town was to
                    be New 
                        Albany
                    's.
            But 
                        Louisville
                     was right across the river, and 
                        Louisville
                     already had the "jump" on its neighbor. It reaped not only the
                    benefits that came to it from its being an older town; but it had gotten the canal on its side of
                    the river, and it was working to make its western suburbs part of one unified urban pattern so that
                    as a commercial and shipping center it could no longer be threatened. As New 
                        Albany
                    's population increased by hundreds, 
                        Louisville
                    's grew by five hundreds. The four or five to one ratio of 1820 was to remain
                    until 
                        Louisville
                     pulled away to become undisputably a great city, 
                  
                     40 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Recorder., November 13, 1827.
               
                     while New 
                        Albany
                     in comparison was still just a middle-sized town.41 Yet, the view
                    of the Scribners, that New 
                        Albany
                     was the "only eligible situation" for a great river depot, was the
                    theme most manifest in the history of the town for another half century. The imponderables still
                    ruled, and New 
                        Albany
                    's citizens ever awaited that one big chance to prove how great their town
                    really was.
            In the meantime, life went along about the same as in hundreds of other western towns. The equipage
                    of older ideas, traditions, and customs was squared to fit the new environment, and a
                    characteristic—yet unique—place called New 
                        Albany
                     earned its right to a coveted dot on the map of Indiana and the midwest.
            
               
                  41
                        
                     
                        
                        1810
                        1820
                        1830
                        1840
                        1850
                     
                     
                        
                                    
                                        Louisville
                                    
                                
                        1,000
                        4,012
                        10,352
                        21,210
                        43,194
                     
                     
                        New 
                                        Albany
                                    
                        
                        —
                        1,000
                        2,080
                        4,226
                        8,181
                     
                   These figures were taken from the 
                            United States
                         Census Reports. New 
                            Albany
                        's 1820 population is an estimate of M'Murtrie, Sketches of 
                                Louisville
                            
                  , 167.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            Manuscripts in the Indiana University Library
            Doris M. Reed*
            
            The word "manuscript" may bring to mind a beautifully illuminated medieval text or
                    perhaps a much publicized "star" item such as the Declaration of Independence
                    recently moved from the Library of Congress to the National Archives or the Bliss copy of the 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address sold at auction in 
                        New York
                     for a fabulous price a few years ago. Such "star" items are a
                    treasured heritage of the nation, but they are only a part of that heritage. The history of a people
                    is not written in terms of its great moments alone. The Declaration of Independence and the 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address belong to our national story, but so also do the records of our executive,
                    legislative, and judicial bodies; the official and unofficial letters, papers, and utterances of
                    statesmen and office holders; business records of all kinds; papers of professional men; records of
                    churches and educational institutions; manuscripts of scientific and literary men; the diary of a
                    forty-niner or of an overland traveler on the 
                        Oregon
                     Trail; the letters of a member of the armed forces, be he general or private, in any
                    one of the nation's wars; the letters of a settler in a middle western state to friends and
                    relatives. The history of our nation in all its phases can be fully and accurately written only if
                    as many as possible of these records on all levels, national, state, and local, be preserved and
                    made available to those who write that history.
            To gather and preserve these manuscript materials has been recognized by many research libraries as
                    one of their responsibilities. Just what goes into their collections? Literally the word
                    "manuscript" means "written with or by hand," but the invention
                    of the typewriter has led to the broadening of the definition to "a written or typewritten
                    document of any kind as distinguished from a printed copy." Correspondence, minute books,
                    account books, diaries, are all included.
            The Indiana University Library is attempting to do its part in preserving the records of the past.
                    Its manuscript 
                  
                     * Doris M. Reed is curator of manuscripts in the Indiana
                            University Library, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
               
                     materials amount at present to some 650,000 pieces. Its
                    collections are concentrated in certain geographical and subject areas, the Middle West, the Far
                    West, Indiana, Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , General 
                        Lafayette
                    , the War of 1812, eighteenth century 
                        England
                    . Nationally and internationally known persons are represented in these collections.
                    There are letters or documents signed by all of the presidents of the 
                        United States
                    , except Buchanan and Garfield. Among these presidential papers a letter of Andrew
                    Jackson dealing with the preparations for the Battle of 
                        New Orleans
                     or one of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     written during his term in Congress have real content. Some of the others are chiefly
                    of autograph value. There are letters of Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    , an agreement of Robert 
                        Fulton
                     on the use of submarine boat torpedoes in the War of 1812, letters of John 
                        Brown
                    , John Wilkes Booth, William Tecumseh Sherman, James Whitcomb Riley. With these are
                    papers of many others whose names may not be so generally known but without whom the history of
                    their nation, state, or locality cannot be complete. It is only by the preservation of their papers
                    that each can be given his rightful place in that history.
            The Library's manuscript collections relating to Indiana are particularly impressive both in
                    size and in scope. Indeed it is no exaggeration to say that much of the history of Indiana could be
                    rewritten and vastly expanded by their intensive use. Certainly our knowledge of the history of the
                    northern part of the state would be greatly increased by the study of three of the collections that
                    pertain especially to that section.
            Geographically the whole of the state is represented. Almost every aspect of life from abolition to
                    zoometry is dealt with. Political affairs at local, state, and national levels as well as the making
                    of the constitutions of 1816 and 1850 are treated in the papers of governors, delegates,
                    legislators, and administrative officials. The legal aspects of Indiana's evolution, the
                    growth and development of its bench and bar, are revealed in the papers of law firms, individual
                    lawyers, and judges. Representing business and economic history are collections of records of
                    concerns engaged in textile manufacturing, canning, shipbuilding, banking, tailoring, railroading,
                    lumbering, mining, merchandising, and many other kinds of commerical endeavor.
            Religious denominations both past and present have  found in
                    Indiana an environment conducive to the spreading of their manifold gospels. The Indiana collections
                    contain excellent examples of the records of different religious sects, minute books and registers
                    of individual congregations, and diaries and notes of circuit riders and other ministers who have
                    labored diligently and unselfishly to spread the doctrines of the good life.
            Much material on educational and military history is to be found throughout the collections. Phases
                    of the development of secondary and higher education in the state appear in the letters and papers
                    of teachers, students, and members of boards of trustees of educational institutions. The part
                    played by sons of Indiana in the War of 1812, Mexican War, Civil War, Spanish-American War, and both
                    World Wars is illuminated and made vivid by their letters, diaries, and reports.
            Some of the Indiana manuscripts defy classification. They do not fit into any man-made category. They
                    do not relate to legal, economic, religious, military, or educational history. They are the letters
                    and records left by the "little people," those who were forced by circumstance to
                    expend their energies in making a meager living. They had little to do with constitutions, railroad
                    and land promotions, or literature and music. Yet their footprints in the shape of semi-literate
                    letters written to relatives or friends, revealing as they do the daily life of the average man and
                    woman, form a valuable part of the Indiana collections.
            The manuscripts in the Indiana University Library serve a two-fold purpose. From them the scholar
                    draws raw materials for his book, his monograph, or his article. They also serve as laboratory
                    materials for the graduate student working for an advanced degree. The skill with which the student
                    can assemble, master, and refine the raw materials of a bulky collection of manuscripts into a
                    finished product in the form of a thesis or dissertation is evidence of his fitness to enter into
                    the profession of teaching and scholarship.
            Manuscripts reach a library in every conceivable condition. Most of them are folded. Many are still
                    in their original envelopes. They come in every type of container. Sometimes they are in old
                    home-made wooden boxes of native popular, oak, or walnut that have lain in attics, barns, or
                    basements for years, even for half a century or more, covered with the  dirt and grime of years of neglect. Such manuscripts are immediately
                    unfolded, cleaned, and mended. They are then arranged in a logical order, boxed flat, catalogued,
                    stored in fireproof vaults, and made available to qualified scholars.
            Frequently people infer that there is nothing of possible historical value in their family papers,
                    that "they are just family papers dealing with family affairs." For this ream they
                    are reluctant to place them in a library. More than frequently such people are wrong. The content of
                    their papers may prove of inestimable value to the historian. Family matters of yesterday, even the
                    commonplace events, are prime sources for the social historian of today and tomorrow.
            Copies of a mimeographed descriptive list of its manuscript collections relating to Indiana business
                    history may be obtained from the Library. A more complete list of its holdings in all fields is as
                    follows:
            
               Alexander, William Albert. 1763 items, 1918-1945.
               Archer, Calvin Beza Kell. 49 items, 1838-1845.
               Augustan. 58 items, 1688-1719.
               Baker, Hord, and Hendricks. An estimated 40,000 items, c. 186%. 1916.
               
                  
                            Bartholomew
                        , Jacob. 581 items, 1838-1886.
               Bement, Lottie and Emily. 112 items, 1842-1891.
               Benefiel, William H. H. 193 items, 1889-1916. On deposit.
               Bethell, Thomas Floyd. 30 items, 1857-1859.
               Bicknell, George Augustus. 37 items, 1828-1881.
               Blatchley, Willis Stanley. 126 items, 1883-1940.
               Bozeman Trail. 64 items, 1867-1877.
               Brooks, Thomas Jefferson. 26 items, 1838-1845.
               
                  
                            Brown
                         County, Indiana, Johnson Township. 645 item, 1858-1889.
               
                  
                            Butler
                        , Amos William. 2395 items, 1835-1937.
               Byrd, Charles Willing. 235 items, 1794-1828.
               
                  
                            Clay
                        , Henry. 247 items, 1812-1849.
               Colfax, Schuyler. 32 items, 1855-1884.
               
                  
                            Columbia
                         Conserve Company. An estimated 50,000 items, 1917-1961. On deposit.
               Crawford, Medorem. 88 items, 1849-1864.
               Crone, Frank Linden. 170 items, 1897-1942.
               Cumback, William. 72 items, 1835-1904.
               Davis, Emily. 85 items, 1814-1902.
               Dickey, John Marcus. 1500 items, 1872-1941.
               Dreiser, Theodore. 6 items.
               Dunihue, Alexander H. 106 items, 1821-1891.
               Dunn, George Grundy. 1398 items, 1834-1850.
               Elliott, Richard Nash. 67 items, 1926-1948.
               Ellison, Robert Spurrier. 261 items, 1924-1944.
               Ellsworth, Stukely. 63 items, 1843-1874.
               
               Evans, Henry B. 120 items, 1833-1847.
               Farmer, Eli P. 11 items, 1818-1874.
               Ferguson, Charles E. 120 items, 1864-1929.
               Gaff, Thomas. 968 items, 1857-1872.
               Gillen, Courtland C. 200 items, 1930-1933. On deposit.
               Gosport, Indiana, Banks. 2749 items, 1867-1929.
               Great Britain. Admiralty. 58 items, 1811-1813.
               Hanna, John. 59 items, 1853-1879. On deposit.
               Hapgood, Powers. 4242 items, 1916-1949. On deposit.
               Harding, Stephen Selwyn. 86 items, 1855-1891.
               Harrison, Russell Benjamin. 21,516 items, 1875-1899.
               Helton, Andrew. 45 items, 1850-1872. On deposit.
               Holland, Philip C., George Frank, and Philip Todd. 612 items, 1863-1949.
               Hovey, Alvin Peterson. 707 items, 1841-1891. On deposit.
               Howard Ship Yards & Dock Company. An estimated 250,000 items, 1834-1942. On deposit.
               Hughes, 
                            Denver
                        , & Peck. 7680 items, 1860-1888.
               Humphreys, A. Y. 421 items, 1814-1825.
               
                  
                            Huntington
                        , Elisha Mills. 166 items, 1841-1862.
               Indiana Cotton Mills. 18,360 items, 1850-1947.
               Irwin-Miller-Sweeney Family. 530 items, 1870-1943. On deposit.
               Janney, John Jay. 56 items, 1847-1900.
               Judah, Samuel. 951 items, 1827-1869.
               Kimball, Nathan. 510 items, 1828-1898.
               King, Rufus. 94 items, 1815-1826.
               
                  
                            Kingsbury
                        , Jacob. 731 items, 1811-1815.
               Kirkman, Joseph J. 50 items, 1836-1875.
               Krout, Mary Hannah. 17 items.
               
                  
                            Lafayette
                        , General. 3145 items, 1732-1834.
               Lane, Henry Smith. 51 items, 1847-1868.
               Lane, Joseph. 3248 items, 1835-1881.
               Lieber, Richard. 297 items, 1909-1944.
               
                  
                            Lincoln
                        , Abraham, 170 items, 1826-1865.
               Louden, John Henry and Theodore James. 270 items, 1858-1935.
               McCulloch, Hugh. 15,750 items, 1833-1895.
               Maxwell, David Hervey. 340 items, 1825-1852.
               Menzies, Gustavus Vasa. 76 items, 1864-1917. On deposit.
               
                  
                            Newburgh
                        , Indiana, Banks. 162 items, 1902-1929.
               Niles, John Barron. 27,583 items, 1833-1879. On deposit.
               Oakleaf, Joseph Benjamin. 2437 items, 1862-1930.
               Oldroyd, Osborn Hamline. 54 items, 1864-1909.
               
                  
                            Oregon
                         Gulch Mining Company. 923 items, 1866-1887.
               Owen, Richard. 163 items, 1821-1911.
               Palmer, Joel. 1181 items, 1849-1881.
               Polke, William. 929 items, 1813-1843. On deposit.
               Rappites. 58 items, 1804-1889.
               Rauch, George 
                            Washington
                        . 703 items, 1911-1940.
               Scott, Emmet Hoyt. 61,876 items, 1851-1924. On deposit.
               Shaw, William. 450 items, 1833-1908.
               Smith, 
                            Hamilton
                        . 775 items, 1825-1875.
               
               Soupart, Sylvia. 87 items, 1915-1919.
               Stevens, William Arnold. 1401 items, 1850-1910.
               Sulzer, William. 111 items, 1917-1932.
               Test, Charles H. 198 items, 1824-1845.
               Thompson, Richard Wigginton. 382 items, 1837-1899.
               Todd, Robert. 33 items, 1780-1814.
               Trollope, Mrs. Frances 
                            Milton
                        . 5 items, 1830.
               United Presbyterian Church, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana. 202 items, 1833-1933. On deposit.
               Walpole, Horatio, first Baron Walpole. 91 items, 1715-1754.
               War of 1812. 3084 items, 1812-1815.
               Weeks, William C. 126 items, 1862-1879.
               Williams, Jonathan. 7182 items, 1766-1815.
               Williams, Samuel and Samuel Wesley. 3362 items, 1796-1916.
               Willis, Hugh Evander. 67 items, 1942-1945.
               Willkie Clubs of America (Associated). An estimated 65,000 items, 1940.
               Woodward Family. 62 items, 1844-1905.
               Wooley, Cary A. 42 items, 1862-1865.
               Wylie, Theophilus Adam. 1181 items, 1826-1895.
            
         
         
         
            
               Always the Young Strangers. By Carl Sandburg. (
                        New York
                    : Harcourt, Brace and Company, 1953, pp. 436. Index. $5.00.)
            On the last page of his thirtieth book, Sandburg quotes a Chinese proverb: "At seventy a man
                    is a candle in the wind"; but Always the Young Strangers testifies that
                    at seventy-five Sandburg's own flame is burning bright, clear, and steady. With it he has
                    illuminated his birthplace, Galesburg, Illinois, so as to bring out the highlights, the details, and
                    the shifting colors of a Midwestern small town in the last quarter of the nineteenth century. To a
                    somewhat lesser extent the book deals with the growing up of "Cully" Sandburg,
                    with his brothers and sisters, and with his Swedish immigrant parents. Scores of other people are
                    recalled in the book, sometimes memorably. There is thus a kind of harvest time richness and
                    retrospective quiet about the book as Sandburg looks back half a century and more.
            The fact of the book itself is a footnote to American history: Sandburg, perhaps the most versatile
                    of all American writers, is the son of a man who never learned to write. And Sandburg himself is a
                    living link, once removed, with Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    . As a boy in 
                        Galesburg
                    , Sandburg used to nod to 
                        Newton
                     Bateman, who had seen 
                        Lincoln
                    , agitated by the rumble of not-so-distant drums, pacing back and forth saying,
                    "I am nothing but truth is everything." History for 
                        Galesburg
                     mostly meant the Civil War. Young Sandburg used to contemplate a bronze plaque which
                    bore great words from a great debate held on the 
                        Knox
                     College campus: "He is blowing out the moral lights around us when he contends
                    that whoever wants slaves has a right to hold them." These words the biographer-to-be read
                    "in winter sunrise, in broad summer daylight, in falling snow or rain, in all the weathers
                    of a year."
            
               
                        Galesburg
                     at this time was still a pioneer town. At Old Settlers’ picnics Sandburg saw
                    men who remembered virgin prairie grass rising six feet, with roots so tough and tangled they often
                    broke the wooden plowshares. The old-timers seemed a mixed lot, some dolts, some roisterers, some
                    merely  drifters, others "heroes with dreams of making
                    an America to light the worlds overseas." Somehow the plains-breakers became a part of
                    Sandburg's growing mind, at a later time helping to fire it into poetry.
            Some of the old-timers were nasal-voiced Yankees, forming part of the New Englanders who were the
                    dominant group in 
                        Galesburg
                    , owning much property and setting the standards in education, politics, and religion.
                    There were also English and Scotch-Irish from 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    , these mostly Democrats in a Republican town. Then there were more recent arrivals:
                    Negroes, Irish, Swedes, a few 
                        German
                     Jews, the inevitable pair of Chinese laundrymen. Still later came Italians with their
                    "bawling brawling strengths."
            The winds of history blew through the prairie town, and Sandburg records their impact. When Grant
                    died, the town held its own funeral parade, the longest the town had ever seen. The seven-year-old
                    Sandburg watched it from his father's shoulders, making a face at a girl who irreverently
                    ate peanuts as the G.A.R. veterans marched past. 
                        Galesburg
                     seethed over the "anarshists." as the Swedes called them, who set off
                    the Haymarket Riot, and the town exulted over the hangings. When hard times came with the Panic of
                    1893, Sandburg recalls what it meant to a 
                        Galesburg
                     family: eating lard sprinkled with salt as a spread for bread; forming a little
                    neighborhood co-operative to buy and butcher a hog; kids getting for Christmas "a five cent
                    bag of candy, a large five cent orange, and a long sad look."
            Sandburg shows us social and economic change too. In his early years kids would watch the lamplighter
                    come along before dusk with his ladder and lighted taper; later they stood under an arc light and
                    when it went on looked quickly at the other arc lights two blocks away, half expecting that me would
                    be late in getting lighted. Progress showed up too in the way 
                        Galesburg
                    's board fences slowly disappeared, first around the homes of the rich, later
                    even at the Sandburg house. The reason was that roving livestock had become scarce. 
                        Galesburg
                     was becoming less prairie, more town.
            The picture of 
                        Galesburg
                     that Sandburg builds up little by little is an interesting one. It is perhaps the
                    truest and best balanced account yet written of the Midwestern small  town, avoiding the distortions (which are of course artistically
                    justifiable) of Edgar Watson Howe, Sinclair Lewis, and Sherwood Anderson, and yet possessing some
                    elements of their vision of rawness, violence, sexual hypocrisy, and spiritual and cultural poverty.
                    For instance, Sandburg concludes a chapter called "Where Shall We Go?",
                    which describes 
                        Galesburg
                    's meager recreational facilities, with an account of a lynch mob gathering
                    around the county jail one night. The obvious implication is that this was a grim sort of
                    entertainment in a town where there wasn't enough to do.
            But the lynching was averted by a cool-thinking sheriff, and 
                        Galesburg
                     was spared one of the worst stigmas. It was, by and large, as Sandburg reveals it, a
                    pretty good town for a boy to grow up in. It was a friendly community, whose amiability is reflected
                    in Sandburg's own precise (though occasionally uninteresting) recollections of literally
                    dozens of people. Many of them appear only briefly, but often they are observed with an insight that
                    brings them to life. There is, for instance, compassionate humor and understanding in
                    Sandburg's description of a railroad worker going to the Friday night meeting of the
                    Knights of Abbadabba, "walking with a quickstep, trying to look military and medieval in
                    his garments of glory…. He… had the comfort that soon he would be in the hall
                    where he would see his solemnly pledged brothers of the secret order in regalia the same as he was
                    wearing and there would be the ritual and he would know happiness and a mystic satisfaction that the
                    Q. railroad was not everything in this world."
            The townspeople made 
                        Galesburg
                     for Sandburg "a piece of the American Republic." The quick growth of
                    the town and its heterogeneous population stirred his curiosity and led him to thinking about a
                    bigger question which was to become, in the end, the supreme question for Sandburg: "All of
                    us living under the Stars and Stripes—what does it mean? Men have died for
                    it—why? When they say it is a free country, they mean free for what and free
                    for whom, and what is freedom?" Sandburg's resolve to seek for answers
                    is the start of that theme of wondering, groping, and searching that runs through nearly all of his
                    writings. He has, he tells us here, found answers to some of the questions over the years, but for
                    others he has found only "half-answers, mystery answers."
            
            Thus in a sense the autobiographical scope of Always the Young Strangers is
                    widened: to learn of 
                        Galesburg
                     is to learn of influences that helped shape the young Sandburg. Yet the book is an
                    autobiography only in a limited way, giving us chiaroscuro glimpses of the boy rather than a full
                    length portrait. Sandburg gives us, no doubt, what he considers essential, and modesty withholds the
                    trivial. But we see him, for example, as a three-year-old in dresses, climbing into a hitched wagon
                    and getting ready to drive off, and as a "six-year-old Republican" watching a
                    torchlight parade for James G. Blaine. In church he gazed at a mural of Elijah and wished to ascend
                    to heaven in a fiery chariot as did the prophet. The religious influence persisted, and Sandburg was
                    confirmed in the Lutheran church, though he rebelled at fire-and-brimstone preaching. He was a
                    typical enough boy to want to become a baseball player, yet sensitive enough to be saddened by the
                    sight of circus freaks. He was bashful, not much of a success with the girls and often tongue-tied
                    in their presence, but could hold his own with the boys.
            His distinguishing characteristic, however, it appears, was his intellectual curiosity; and as
                    autobiography the book is concerned chiefly with the education of Cully Sandburg. It came from
                    various sources. He seems to have profited by his early schooling; he wasn't sure just what
                    education was but felt he had gotten some in grammar school. For several years after eighth grade,
                    his learning was a self-imposed task. He read books, magazines, and newspapers; and he learned from
                    watching and talking to many kinds of people. He learned a good deal about thinking from Edward
                    Eggleston's How to Educate Yourself. Finally, he learned from his
                    numerous jobs, which, with his reverence for honest work, he describes more explicitly than he does
                    himself.
            When he was nineteen, his trip west as a hobo and "gaycat" (itinerant worker) was a
                    succession of hard jobs and encounters with new people. He took it not long after a winter in which,
                    half hating 
                        Galesburg
                     and himself, dissatisfied with blind alley jobs, and feeling himself a failure with
                    girls, he comtemplated suicide "in bitter and lonely hours." After weighing the
                    merits of various forms of self-destruction, he became more cheerful. "The idea came to me
                    like a dawning. ‘If death is what you want all you have to  do is live on and it will come to you like a nice surprise you never
                    imagined.'"
            The trip west added to the boy's maturity. He came back from it—after nearly
                    losing his life riding a freight car—with greater self-respect and self-confidence. When
                    the "
                        Maine
                    " was sunk in Havana harbor he was ready for a longer trip to 
                        Cuba
                     as a private in the Sixth 
                        Illinois
                     Volunteers. He was issued a Civil War uniform and spent lonely hours on guard duty
                    reciting Gray's "Elegy" and the sad poem that so touched 
                        Lincoln
                    , "Oh Why Should the Spirit of Mortal Be Proud?"
            Sandburg returned from the war unscarred and un-embittered but with memories of dirt, fatigue,
                    mosquitoes, and embalmed beef. He was something of a hero, and he had a new purpose: to go to
                    college. And he found that his military career had pleased his father, making the old man feel that
                    now he was really an American citizen.
            But there had not always been warmth between the son and the father, a hardworking, taciturn Swede.
                    Early one Christmas morning, young Sandburg pointed to the sky, "You know, some of those
                    stars are millions of miles away." The father sniffed and said, "We won't
                    bodder about dat now, Sholly." He was, too, capable of striking his son on occasion. He
                    could rise to drollery and playfulness, but his dominant mood was serious. Nevertheless, the
                    relationship was one of gradually unfolding understanding and sympathy on the part of the son, who
                    admits to an early attitude of smart-aleck superiority towards the old man. With maturity came
                    recognition of the parent's rather barren lot and of his good qualities, his
                    industriousness, his honesty, his loyalty to his family.
            Sandburg's portrait of his father is one of the most memorable elements of the book, with
                    its precisely recorded details and its fairness and candor. Equally vivid, however, and more moving
                    is Sandburg's account of his mother, a sturdy, blonde, blue-eyed Swedish girl as he first
                    remembers her. She was a faithful wife, a mother with great resources of love, a warmth her husband
                    lacked, a sweetness of temper that could absorb and soften his anger. Yet she too was an earnest
                    person, and she had a deep simple piety, an inner radiance that brightened as she aged. It shone
                    unforgettable  in a "Souvenir," as she called
                    it, that she wrote shortly before her death. It has touches of an astonishing poetry:
                    "Crushed am I many times but not yet to death. The aprons of silence is with me. Silence is
                    a gift. Be silent."
            The virtues of Always the Young Strangers as writing are quiet but very solid ones.
                    The book moves mostly in a colloquial vein whose easy flow and apparent simplicity may conceal from
                    the hasty reader its artistry and subtle variations. For the most part Sandburg writes so as to
                    suggest a youthful view-point, as when he says laconically of a sour-tempered milkman, he worked
                    for, "Mr. Burton… never talked to me like he had been a
                    boy…." Or he says of a favorite lodger, "I don't get tired
                    trying to think of what he was like…." Only rarely is there a burst of
                    Sandburgian poetry: "The land laughed with spuds"; at the death of a friend:
                    "It could be that in the pave his hands might dream of 
                        Illinois
                     corn…." Because it is used sparingly, the poetry is that much more
                    effective.
            Early reviews of Always the Young Strangers have tended to run to extremes. It has
                    been called the greatest American autobiography and a pretty bad book. It would appear wiser, on the
                    one hand, to avoid invidious and rather pointless comparisons, particularly in view of the fact that
                    this is only the start of an autobiography; on the other hand, it would be rewarding to read the
                    book carefully and perceptively. Sandburg's extraordinary kindness, humility, and honesty,
                    as well as his fine ability to evoke, to suggest, to report boyhood in a young prairie town before
                    the turn of the century—these qualities and achievements deserve recognition and high
                    praise. Their combination makes a rare sort of book, a very valuable addition to the literature of
                    the Midwest and of America.
            Indiana University.
            Parry E. Stroud
         
         
            
               On Freedom's Altar: The Martyr Complex in the Abolition Movement. By
                    Hazel Catherine Wolf. (
                        Madison
                    : University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 1952, pp. xii, 195. Bibliography and index. $3.75.)
            The plaint of the Preacher, "it hath been already of old time," might be
                    appropriated as a meet comment on the present  effort. That many
                    of antislavery persuasion went about their business with singular zeal; that they encountered legal
                    prosecution, ostracism and violence; and that their sacrifices added numbers and influence to the
                    cause are conclusions both common and acceptable. Evidently Miss Wolf has sought to do little more
                    than give a measure of unity and coherence to a theme suggested before.
            The thirty years anterior to the Civil War form the corpus of the book. Two background chapters
                    establish the premises that "By the third decade of the nineteenth century
                    [1830's] the martyr concept was a revered American tradition" (p.7) and that
                    "Opposition to American slavery… was as old as the institution itself"
                    (p. 11). About 1830 the two elements fused to give incomparable vigor to the abolition crusade. The
                    martyr concept, the attributes of which are obligingly set down early in the book, seems to have
                    performed a double service for the antislavery movement. Directly, it was a determinant of
                    individual conduct toward the "peculiar institution." The selfless intensity of
                    abolitionists in turn acted as a leaven to Northern opinion and gradually conditioned it for war and
                    the extinction of slavery. In filling out this skeleton of interpretation there has been no resort
                    to an esoteric methodology. Miss Wolf has relied chiefly on biographical sketches of antislaverly
                    agitators coupled with excerpts from contemporary public opinion. The one ostensibly illustrates the
                    martyr idea as a motivating principle, the other its impact on the public consciousness. Most of the
                    candidates selected for martyrdom are familiar figures and commentary on them is largely derived
                    from abolitionist sources. The story is compactly put together when its characters can be neatly
                    fitted into a temporal sequence. However, the drought of eligible martyrs for a dozen years after
                    the Mexican War probably accounts for an incongruous chapter on abolitionist political activity.
                    This bridges the gap from martyr to martyr and keeps up the formal continuity. A
                    résumé of John 
                        Brown
                     and a chapter on the Civil War round out the content.
            One is less disposed to grumble at the reworking of old material than at the failure to use wisely
                    and well the fruits of earlier industry. The handling of John 
                        Brown
                     is perhaps the most flagrant example. Here, neither in the  scrutiny of evidence nor in the presentation of factual material has
                    the author been careful. James C. Malin was the latest to warn that caution must be used in tracing
                    the evolution of 
                        Brown
                    's prejudices toward slavery. Miss Wolf is untroubled by such inhibitions,
                    accepting 
                        Brown
                     and his militant apologists as authoritative in this matter. Too, there are numerous
                    inaccuracies in the better-known part of 
                        Brown
                    's career. The date ordinarily used for the organization of the League of
                    Gileadites is 1851 not 1850 and the place, Springfield, Massachusetts not Ohio (p. 113). Were the
                    Negroes armed by the raiders at Harpers Ferry brought there under compulsion or had they
                    "straggled in from nearby farms" (p. 117)? The assertion that 
                        Brown
                     "ignored the entire proceedings of his… trial" (p.118) is
                    something besides correct in view of his excoriation of the Virginians appointed to defend him and
                    his frequent examination of witnesses. This enumeration of misstatements is merely representative.
            Miss Wolf works diligently to make her prose as zestful as her subject. The success she may have had
                    is countered by repetitiousness. Phrases, quotations, and ideas are used as though quality and
                    diversity were mortal enemies. Occasionally, the author writes in forgetfulness of what she has
                    previously said. For instance, with Lovejoy's death "Abolition had its first
                    martyr…" (p. 44) yet "abolition martyrs both preceded and followed
                    Elijah Lovejoy" (p. 50). Many generalizations are flimsy. Had early Americans seen
                    "religious… conflicts as intense as those of the old world" (p. 5) or
                    did Sumter signify to "the men of the free states" that "The
                    South… opposed the great principle of human liberty" (p. 133)? A
                    quaint interpretation holds that the Liberty party "nullified its own future" in
                    the 1844 election because it argued "that the effects of the panic were really due to the
                    incompatibility of slavery and prosperity," a contention belied "by the return of
                    good times after 1844" (p. 102). It would be hard to demonstrate a correlation between
                    party prosperity and the validity of campaign arguments. The monograph has its quota of hackneyed
                    observations such as "The situation in ‘bleeding 
                        Kansas
                    ’ wag no testimonial for the squatter sovereignty principle" (p.
                    109). If "Amos A. Phelps… won acclaim from abolitionists for defining  slavery as the ‘holding of a human being as
                    property’" (p. 77) the wonder is that the agitation was not stifled for want of
                    original thought. Careful revision might have culled out remarks like "political
                    abolitionists continued their efforts in politics" (p.105). Here and there felicitous
                    phraseology is substituted for exactness. A first generation 
                        Puritan
                     hardly would have sorrowed because he "had never experienced the ecstasy of
                    religious conversion" (p.8).
            Regretfully this reviewer believes that a slender volume might have been abridged without violence to
                    its essential content.
            Indiana University
            Ralph E. Morrow
         
         
            
               Agricultural Discontent in the Middle West; 1900-1939. By Theodore Saloutos and
                    John D. Hicks. (
                        Madison
                    : University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 1951, pp. ix, 581. Index and map. $6.75.)
            This book is the outgrowth of Hicks history seminars at the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     during the 1930's of which Saloutos was then a member. It is the joint product
                    of both, with Hicks the author of the first two and fourth chapters in which he defines the area,
                    crops, and causes of agricultural discontent; the transition from populism of the 1890's to
                    insurgency of the first decade of the 1900's: and the impact of World War I on American
                    agriculture. Saloutos then takes on the greater part of the book in sixteen chapters devoted to the
                    development of the co-operative movement during this period, the American Society of Equity, the
                    Non-partisan League, the Farmers Union, the American Farm Bureau Federation, the Farm Bloc of the
                    early 1920's, the Farmer-Labor party and the Election of 1924, the McNary-Haugen movement,
                    the Farm Strike movement, the New Deal farm program and the concluding chapter summarizing the book.
            The authors have restricted their studies to the area embracing the nine North Central States west of
                    the Lake 
                        Michigan
                    -Indiana line as "the region of discontent." While this delineation
                    may be justified as a regional study, the reviewer feels that an integrated survey of agricultural
                    discontent  for the country as a whole, as manifested in the
                    national farm organization would have enchanced its value satisfied the natural curiosity of the
                    student and the general reader, and made it a more fitting continuation of Buck's The Granger Movement and Hicks’ The Populist Revolt.
                    This task still awaits accomplishment. But the present book should not be judged as such.
            The chapters comprising this book are the product of painstaking research and sound scholarship. They
                    are based on a wide variety and number of sources as shown by the footnotes fortifying nearly every
                    page: publications of farm organizations, farm journals, government publications, books and
                    monographs, periodical literature, and newspapers. The chief merit of the book is its objectivity in
                    the treatment of subject matter. It brings together a great deal of useful information not otherwise
                    available in convenient form. It is serviceable as a reference work and as a text for courses on
                    farm organization for this period.
            Several criticisms may be ventured. The book may be described as a series of essays presented in
                    chronological order rather than as an integrated historical study; hence an apparent lack of
                    continuity. Some of the chapters are of disproportionate length. Two chapters of sixty-nine pages
                    are devoted to the Nonpartisan League (reprinted in full from Agriculture
                    History), and thirty-seven pages to the American Society of Equity: a total of one hundred and
                    six pages (over one-sixth of the book), while the American Farm Bureau Federation is given but
                    thirty pages. The absence of a classified bibliography impairs the value of the book for those who
                    use the volume as a reference.
            Despite these criticisms it is a worthy contribution to the history of the farmers’
                    movement in the 
                        United States
                     for which the authors are to be commended.
            Tucson, 
                        Arizona
                    
            
            Louis Bernard Schmidt
         
         
         
            
               Schuyler Colfax: The Changing Fortunes of a Political Idol. By Willard H. Smith.
                    Volume 33, Indiana Historical Collections. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Bureau, 1952, pp. xii, 475. Illustrations, bibliography, and index.
                    $4.75.)
            Schuyler Colfax was a political idol who fell from his high place as a result of a
                    scandal—the Crédit Mobilier. The period of idolatry, ushered in by political
                    revolt in 1854, was followed by a bloody civil war and brought to an end by cries of corruption in
                    high places in 1873. It is to these nineteen years that Smith devotes all but three chapters of his
                    biographical study of the changing fortunes of Schuyler Colfax.
            The author strikes a middle course between the adulatory phrases of an earlier biography written by
                    the brother-in-law of Colfax, and the public censure heaped upon those who were caught in the
                    machinations of the construction company with the high-sounding name. The biography thus becomes a
                    recounting of the public life of Schuyler Colfax in the attempt to draw fire away from the
                    "tendency of many writers to interpret the life and work of Colfax in the light of the
                    Credit Mobilier blunder."
            This tactical move is difficult to accomplish when one considers the career of Colfax, and the
                    political climate in which he grew to maturity. His political background, was a mixture of Whiggery,
                    Knownothingism, and reform which led him into the ranks of the Indiana Republicans.
            He was elected to a Congress in 1855 which had forsaken its legislative function as the democratic
                    process slowly bogged down into the mire of sectional chaos. In this political environment, Colfax
                    was ever-faithful to his party and was extremely popular with his fellow Republicans. Elevated to
                    the speakership of the national House in 1863, he remained the affable member from Indiana. His
                    highest political office was the vice-presidency under Grant in 1868. Under our constitutional
                    system, this office does not lend itself to the creation of political giants in the normal course of
                    events. For Schuyler Colfax, not yet fifty, this office was somewhat of a let-down after the
                    hurly-burly of the House. But he seemed to become an increasingly popular figure in an
                    administration undistinguished in the matter of leadership. The crest of his political career was
                    reached  when his name was mentioned as his party's
                    successor to Grant. The revelations of his implication in the Crédit Mobilier scandals
                    ended this talk. Colfax left public office in 1873 never to return.
            In appraising the public life of Colfax, Smith makes these assessments. Although Colfax the
                    congressman was not the father of any great legislative measure bearing his name, he did influence
                    the passage of many legislative acts. As Speaker of the House, his current biographer pronounces
                    Colfax one of the greats in the chair. Colfax the vice-president seemed to accomplish all that was
                    expected of him, not the least of which was to defend the Grant administration.
            The Crédit Mobilier involvement is treated by this biographer as a study in historical
                    evidence. After sifting the maze of contradictory testimony, Smith is not prone to make unqualified
                    statements. He finds Colfax guilty of "tampering with a stock with which he should have had
                    nothing to do, but with all the aspects of which he was very likely not aquainted." Nor
                    does he excuse Colfax for his misleading public statements in connection with the scandal. Finally,
                    he feels that if Colfax had sought vindication, it would have been forthcoming, and he could have
                    re-entered public life if he had chosen to do so.
            Considering his political acts alone, it is difficult to understand why Colfax has become so
                    important in the eyes of his biographer. However, if one may judge a man by the company he keeps, it
                    can be said that Colfax was at home in the circles of the prominent, both in and out of politics. He
                    was a joiner, a lodge official for many years. On the public platform, he was a pleasing and popular
                    orator. Finally, there may well be some clue to his success in his nickname,
                    "Smiler" Colfax. His gregarious nature served him well during his career.
            This biography represents a long and tireless search for widely scattered Colfax materials in
                    libraries from coast to coast. Smith has been most diligent in his task. The result is a
                    well-documented study of a Hoosier politician which will be helpful not only to students of Indiana
                    history but also to those who seek to learn more about the national political leaders of the Civil
                    War generation.
            Henry Ford Museum and 
                        Greenfield
                     Village
            Roger H. Van Bolt
         
         
         
            
               Benjamin Harrison: Hoosier Warrior, 1833-1865. By Harry Sievers, S. J.
                    Introduction by Hilton U. Brown. (
                        Chicago
                    : Henry Regnery Company, 1952, pp. xxi, 344. Illustrations, bibliography, and index.
                    $5.00.)
            Benjamin Harrison, sometime President of the 
                        United States
                     and grandson of a president, is 
                        Indianapolis
                    ’ most famous citizen. "Great Lives Do Not Go Out, They Go," said Harrison once about General Grant, and his fellow citizens,
                    thinking the words appropriate, carved them on the base of a Harrison memorial statue in his home
                    city. For long years uncertainty and indecision kept the Harrison papers out of the sight of
                    historians. Then at last the Arthur 
                        Jordan
                     Foundation turned the task of erecting an "authorized" literary
                    monument of the city's first citizen over to Father Harry Sievers.
            The first volume, constituting the pedestal of the monument, is carved in glistening white stone. It
                    carries young Benjamin Harrison from his 
                        Ohio
                     childhood through preparatory school and through Miami University. Then, in
                    Harrison's words, he found a choice of a profession between "theology, law and
                    physics." He chose law—because, as the author explains in a curious rendition of
                    the document, he "had little taste for the pinched existence of an experimental
                    physicist." He read law, married, hung out a hopeful shingle in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , entered Republican politics, worked piously in the Presbyterian church, and became
                    city attorney and then reporter for the State Supreme Court. Then came the Civil War, and after a
                    time Governor Oliver P. Morton commissioned Harrison to raise a regiment. He led his troops in
                    routine duties into 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    , and eventually won his spurs—and a belated promotion to brevet
                    brigadier-general—in the 
                        Atlanta
                     campaign. He returned home for the election of 1864, regained his office, returned to
                    the war for the battles around 
                        Nashville
                    , and, after another visit home, rejoined the western army in 
                        North Carolina
                     and paraded in 
                        Washington
                     in the Grand Review. He was then thirty-two, a modest young man devoted to to his wife,
                    his family, and his church, with a modest record of success in law, politics, and the army. His
                    character was unblemished; his personality undramatic.
            
            Perhaps, after all, this is the whole story of Benjamin Harrison. He was still, when this volume
                    ends, twenty-three years from the White House. In 1888 a campaign biographer said of him:
                    "Benjamin Harrison was a typical American boy, and destined to be a typical American
                    man." Further, with no suggestion of contradiction, he quoted a friend's opinion:
                    "Indeed there is no defect in him anywhere." And General Lew Wallace, also writing
                    a campaign biography that year, declared: "His character, both public and private, is
                    absolutely stainless." Then, he predicted, "The writer who finishes this
                    biography, beginning where we leave off, will find his subject exactly what it has been to
                    us—too pleasant to be accounted a task." It is clear that Father Sievers has
                    found his task pleasant and his subject worthy of a new glistening-white literary monument. The
                    Arthur 
                        Jordan
                     Foundation's chairman rightfully concluded: "This book puts Benjamin
                    Harrison on his proper pedestal as Indiana's first citizen."
            University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    
            
            William B. Hesseltine
         
         
            
               George Rogers Clark, Soldier in the West. By Walter Havighurst. (
                        New York
                    : McGraw Hill Brook Company, Inc., 1952, pp. vii, 216. End maps, index, and
                    illustrations. $3.00.)
            This life of George Rogers Clark is written in popular style and should appeal particularly to
                    younger readers. Brief, readable, full of descriptive detail, the book is also attractive in
                    appearance, with a good map for end papers, and drawings by Jack Moment at each chapter heading.
            Several introductory chapters build up a picture of Clark by describing the 
                        Virginia
                     of his boyhood, and the 
                        Kentucky
                     where he had arrived by 1774 at the age of twenty-two. A major of the 
                        Kentucky
                     County Militia two years later, he was soon able to see the importance of taking and
                    holding the west in the War for Independence. The story of the 
                        Illinois
                     expedition and the later events is dramatically retold, but the account of the
                    ‘troubles and frustrations which then beset Clark until the end of his life is less
                    successful. However, Havighurst brings younger brother William onto the scene and that can be
                    another story.
            
            Certain errors might well have been eliminated in re-checking the manuscript. With Clark at 
                        St. Louis
                    , the Wa-bash lay to the east (p. 168), not the west. And Father Gibault (pp.104-5) was
                    no Jesuit! The Jesuits, with prestige gone, had been banished from 
                        Louisiana
                     and their property confiscated in the last days of the French regime. Father Meurin on
                    the eve of leaving the country was granted his plea to return to his 
                        Illinois
                     parish. There in feeble health with so large an area to serve he was finally sent an
                    assistant—Father Gibault. Gibault's letters to his superiors at Quebec contain
                    many comments on the difficulties of being the colleague of a Jesuit.
            
               
                        Illinois
                     Historical Survey
            Marguerite J. Pease
         
         
            
               Industry Comes of Age, 1901-1917. Volume III of The Stark County
                        Story. By Edward Thornton Heald. (Canton, 
                        Ohio
                    : The Stark County Historical Society, 1952, pp. xv, 822. Maps, illustrations, appendix,
                    and index, $11.00.)
            As in the case of the preceding volumes of this series, this is a study based on the radio scripts
                    for weekly broadcasts dealing with the history of an important 
                        Ohio
                     county. No effort was made to integrate the local material with the history of the
                    state and nation, but careful research was employed to ascertain that there was a substantial basis
                    for the facts presented.
            The period covered is one of only sixteen years but one of revolutionary importance for Canton, the
                    principal city (which grew in population from 30,667 in 1900 to 87,091 in 1920), and for the two
                    other leading cities, Alliance and Massillon. Emphasis is properly given to the tremendous
                    industrial development, as concerns like the Timken Roller Bearing Company (now the world's
                    largest roller bearing company) and the Hoover Company (the world's most important
                    producers of vacuum cleaners) of Canton, were important examples of the great upsurge of
                    manufacturing in the county.
            This was of course the period of the introduction of the automobile and moving picture as significant
                    aspects of the social and cultural life, and appropriate attention is given  to attendant changes in community development. The "New
                    Immigration" from southern and eastern Europe is also shown to have altered the cultural
                    pattern.
            In relation to the rural sections of the county, the Hartville swamp industry, devoted to truck
                    farming, and the expanding cheese factories are given considerable attention.
            Definite emphasis is placed on the careers of the leaders who figured prominently in the industrial,
                    civic, and cultural progress. Much of the detail included is of strictly local interest, and for
                    such a purpose the volume will be a useful book of reference. For other students of state and local
                    history there is a mass of information which illustrates the amazing industrial progress of the
                    Middle West during the opening decades of the twentieth century.
            
                    The 
                            Ohio
                         State University
                
            Francis P. Weisenburger
         
         
            
               This Is 
                            Detroit
                        : Two Hundred and Fifty Years in Pictures, 1701–1952. By M. M.
                    Quaife and edited by William White. (
                        Detroit
                    : 
                        Wayne
                     University Press, 1961, pg. x, 198. $3.50, paper $2.00.)
            
               "This is 
                            Detroit
                        
                undertakes to picture the development of 
                        Detroit
                     from an outpost of New 
                        France
                    , deep in the heart of the American wilderness, to the great industrial center of
                    1951." The revolutionary advance in photography, the increasing circulation of pictorial
                    magazines and historical albums, and the mounting desire to preserve and perpetuate the record of
                    numerous events and achievements all combine to foster publication of such volumes. Centennials,
                    sesquicentennials, and even two hundred and fiftieth anniversaries, are now yearly events in the
                    various regions of the 
                        United States
                    .
            Milo M. Quaife has prepared this pictorial account of the automobile city with the direct and
                    indirect assistance of numerous persons. One could raise questions about the smallness of certain
                    pictures, the lack of an index, the general absence of footnote citations, and whether the
                    illustrations used are as representative as others which might have been selected, but for the most
                    part this kind of comment would be mere quibbling. Vastly more important than such  remarks is the observation that this book contains about four hundred
                    pictures and commentary which provide varied and interesting glimpses of 
                        Detroit
                    's first two hundred and fifty years, as seen through the eyes of a master
                    historical craftsman.
            "The reader will find numerous gaps in the story," the author readily admits,
                    "for the earlier period because of lack of pictures, for the more recent decades because of
                    lack of space to develop the story more fully." Similar compilers will normally face
                    exactly the same problem.
            Books of this kind—some audio-visual zealots to the contrary
                    notwithstanding—are only supplemental to and never substitutes for standard and definite
                    histories. Quaife clearly recognizes this important consideration in his preface and indicates a
                    hope that individuals will "be excited to the point of reading one or more of the many
                    books on 
                        Detroit
                    'e history."
            After brief chapters illustrating first the French and then the British periods, three additional
                    ones bring the story through the American era to approximately the advent of the present century.
                    Then successive topical chapters picture "The Changing Scene," "The City
                    by Day and Night," "Comes the Automobile," "Churches and
                    Schools," "Order and Public Safety," "Nationalities and
                    Housing," "The River," "Transportation," and
                    "Recreation." Two final pages contrast the old and the new by showing a sketch of
                    Cadillac's fort against significant contemporary municipal enterprises.
            A careful thumbing of the pictures makes it apparent that 
                        Detroit
                     is in many ways principally the result of changes which have occurred since about 1900
                    when its population was less than 300,000, in contrast to its approximately 3,000, 000 inhabitants
                    for the metropolitan area today. But the two hundred years of background and germination before the
                    advent of the twentieth century were of great importance: by 1763 it had been decided that 
                        Detroit
                     was to be English and not French; by about 1796 it had been resolved that it was to be
                    American and not English. But the influence of the past reaches back much farther to make 
                        Detroit
                     what it now is, prompting Quaife to explain that the city illustrates how
                    "nature herself predestines certain spots as the sites of future metropolises."
                    Man and nature have made other great cities like 
                        Detroit
                    , but the citizens of them all are today in  large
                    part reaping harvests—both good and bad—which are a legacy from the past. One
                    of the finest qualities of this volume is its efforts to show clearly that the present is much
                    indebted to all that has gone before.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               The 
                            Texas
                         Revolution. By William C. Binkley. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1952, pp. ix, 132. $2.50.)
            This book is a collection of five lectures which the author delivered at 
                        Louisiana
                     State University in 
                        Baton Rouge
                     and covers the tenth series of The Walter Lynwood Fleming Lectures in Southern History
                    sponsored by that institution. Nine lectures have already been published—an impressive
                    array of which 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press can be justly proud.
            Regretting the fact that society at large and historical political writers in particular have not hit
                    upon a working definition of the term "revolution," Binkley states in his first
                    lecture, The Eve of Revolution: "With the hope of making a small contribution toward the
                    attainment of the ultimate goal, therefore, these lectures will undertake to examine and explain the
                    struggle by which a group of Anglo-Americans in 
                        Texas
                     gained their independence from Mexican rule in 1836." He told his audience
                    that the 
                        Texas
                     Revolution had been termed "a deliberate design of the South to extend the
                    slave territory," that speculators had been accused of a plot "to enhance the
                    value of their investments," and that outraged freemen were in "a spontaneous
                    uprising… against the threat of tyrannical oppression." Since Binkley did not
                    believe that any of tho three characterizations could be accepted as accurate, he undertook in his
                    first lecture to picture the circumstances out of which the 
                        Texas
                     Revolution developed. In a summary of his first lecture Binklev pointed out that
                    certain special difficulties, such as lack of facilities for adequate communication between the
                    different parts of the province, the use of government convict troops instead of a native militia
                    force to check against Indian marauders, and the abandonment of the empresario system in 1834 in
                    favor uf speculation in 
                        Texas
                     lands on a wholesale plan had brought 
                        Texas
                     to "a turning point in its development."
            
            On the eve of the revolution, that is, toward the end of 1834, the Mexican government provided for
                    establishing new municipalities, for creating the new department of the Brazos, and for organizing a
                    judicial system for 
                        Texas
                    , and thus strengthened the conservative element in 
                        Texas
                    . When Stephen F. Austin's prolonged detention in 
                        Mexico
                     was extended into 1835 the so-called war party began to crystallize, but by July of
                    that year the peace group was in control. The arrest of William Barrett Travis and five other men by
                    Ugartechea destroyed the advantages which the peace party had gained. David G. Burnet on August 8
                    asked for a convention for an interchange of opinions. In this second lecture, The Preliminaries to
                    the Revolution, Binkley relates the incidents which in rapid succession tended to increase the
                    strain. On September 19, 1835, Stephen F. Austin said in a circular letter: "War is our
                    only resource [recourse?]. There is no other remedy."
            In his third lecture, The Struggle for the Federal Constitution, Binkley relates the efforts made by
                    the Texans to have the protection of 
                        Mexico
                    's constitution which dated back to 1824. The Texans had come to believe that
                    the Mexican government was bent upon depriving them of rights and privileges guaranteed by that
                    constitution. The first military clash occurred at Gonzales on the Guadalupe on October 2, 1835, and
                    the Texans succeeded in routing a Mexican force that had been sent to obtain the cannon at Gonzales.
                    Resistance had now "become an accomplished fact," and Stephen F. Austin in a
                    circular address "emphasized the destruction of the federal constitution." Ten
                    days later the Texans started on their march to San Antonio in the full belief that they could
                    "close the military career of Cos in 
                        Texas
                    ." On October 16, 1835, thirty-two of eighty-four elected delegates assembled
                    at San Felipe for a consultation. A permanent council, which had been organized by that time, became
                    part of the consultation when that body met definitely on November 1. Binkley points out how
                    Austin's influence prevailed in that body for "defense of the constitution of
                    1824" rather than for fighting for independence. A report presented by a committee of
                    twelve on November 7 emphasized the overthrowing of 
                        Mexico
                    's federal institutions by Santa Anna, "the defense of the republican
                    principles of the federal constitution  of 
                        Mexico
                    ," and a willingness to "continue faithful to the Mexican government
                    as long as that nation is governed by the constitution and laws" of 1824. Since the
                    consultation provided for a governor, a council, and a deputy governor for a provisional government
                    and outlined their powers, it chose Henry Smith and James W. Robinson to the two executive
                    positions. It went even farther by electing Sam 
                        Houston
                     from its own ranks as major general to command the regular army. The listing of further
                    incidents and actions would unnecessarily lengthen the discussion of the third lecture which ends
                    with the well-known 
                        Texas
                     declaration of independence.
            The fourth lecture carries the title, Independence and Political Stability, and carries the story of
                    the 
                        Texas
                     revolution beyond the actual achievement of independence with Santa Anna's
                    defeat and capture at San Jacinto on April 21, 1836. Preceding that achievement came the meeting of
                    a convention on March 1, 1836, which declared independence on March 2, 1836, on the basis of
                    fourteen specific grievances against 
                        Mexico
                    , the naming of a committee to draw up R constitution, the fall of the 
                        Alamo
                    , and the establishment of an ad interim government under David G. Burnet as president
                    and six other high-ranking officials which had to carry out the terms of the treaty of Velasco. The
                    capture of Santa Anna brought up new problems which Binkley explains under four headings. The big
                    problem that outweighed all others was that of attaining political stability which was accomplished
                    finally with the adoption of a constitution and the inauguration of Sam 
                        Houston
                     as the constitutional president of the Republic of 
                        Texas
                    .
            The last fourteen pages of the discussion formed a perforation in which the lecturer summed up what
                    he had said. In a beautiful figure of speech Binkley wrote: "Actually, these [military
                    operations and political interests and activities] constitute the warp of a pattern for which the
                    woof is provided by a multiplicity of related problems of a more or less special nature and by the
                    personalities and interests of a large number of individuals who had a part in determining its
                    design."
            
                    The University of 
                            Texas
                        
               
                
            Rudolph L. Biesele
         
         
         
            
               Before Lewis and Clark: Documents Illustrating the History of the 
                            Missouri
                        , 1785-1804. Edited by A. P. Nasatir. (
                        St. Louis
                    : 
                        St. Louis
                     Historical Documents Foundation, 1952, two volumes, pp. xv, 853. Illustrations, index,
                    and maps. $15.00.)
            After a brief preface Nasatir presents an introduction of 115 pages dealing with the exploration of
                    the 
                        Missouri River
                     from 1673 to 1804, or from the voyage of Marquette and Joliet to the Lewis and Clark
                    expedition. He disposes briefly of the La Hontan narrative, sketches the French activities down to
                    1714, and then devotes two sections to the expeditions of Bourgmont, Du Tisne, the Mallet brothers,
                    La Verendrye, and others. After the outbreak of the French and Indian war Frenchmen were seldom seen
                    on the 
                        Missouri
                    . The remainder of the introduction deals with the Spanish period and Anglo-Spanish
                    rivalry for the Indian trade of the 
                        Missouri River
                     country. The account is thoroughly documented by references to source materials
                    discovered by the editor in his extensive research in the archives of 
                        France
                    , 
                        Spain
                    , 
                        England
                    , and in various repositories in the 
                        United States
                    . He is of the opinion that the Spanish would soon have undertaken the exploit
                    accomplished by Lewis and Clark if their rule in the upper 
                        Mississippi Valley
                     had not been brought to a close. There could be dispute about his statement that by the
                    Nootks Sound Convention the Spanish yielded their exclusive control of the land along the Pacific
                    north of the forty-second parallel.
            The remainder of the volumes is taken up by documents of the Spanish period after 1785. The largest
                    number of these documents consists of correspondence between Zenon Trudeau, Lieutenant-Governor of
                    Upper 
                        Louisiana
                     (or Spanish 
                        Illinois
                     as it was then called) and commandant at 
                        St. Louis
                    , and Baron Carondelet, Governor-General of 
                        Louisiana
                     at 
                        New Orleans
                    . This correspondence deals mainly with the problems of trade with the often treacherous
                    Indian tribes of the 
                        Missouri
                    , especially the Osages. There are some interesting letters relating to the proposed
                    expedition of Lieutenant John Armstrong up the 
                        Missouri
                     in 1890, as well as Jefferson's instructions to André Michaux for
                    his abortive expedition up the same river in 1793. Other documents of interest are the journal of J.
                    B. Truteau (not Trudeau) on the 
                        Missouri
                    
                     River in 1794-1795, and his description of the Upper 
                        Missouri
                    , James Mackay's journal of 1797, extracts from John Evans’ journal,
                    the articles of incorporation of the 
                        Missouri
                     Company in 1794, and a number of letters reflecting Spanish reaction to news of the
                    Lewis and Clark expedition.
            These documents contain references to a large number of Indian tribes, the names of which would be
                    difficult to identify were not for a very comprehensive and detailed index. They reveal the vague
                    geographical knowledge of the far west on the part of the Spanish and their firm belief that the 
                        Missouri
                     must be defended because it opened a way to their rich possessions in New 
                        Mexico
                    . The two volumes admirably supplement certain portions of Bernard De Voto's
                    recently published Course of Empire. They will constitute a mine of information
                    for all who are interested in the Indians and the trade of the 
                        Missouri River
                     region prior to 1804.
            
                    University of 
                            Oregon
                        
               
                
            Dan E. Clark
         
         
            
               Forests for the Future: The Story of Sustained Yield As Told in the Diaries and
                        Papers of David T. Mason, 1907-1950. Introductory Texts and Notes by Rodney C. Loehr. (
                        St. Paul
                    , 
                        Minnesota
                    : The Forests Products History Foundation, 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, 1952, pp. xi, 269. Index, appendix, illustrations.
                    $3.50.)
            The December 1952 issue of American Forests went to subscribers accompanied by a
                    supplement. of thirty-two pages prepared by the Conservation Foundation of 
                        New York City
                    . Taking a broad perspective it discussed what the Forest! Service, industry, and
                    conservationists have to say about American forestry, and among other things it praised the way
                    "private enterprise has greatly improved forest management wherever forest land is held by
                    corporations with extensive investments in mills."
            Aspects of this notable improvement in private forestry have been the main concern of David T. Mason
                    in his professional life, his diary and public papers, and in his Forests for the
                        Future as put together by Loehr. The book is an important, first-hand, insider's
                    account of a key idea in modern forestry—sustained yield. 
                        Mason
                    , says Loehr, "has done more than any other individual to further sustained
                    yield  forestry in this country." The concept, in 
                        Mason
                    's words, is the management of "particular forest lands in such a way
                    that the annual cut of forest products is in balance with the current and expected net growth of the
                    lands, so that annually without future interruption the lands may yield approximately a given volume
                    of forest products."
            The core of Forests for the Future, the diary, is in brief, irregular entries. The
                    diary compactly traces 
                        Mason
                    's life as forest ranger from 
                        Colorado
                     in 1907 through other Forest Service years in other western states, as forestry teacher
                    at the University of 
                        California
                     (1915-1917), as captain in the Tenth Engineers, Forestry, in southwestern 
                        France
                     during the first world war (where he saw some "very close
                    utilization" of lumbered trees), and as consulting forest engineer, with an office in
                    Portland, Oregon, 1921 to 1943 (when the diary ends, although 
                        Mason
                     is still actively working). A long portion of the book is concerned with his labors in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., in connection with the Lumber Code Authority of the NRA.
            Here are on-the-spot notes by an eminent forecaster, a national figure, who has been intimate with
                    political leaders such as Charles L. McNary and Herbeft, Hoover and with top-rank lumbermen all over
                    the country, including members of the Weyerhauser dynasty. 
                        Mason
                     appears to have attended all the important meetings of timbermen and foresters and
                    economic planners. His professional work took him much into the field. From 1919 on he was a
                    champion of voluntary good forestry by private owners. From 1927 on sustained yield
                    ("s.Y." in the diary) was a topic wherever 
                        Mason
                     was present. Entry after entry shows him mediating between forest owners and the Forest
                    Service, or working toward changes in the laws, state and federal, that affect forest taxation, fire
                    prevention, and the cropping of forest lands. He stood for self-regulation by the industry and for
                    stabilizing local communities dependent on forest products. He was behind the enactment in 1937 of
                    sustained-yield legislation for the 
                        Oregon
                     and 
                        California
                     Revested Lands and in 1944 of the Cooperative Sustained Yield Act (Public Law 273),
                    which brought together federal bureaus and private operators. This, 
                        Mason
                     felt, was "the most feasible" scheme possible "under our
                    form of government."
            
            The entries in the diary are too brief to be good reading, but they are solid sources and testimony
                    to a busy life given over to constructive work. The reader wishes Loehr had included, in their
                    proper time sequence, the fully-fleshed articles and addresses that 
                        Mason
                     mentions in the diary and that Loehr exploits for lucid, enlightening quotations.
            Since the diary is often cryptic or elliptic, the editor has properly supplied footnotes and has
                    written introductions to the book, the chapters, and the subchapters. They are essential to the
                    book. In them Loehr fits David 
                        Mason
                     and his work into the appropriate historical contexts of the past half-century. The one
                    unsatisfying result is an unbalance between author and editor. More than half of the first hundred
                    pages are written by the editor, and the reader begins to wonder if the editor should not have
                    written a biography of 
                        Mason
                    , using bits of the diary and the papers to illustrate the forest consultant's
                    career. Several times Loehr makes a point that 
                        Mason
                    's diary makes a few pages later, arid the editor repeats himself several
                    times.
            The admirable work of the Forest Products History Foundation is furthered by this substantial and
                    germinal volume, which will be referred to by students of economic history, western history, the
                    NRA, lobbying, conservation, and progressive forest practices. The book takes a point of view that
                    contrasts with that in Pinchot's Breaking New Ground. Since much of the
                    book is laid in 
                        Oregon
                     and adjacent states, it supplements the subchapter on lumbering in Winther's
                        The Great Northwest.
            
            
                    
                  
                            Los Angeles City
                         College
                
            Richard G. Lillard
         
         
            
               Strange Empire: A Narative of the Northwest. By Joseph Kinsey Howard. Edited and
                    with a tribute to the author by Bernard DeVoto. (
                        New York
                    : William Morrow and Company, 1952, pp. xii, 601. Index, bibliography, and 11 maps by
                    Irvin Shope. $6.00.)
            The perennially interesting Riel rebellions in 
                        Canada
                     (1869, 1885) form the subject matter of this, the last published work from the busy pen
                    of the late J. K. Howard, 
                        Montana
                    's first citizen and a leading swordbearer in the cause of non-academic
                    historiography.
            
            In dealing with the career both of the Bois-Brulés (Métis) and their
                    unfortunate hero, the author has had to treat not only the race problem, but such difficult matters
                    as Canadian-American relations, Canadian and American civil politics, railroad imperialism,
                    geographic determinism, and Roman Catholic Indian policy, to mention only a few. To combine so many
                    elements into a single narrative of more than ordinary interest, as the author has done, was work
                    for no prentice hand. Howard succeeded where others might have failed because his thirty
                    years’ experience with the problem permitted him to perceive the direct relationship
                    between the race issue and these other factors.
            The Métis were the offspring of French and Indian parents (with later national
                    admixtures), who moved progressively west until they located in what became Lord SelkiGk's
                    grant in the central portion of the continent Wen known as Assiniboia, a large area roughly
                    comparable in form to the present state of 
                        Texas
                    , with the southern half penetrating 
                        Dakota
                     and 
                        Minnesota
                    . Considering the obvious importance of the region, the Métis were certain to
                    become the catspaws of rival capitalists, land speculators, and international schemers on both sides
                    of the forty-ninth parallel. When the American section was consolidated through statehood, and the
                    northern area included within the Canadian confederation (1867), the practical autonomy of the
                    native residents was destroyed, and the stage was set for high tragedy; for the
                    Métis—being neither wholly Indian nor wholly White—were incapable
                    of making themselves understood. After aggressive Canadian politicians found themselves faced with
                    armed resistance in 1869, promises of relief were made and broken, leading to further western
                    migrations and a last stand in 
                        Saskatchewan
                     in 1885. Riel, the ill-fated leader of both of these uprisings, combined in one short
                    lifetime the vii%ues and follies of the American Indian everywhere, and his death on the gallows
                    furnishes a fitting footnote to the infamous record of Indian-White relationships in the nineteenth
                    century. That he should have been of both Indian and White ancestry himself is a fine piece of
                    historical irony.
            Because of Howard's demonstrated literary skill with the so-called popular style, now much
                    in vogue among non-professional  historians, it is safe to
                    predict that this book will adorn many American and Canadian homes, as it no doubt deserves to do;
                    but whether the historical analyses contained in it measure up to the artistry of composition is a
                    more difficult matter to assess.
            We may agree that Howard's explanation for both rebellions —the high-handed
                    Canadian attempt to apply alien land tenure systems—is the proper one. Riel himself is
                    treated sympathetically, but realistically, we believe, and the diagnosis of his mental ailment as
                    paranoidal schizophrenia is as reasonable an explanation as could be made after so many years
                    (323-24). The passage in which this view is advanced parallels in an interesting way the diagnosis
                    by another historian of an earlier fanatical racial champion (Allan Nevins, The
                        Emergence of 
                            Lincoln
                        
               , II, 9-10, 93); and it was sure instinct that led American journalists, and
                    Howard as well, to call Riel "the John 
                        Brown
                     of the Half-Breeds."
            The attack on the Catholic priests surrounding Riel is very strong, but appears justified on the
                    strength of evidence advanced in its favor, in spite of the author's admitted friendship
                    for the aboriginal races. Vigorous assaults on the policy of the Confederation government, and
                    especially on Sir John Macdonald, the first prime minister of 
                        Canada
                    , likewise appear to be just.
            These virtues, and many others too numerous to detail in a short review, are unfortunately not
                    sufficient to obscure a serious historical mis judgment. In one important field Howard appears to
                    have been carried away by his literary powers. The so-called "race for the west"
                    (the northwest part of the North American continent) between 
                        Canada
                     and America is badly explained, if at all. The author quotes various Canadian and
                    American politicians (including Hamil-tom Fish) to show that an American annexationist movement was
                    in the air during the initial troubles with Riel in 1869. Howard chooses to ignore the fact that at
                    this very time Fish was laying the groundwork for the Washingtcn Treaty of 1871 and incidently
                    closing his accounts with Charles Sumner, the most dangerous Anglo-baiter of the day. Even the
                    reckless Grant refused to lift a finger to afford effective succor of the Métis. Still
                    more emphasis is placed on the free-booters of the frontier and their calculating  leaders, yet Howard has to acknowledge that the chief agent in the
                    affair was actually opposed to forceable annexation by the 
                        United States
                    . On the Canadian side of the line the authorities seem to have been much more concerned
                    with the Fenians than with American Métis sympathizers. See C. P. Stacey, "The
                    Myth of the Unguarded Frontier of 1815-1871," American Historical Review,
                    LVI (October, 1950), 1-18. As for the activities of certain jingo journalists in 
                        Minnesota
                    , and various agitators elsewhere, Howard would have done well to follow the caution of
                    Paul F. Sharp, who dealt with a similar situation arising three decades later. ("When Our
                    West Moved North," American Historical Review, LV, January, 1950,
                    286-300.) The map supplied by DeVoto, depicting a proposed aggrandizement by the 
                        United States
                     of the whole territory west of the ninetieth meridian as "Yankee
                    Dream" without an interposing article to show how many shared in it, is in the worst taste
                    (p. 79), but one must admit that it merely follows the logic of Howard's arguments.
            Indeed, the haste to find new "empires" in western studies nowadays can only be
                    explained as an aberration of the litterateurs. The Metis in 1869 were willing to settle for simple
                    autonomy within the Confederation, as Howard admits, and in 1885 they attempted nothing more than a
                    military demonstration in order to force the Canadian government to settle longstanding grievances.
                    The frequent misuse of such terms as "geopolitician" serves to emphasize the fuzzy
                    thinking on such matters. We feel constrained to add that the "artificiality" of
                    the international boundary between Lake of the Woods and the Rocky Mountains will hardly come as
                    news to many readers of this book, and Howard's continuous harping on it gives his work an
                    amateurish tinge that in fact it does not deserve.
            Howard was guilty of the same kind of errors in his first book (
                            Montana
                        , High, Wide and Handsome), although DeVoto is unacquainted with this fact; but
                    in the present case the blame is hard to fix. Strange Empire was incomplete when
                    Howard died, and DeVoto finished the work. The manuscript was in such a state that no footnotes
                    could be added, thus we cannot know if the author himself might not have toned-down his narrative. A
                    bibliography was  added by two friends, but we are not told
                    whether it was Howard's own. A curiously-worded acknowledgement, presumably by Howard, even
                    raises the question of whether he was proficient in the French language. Undoubtedly he was, but
                    proof is missing (pp. 587-88).
            On the whole, the book is quite worthwhile to those who have some knowledge of the facts and are
                    cautious in their reading, but with the general public, save for its excellent treatment of Indian
                    grievances and the moving charzcterizstion of Riel, Stranye Empire is apt to
                    inculcate false notions which may require some time to efface.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            John W. Smurr
         
         
            
               The New Dictionary of American History. By Michael Martin and Leonard Gelber (
                        New York
                    : Philosophical Library, 1952, pp. vi, 695. $10.00.)
            To write a one-volume "dictionary" of American history is obviously a forbidding
                    task, and one which appears physically quite impossible when one considers the enormity of the
                    material from which selections must be made. Yet the authors of this volume seem to have made a
                    distinctive contribution in the type of book which they have produced. They have attempted to
                    provide a ready reference source of the subject matter of American history. Significant developments
                    in economics, finance and banking, labor relations, constitutional and administrative law, social
                    welfare, literature, industry, science, religion, commerce, international relations, foreign policy,
                    education, and the arts, as well as the traditional political and military events, are covered.
            Naturally, the selection and emphasis of the items included must have been serious problems which the
                    authors faced. One might not agree entirely on what should be included and what should be omitted,
                    but this reviewer feels that this material has been handled quite adequately, recognizing the
                    physical limitations of a work of this kind. Some topics included would seem very elementary to the
                    teacher and scholar, but they may be very helpful in enabling the student and layman to pinpoint
                    quickly the object of search, whether it be a name, place, event, catch-phrase, or any other item in
                    the field.
            
            On the whole, the work is well done, except for a few minor but very obvious inaccuracies, such as
                    the statement on page 303, that "
                        Indianapolis
                     is the second largest city in the 
                        United States
                     on a navigable body of water." It is to be hoped that this is the only such
                    typographical (?) error!
            
                    
                  
                            Franklin
                         College
                
            I. George Blake
         
         
            
               American Russian Relations, 1781-1947. By William Apple-man Williams. (
                        NewYork
                     and 
                        Toronto
                    : Rinehart & Co., Inc., 1952, pp. 367. Bibliography and index.
                    $3.75.)
            The classic image of diplomatic relations likens them to a game of chess. Any serious historical
                    analysis of such relations, then, like any analysis of a great game of chess, must examine on both
                    sides every factor or piece and every move or development of force. Another, equally basic
                    consideration in writing a diplomatic history is that objectivity is not attained by
                    "proving" the government of one's own country to be almost always in the
                    wrong and the ccrrrespondent government almost always in the right. In terms of both these
                    considerations, and despite the great labor in the archives and the true contributions that it
                    makes, Williams’ American Russian Relations falls short of being an
                    adequate book.
            Concentrating on the period between 1900 and 1940, which takes up four-fifths of the volume, Williams
                    develops turbidly and tendentiously two key themes. The major one is that hostility to Russia and
                    the 
                        Soviet Union
                     governed American policy virtually throughout that period—as
                    after— and that this hostility rose mainly from the imperialist aims of financiers and
                    industrialists and of both Roosevelts as of Woodrow Wilson. The lesser and directly related theme is
                    that American rivalry with Russia over Manchuria and its railways was responsible for the rise of a 
                        Japan
                     menacing both powers. The conclusion meant to be drawn from this is that American
                    collaboration and understanding with Russia would have served world peace.
            There is, of course, something to be said for the overall thesis, provided that we ignore the fact
                    that it takes two to make a marriage. History, least of all diplomatic history, is hardly to be
                    presented in such simple terms. Although  the author appears to
                    have support for his theories, to give them substance he is pressed at times to utilize basically
                    unproved statements. We can deal with only three.
            He argues, first (p. 52), that between 1905 and 1912 Russia sought economic and political
                    understanding with the 
                        United States
                     in order to oppose 
                        Tokyo
                    , and that when she failed she "by necessity sought some measure of safety
                    through a series of alliances with 
                        Japan
                    ." Apart from the fact that this is not the way the Russian and other
                    historians see it, the statement ignores obvious Russian and Japanese interests in joining secretly
                    and otherwise to oppose 
                        Washington
                    , and it disregards Russian and French anxiety for security in the East as crisis
                    mounted upon crisis in Europe.
            Again, American intervention in the Russian Civil Wars of 1918-20 becomes for Williams’
                    theses a "natural." That anti-Bolshevism and the desire to salvage investments
                    influenced this policy is of course not to be denied. However, in treating the subject Williams not
                    only disregards the all-important context of military operations against a 
                        Germany
                     reaching to new heights of power, but in two respects serves scholarship badly. On one
                    hand he makes his story of intervention turn on the Siberian theater, where he says the action
                    "was an attempt to restrict 
                        Japan
                     within the limits imposed by the decision to oppose the Soviets") p. 129,
                    etc.). On the other hand, he avoids almost completely the problem of the North Russian theater. The
                    first approach, without justification in adequate proof, consciously flies in the face of the
                    conclusions of other serious researchers. And it blandly ignores the fact that the Soviet government
                    dropped its claims for damages, rising out of Siberian intervention, when Litvinov was shown
                    documents indicating that the real purpose of intervention was to check the Japanese. The other
                    approaches makes it possible to avoid both the proniinent anti-
                        German
                     factors involved and a Soviet approval of earlier activities.
            The third example of Williams’ use of unproved statements is the most clear-cut. In his
                    version, American "isolationism" of the nineteen-twenties and -thirties was really
                    an effort "to exercise dominant power within a broad framework of freedom without
                    responsibility" and a policy characterized by "unilateral intervention to preserve
                    or extend  the overseas power of the 
                        United States
                    " (pp. 191, 192). The term "isolationism," here, certainly
                    needs qualification and re-definition. The two statements hardly represent the answer.
            A most serious weakness, in American Russian Relations, is the author's
                    attempt to; present Othello without Iago. He presents American conduct as governed
                    by a weltuiwchauung inspired originally by Brooks Adams’ The Law of Civilization and Decay and executed by imperially ambitious presidents and
                    financiers. But the Soviet weltan-chuuung, the Marxist-Leninist-Stalinist concept
                    of the dictatorship of the proletariat and world revolution, is treated in the most fleeting and
                    negativistic terms. But the indications are that Williams is well informed of these theories.
                    Indicative is his statement (p. 159) that the "essential tragedy of Wilson's
                    failure lies in the fact that he realized and acknowledged that the Soviets represented a desperate
                    attempt on the part of the dispossessed to share the bounty of industrial civilization. More, he
                    knew they must be given access to that share if further resort to violence was to be forestalled.
                    Yet this keen insight was first dimmed then ultimately beclouded by antagonism to the Soviets and
                    the conscious desire to expand American influence: abroad." Also apart irom occasional
                    sections Williams touches little on materials in Russian—a grievous shortcoming in a
                    diplomatic history.
            One must state that the work is in considerable part based on archival materials that have not been
                    exploited sufficiently before and therefore contains much new information. The overall role of
                    Raymond Robins in respect to American policy is shown to be more significant and meaningful than had
                    been realized (although the author seems to err on the side of exaggeration). And the story of
                    American economic relations with the 
                        Soviet Union
                     in the nineteen-twenties, which has needed telling, is at last available.
            As a last point, this is less a book for the college student than for the advanced student and
                    specialist. However, it is also recommended reading for those who believe that Franklin D.
                    Roosevelt's and Harry Truman's foreign policies were Communist-inspired and that
                    George F. Kennan's "containment" 
                    policy is negativisitic and therefore represents appeasement. Williams conveniently cites (p. 258) a
                    key passage frcm Rennan's famous essay: "The 
                        United States
                     has it in its power… to promote tendencies which must continually find their
                    outlet in either the breakup or the gradual mellowing of Soviet power."
            
                    
                  
                            Kent
                         State University
                
            Alfred A. Skerpan
         
         
            
               The Early Career of Lord Rockingham 1780-1765. By G.H. Guttridge. University of 
                        California
                    
                    Publications in History, Volume 44. (
                        Berkeley
                     and Los Agneles: University of 
                        California
                     Press, 1952, pp. viii, 54. Index. $.75.)
            Charles Watson-Wentworth, 2nd Marquis of Rockingham (1730-82) is best known for his "short
                    ministry" of 1765-66 which repealed the Stamp Act and for his patronage of Edmund Burke. In
                    a sense G. H. Guttridge's study is unique for he has portrayed the noble lord without
                    standard or standard-bearer. The monograph owes its existence to the opening of the Wentworth
                    Woodhouse muniments and materials untouched by modern scholars. The result is a pleasing though
                    pallid picture of the most typical of great Whig lords.
            Nurtured in the tradition of the Grand Tour (which is most satisfactorily described) and heir to vast
                    estates in Yorkshire, Rochingham came into his politics as he inherited his titles. County
                    electioneering proved the young lord's willingness to exercise his influence and ability,
                    and he was welcomed at Westminister by 
                        Newcastle
                     as the reign of George III threatened the Whig supremacy. Through those turbulent early
                    years Rockingham followed his elders "without sacrificing his independence. His influence
                    was local, not national." As a loyal Whig he resigned his offices in 1762, disowning any
                    personal animus and pleading principle. In opposition Rockingham shared the embarrassments of 
                        Newcastle
                     who was constitutionally opposed to the role he was forced to play, and
                    "seemed to acquiesce" in the plans of those who demanded action. Serving as
                    intermediary between the old Whigs and Pitt in 1763-64, he learned the difficulties of co-operation
                    with the Great Commoner. By  the spring of 1765 Rockingham was
                    beginning to replace 
                        Newcastle
                     as the effective head of their faction. In Julv he became first lord of the Treasury
                    with "much concern and unwillingness," and leader of a ministry that Pitt scorned
                    and the Duke of 
                        Cumberland
                     had created.
            In surveying the early career of Lord Rockingham, Gutt-ridge concludes that "Rockingham was
                    undoubtedly the embodiment of territorial wealth and influence, But for that, his life would
                    probably have been gassed in obscurity." His political principle was aristocratic control
                    based upon connection. "In such a career a clear-cut program was not to be expected at this
                    time."
            This brief essay does not force any revision of opinion concerning Lord Rockingham. Neither,
                    unfortunately, does it lend much depth to its passive hero who remains primarily one of 
                        Newcastle
                    's correspondents. Freer quotation from the Wentworth Woodhouse manuscripts
                    might have livened the scene, and fuller treatment of Yorkshire politics would have been most
                    welcome. Guttridge has succeeded in illustrating the "way in which social
                    forces… were transformed into political power," but has shed little light upon
                    his own question of "whether Burke led, or merely followed, the Whig aristocracy."
                    His work marks the first step, nonetheless, toward solving that problem and utilizing new manuscript
                    sources.
            
                    
                  
                            Alabama
                         Polytechnic Institute
                
            Robert R. Rea
         
         
            
               Women Camp Followers of the American Revolution. By Walter Hart Blumenthal. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : George S. Mac-Manus Company, 1952, pp. 104. Bibliography. $3.75.)
            Walter Hart Blumenthal has presented an interesting monograph of relatively minor significance which
                    reminds one that the War for Independence certainly was not total war as we know it in the twentieth
                    century. A variety of primary sources has been consulted by Blumenthal to elucidate the effects of
                    the presence of women with the British and American armies. An established institution in eighteenth
                    century armies, the women encumbered as well as aided the Revolutionary armies. This is borne out
                         by both American and British orders concerning the conduct
                    of "irregular women" and the provisioning of women and children. 
                        Washington
                     complained of having to give provisions to the! unattached women to prevent men from
                    deserting. Although the author discusses the heroism of several individuals, he concludes that the
                    women refugees fleeing the British made the chief contribution of their sex by mending, cooking, and
                    washing for the soldiers.
            A 1777 report of the British conmissary general helps Blumenthal to arrive at an approximate ratio of
                    one woman to eight men among the British in that year; by 1781 it had increased to one to four and a
                    half. There were fewer women among the mercenaries, but by the time (June, 1781) the Convention
                    Germans journeyed north to 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ., that group had acquired women enough to have a ratio of one to six. The author does
                    not attempt to give such a ratio for the American forces. 
                        Washington
                     did object to efforts to limit women's rations to a fifteenth of the issues
                    (women customarily received half-rations).
            Although the author discusses the disgraceful picture presented by the women with the army when the
                    Americans marched into 
                        Philadelphia
                     and other unflattering incidents, one wonders whether his patriotism interfered with
                    his research at times. Mistresses of General Howe and Burgoyne receive attention. Did no American
                    generals misbehave? The bravery of certain American women is cited. Even though they were
                    not on native soil, did not some English women perform noble acts? A good many of the
                    British orders cited are concerned with the women's part in illegal liquor traffic. 
                        Washington
                    's orders dealing with women were primarily attempts to have them march with
                    the baggage rather than ride the wagons. Of course, one reason there wasn't the
                    "dissolute abandon" among the Americans is that they were not an overseas army.
            One sometimes thinks that this book could have been better organized; most of the facts seem to be of
                    about equal importance. In spite of their interest and brevity, digressions as far afield as the
                    Mexican War disrupted the chain of thought of this reader.
            
                    
                  
                            South Bend
                        , Indiana
                
            Charlotte Kupferer Ford
         
         
         
            
               The Lost Discovery. By Frederick J. Pohl. (
                        New York
                    : W. W. Norton & Company, Inc., 1952, pp. 346. Index, appendices, bibliography,
                    illustrations, and maps. Illustrations and maps by J. Warren Sheppard. $3.75.)
            The subtitle of this fascinating book better describes it: "Uncovering the Track of the
                    Vikings in America." The book is not only a history, but mixes with its history of
                    discovery the discovery of history. It describes the author's field work as well as the
                    history thus uncovered.
            The book is not really a unit, but is a series of connected essays on early voyages to America. After
                    introductory chapters on the settlement of 
                        Greenland
                    , the larger part of the book is devoted to the author's discoveries concerning
                    the Norse activity around Vinland. Then follow individual chapters on the nature of the 
                        Newport
                     tower (Longfellow guessed right), the last days of the 
                        Greenland
                     settlements, and the wintering of Henry Sinclair, Prince of Orkney, in 
                        Nova Scotia
                     in 1398. A final chapter discusses 
                        Columbus
                     in the light of the fact that he was far from being the discoverer of America (in the
                    1490's the Pope in 
                        Rome
                     wrote letters about the parishes in 
                        Greenland
                    ). This chapter is a minor masterpiece, trying to view 
                        Columbus
                     in the proper historical perspective. This means both decreasing his stature and
                    increasing it. Set aside is the schoolbook version of a boob sailing blindly over the edge of the
                    world. In its place is an accomplished navigator who knew pretty well where he was going, how to get
                    there, and, even more important, how to get back.
            The lesson of this book is that historians are not necessarily stopped when the documentary sources
                    run dry. Scholars have long debated the actual whereabouts of Lief's shelters in Vinland.
                    The author claims to have settled the dispute. He noted that Norsemen were able to use the
                    descriptions embodied in the sagas to arrive at the same spot as Lief. He concluded that the sagas
                    were sailors’ accounts related by sailors to an audience of sailors, and so should have
                    some meaning to sailors. Fellow members of the Ship Lore and Model Club of 
                        Brooklyn
                     helped him give concrete meaning to seemingly vague statements, such as the distance of
                    "a day's sail," or that "It proved a beautiful day"
                    after a, storm signaled a radical change in wind direction. Friends  and the author himself did actual sailing to ascertain if descriptions
                    fit reality. Maps were studied. Finding that the southern coast of Cape Cod fit the geography of the
                    sagas, the author explored that coast and found necessary features not shown on the maps. Further
                    prowling turned up rocks with definite marks, possible mooring holes, which could have been left by
                    the Vikings and are otherwise unexplained. Similarly, in looking into the mystery of the 
                        Newport
                     tower the author both used the libraries, with good results, and also actually measured
                    the tower to ascertain what unit of measurement its builders had used (you guessed it—an
                    old Norse measurement).
            Many of the conclusions are not wholly convincing. However, Pohl has been over the ground. Until
                    those who doubt also sail, and also explore, there is little basis for criticisms.
            Apart from arousing the reader's interest in the fairly constant intercourse between America
                    and Europe during the Middle Ages, a not overwritten field, this book might well cause students of
                    local history to reconsider their activities. How many who have enjoyed reading of some event in
                    their locality have ever gotten out and tried to find, on the basis of landscape and common sense or
                    special knowledge, just where this happened? Perhaps it was in his backyard, and perhaps
                    there are indications there for those who know how to look for them. Nobody on Cape Cod noticed
                    those mooring holes, and yet there is a housing project in the area.
            
               
                        Washington
                    , D. C.
            William K. Bachelder
         
         
         
            A New Edition by Four Eminent Hoosiers
            As a memorial to Indiana's distinguished historian, Logan Esarey, his essays on pioneer life
                    were published in a limited edition in 1943. A second edition appeared in 1947. Now, four prominent
                    Indianans unite to produce a new fine edition of The Indiana Home. The essays of
                    Esarey, in which he embodied his deep-seated love of his native state as well as his knowledge of
                    its history, are the heart of the volume; the seven full-page drawings of 
                        Franklin
                     Booth picture the conditions in which the Hoosier home existed; the design of the book
                    and the drawings of pioneer tools, implements, and furnishings contributed by the experienced
                    artist-craftsman make it a truly beautiful book. Pertinent facts about Esarey, Booth, and Rogers are
                    given to the reader in the introduction. The work is presented by the Indiana University Press in an
                    edition limited to 1550 numbered copies at fifteen dollars.
         
         
            After the June issue Elfrieda Lang's name as Assistant Editor will disappear from the Magazine's masthead. She is leaving the hazards and joys of editorial
                    work for the hieroglyphics of manuscripts. On July 1, Miss Lang will become Assistant Curator of
                    Manuscripts at the Indiana University Library.
         
         
         
            Annual Seminars on American Culture
            The Sixth Annual Seminars on American Culture will be held in Cooperstown, 
                        New York
                    , under the auspices of the 
                        New York State
                     Historical Association, July 5-11, 1953.
            The Seminars will offer to local historians, collectors, writers, teachers, librarians, museum
                    personnel, folklorists, and enthusiasts for Americana generally an opportunity to study for a week
                    with others who share their interests and with distinguished specialists in the area of their
                    enthusiasm.
            Among the courses to be offered this year are: "Patterns of American Folk History,"
                    of which Carl Carmer is chairman; "Folklore of the Newer Americans." Professors
                    Thelma G. James of 
                        Wayne
                     University and Harold W. Thompson of Cornell, co-chairmen; "Using Local
                    History," which will be a workshop for Local Historians under the leadership of Albert B.
                    Corey, State Historian; "Reading the Landscape," a course designed for people who
                    would like to understand better what they see when they are riding through the American countryside,
                    which will be led by Dean Eric H. Faigle and Professor Robert J. Rayback of 
                        Syracuse
                     University. There will be a laboratory course, "The American Frugal
                    Housewife." to be held in the early 19th century farmhouse at The Farmers’
                    Museum where students, under the direction of 
                        Virginia
                     Parslow of The Farmers’ Museum Staff, will participate in baking bread in
                    the brick oven, the preparation of food on the hearth, churning and cheese making, also soap making
                    and candle dipping, and in a study of the textiles in the farmhouse. "Early American
                    Decoration," will be a practical course in how to stencil walls, furniture and tin, and how
                    to paint chairs, and other early decorative techniques, to be led by Mrs. Emily J. Heath, President
                    of the Esther Stevens Brazer Guild. There will be a course designed for museum people and teachers,
                    "The School and the Museum," under the leadership of Carl E. Guthe, Director of
                    the 
                        New York State
                     Museum, the purpose of which will be to help teachers and museum workers to prepare
                    students for the utilization of museum resources
            Furthur information about the Seminars may be obtained by writing to Louis C. Jones, Director, 
                        New York State
                     Historical Association, Cooperstown, 
                        New York
                    .
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Shelburn[e] Baptist Church The Constituent Membership Record, May 7, 1870
            Chloe Siner Morgan*
            
            Little Flock Baptist Church, the first Baptist church in 
                        Sullivan County
                    , was constituted in June, 1821. Not quite fifty years later, another Baptist church was
                    established a mile distant; and in the course of the following three score years the later church
                    absorbed the earlier. Little Flock Meeting House was built on the prairie and near the village named
                    for the family of William Curry, who is reputed to have built the first cabin on Currys 
                        Prairie
                     and started the village of Currysville, within the year that Indiana became a state and
                    Sullivan a county. The wife OP William Curry was said to be Clemsy Siner, one of the older daughters
                    of Benjamin and Mary—"Polly" (Maladie or Mal-lady) Siner—,
                    whose names appear on the Little Flock Record August 7, 1823—July 8, 1826. All efforts to
                    trace the descendants of Clemsy have so far failed, though certain Currys living in 
                        Vigo County
                     in later years are listed by historians of that county as descendants of the Curry from
                    whom Currys 
                        Prairie
                     took its name. However that mag have been, not a single Curry name appears on the
                    Little Flock membership list.
            William in 1825 and 1826 bought land in Honey Creek Township, and evidently preceded his
                    father-in-law into 
                        Vigo County
                    . When Benjamin Siner died on his newly acquired farm in Pierson Township, near the site
                    of Union Church, in September, 1826, Polly, as administratrix, presented an inventory of their
                    personal effects and held a sale. Among the purchasers at this sale were William Curry and two 
                  
                     * The author of this sketch, Chloe Siner Morgan, is the
                            wife of the late Professor William Thomas Morgan of Indiana University History Department.
                            Mrs. Morgan's teaching experience has included an assistant professorship in the
                            English departments of Indiana State Normal School, 
                                Iowa
                             State Teachers College, and a lectureship in the Ecole Normale des
                            Institutrices, Blois, 
                                France
                            . She has taught in Indiana University in recent years, and is now Faculty
                            Research Fellow there in English History and Literature.
               
                     other sons-in-law (Eli St, Clair and John Hodges), also two of
                    the older Siner sonns, James and Nelson. Nelson, who had married one of the numerous Shelburne
                    family from 
                        Virginia
                    , eventually returned to Currysville, where he established a stave factory and store,
                    and became an early postmaster of 
                        Shelburn
                    .
            Nelson siner's wilfe was Desdemona Shelburne, daughter of John Shelburne and Charlotte Wills
                    (also given Charlotte Elizabeth Willis) of 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    . Among the brothers of "dessie" who came to 
                        Sullivan County
                    , was a bachelor. Paschal, who in his later years buried his gold on one of his farms,
                    then lost his eyesight and thereafter only the pigs were able to find it. But before this
                    enterprising man had come to rest in Little Flock Cemetry, under the marble stone bearing the
                    legend: "Paschal Shelburne, died January 29, 1872, aged 79 years, 8 months, and 28 days," he had
                    founded a town bearing his name---wedged rigght in between the village of Currysville and Little
                    Flock Church---; and approximately three years before his death he had assisted in constiuting a
                    church, Shelburne Baptist Church, within the town which he had founded. Some ten or fifteen years
                    after Little Flock Church had celebrated its centannial, the members tore down their old Meeting
                    House rather than rebuild it, and transferred their membership to Paschal Shelburne's
                    Church within his town.
            To those of us who are fifth generation descendans of the founders of Little Flock and third and
                    fourth generation from the founders of Shelburne Church, looking back from the disinterested,
                    historical perspective, the mystery of the existence of two missionary Baptist churches within a
                    mile of each other has ever been inexplicable. Snce a third successive building was under discussion
                    in the spring of 1870, when the split occurred, thiswas likely the outward cause of the division.
                    However, since an examination of the constituent members of the later church reveals that only the
                    Jones’, Taylors, Harbolts, Whites and Rileys are unrelated by descent or by
                    “in-law” to the Shelburne, Siner, Hill, and Anderson families one wondres if
                    this newer chruch were not the “dream-child” of this aged man without
                    descendats but with so great a family of heirs.
            The following is the record of the withdrawal and the the founding:—
            
            
               
                        Shelburn
                    , May 7, 1870.
            According to previous appointment the Brethren and Sisters whose names follow met, being previously
                    dhmissed from Little Flock Baptist Church, and after Singing Prayer was offered by Rev. A. J. Riley:
                    lst, then organized by appointing Brother R[ichmond] B. Shelburn Moderator and J[ames] P[aschal]
                    Siner Clerk.
            2nd. then the following names were read for membership in this church.
            By letter:
            
               
                  John C. Taylor,
               
                  Hardy Hill [m. 1st Mary Shelburne, sister of Paschal and founded the 
                            Sullivan County Hill
                         family.]
               
                  Ally [Siner] Hodges Hill [daughter of Benjamin and Polly
                        Siner m. 1st John Hodges; 2nd Hardy Hill, above.]
               
                  J[ames] P[aschal] Siner [son of Nelson and Desdemona. See sketch in T. J.
                        Wolfe, Historg of 
                                Sullivan County
                            
                  , 11, 103-41.
               
                  Matte [Hodges] Siner [granddaughter of John and Ally (Siner) Hodges, and
                        wife of J. P. Siner, above.]
               
                  E[lijah] W. Shelburne [great nephew of John Shelburne] married granddaughter
                        of John Shelburne, 
                            Arkansas
                        , daughter of 
                            Spencer
                        .]
               
                  
                            
                                Arkansas
                            
                            
                                Shelburn
                            
                         [wife of E. W., above, and sister of Tyrrene Florence Shelburne, first wife of Dr. Joseph
                        Buskirk (originally Van Buskirk).]
               
                  B[enjamin] F[ranklin] Siner [son of Nelson and Desdemona.]
               
                  Louise [Patton] Siner [daughter of Wm. Patton, and wife of B. F. Siner,
                        above.]
               
                  A. J. Riley [minister of Little Flock 1867-1869.1
               
                  Annie Riley [wife of above.]
               
                  Luella Cuppy [possibly the second wife of Dr. Joseph Buskirk, mentioned
                        above. Dr. Buskirk was an early physican and druggist of 
                            Shelburn
                        . By his first wife, Tyrrene Shelburne, he had several children, one of
                        whom—Verne, Berne, or "Hibernia"—followed his father as
                        owner of the drug and general store. He later went to 
                            Colorado
                        , became a doctor and banker, and is reputed to have been the originator of the
                        cantaloupe.]
               
                        D. C. Taylor
                    
               
               
                  R[ichrnond] B. Shelburn [son of John and Elizabeth (Bush) Shelburne. He and
                        Malvina were the only children of Elizabeth Bush.]
               
                  Cindarilla [Pound] 
                                Shelburn
                            
                   [sister of Elizabeth (Pound) Siner, below, and wife of 
                            Richmond
                         B., above.]
               
                  S[helbury] D[ale] Siner [son of Nelson and Desdemona. Cared for Paschal
                        Shelburne in his later years.]
               
                  Sarah [McClannahan] Siner [sister of Joseph McClannahan. Wife of S. D.
                        Siner, above.]
               
                  P[aschal] S[helburne] Hill [son of Hardy and Mary (Shelburne) Hill.]
               
                  Letticia M. [Guppy] Hill [wife of Paschal, above.]
               
                  Paschal 
                                Shelburn
                            
                   [son of John and Charlotte (Wills) Shelburne, and founder of the town of 
                            Shelburn
                        .]
               
                  
                     
                                Spencer
                             S[helburne] Siner [son of Nelson and Desdemona, and grandfather of the
                        author of this sketch.]
               
                  Elizabeth [Pound] Siner [wife of 
                            Spencer
                         S., above. 
                     She was the granddaughter of Robert
                                Anderson, Sr., and his wife, Sarah (Froment) Anderson, whose names appear as two of the
                                eleven constituent members of Little Flock Church (1821). Her mother, Elizabeth
                                Anderson, in 1818 married William Pound, son of Thomas and Sarah (Kester) Pound, all
                                constituent members of Second 
                                    Prairie
                                 Creek Church (1828), and earlier of First 
                                    Prairie
                                 Creek Church constituted 1818— the first in 
                                    Vigo County
                                . Both Thomas and William were deacons and were constant participants in the
                                Baptist activities of Vigo and Sullivan counties. Both Thomas Pound (b. July 28, 1767;
                                d. Feb. 2, 1848) and his wife, Sarah Kester (b. June 24, 1767; d. Feb. 2, 1848) were
                                descendants of "Old Main Line" families.
                            Thomas Pound of English descent, was the son of John and Sarah (Martin) Pound, whose
                                ancestors were among the first settlers of Piscataway, 
                                    New Jersey
                                . Sarah Kester was a daughter of William Kester of Germantown, Pennsylvania,
                                and Kingwood, 
                                    New Jersey
                                , by his secoad wife, Elizabeth Lacock, who had previously married a Thomas
                                Ferguson and founded a numerous Ferguson family, some of whom later settled in Indiana.
                                The progenitors of William Kester were among the first settlers of Germantown,
                                Pennsylvania. They were of Dutch and Palatine 
                                    German
                                 extraction, and their language was Holland Dutch. See, William  Isaac Hull, William Penn and the Dutch 
                                        Quaker
                                     Migration to 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                    
                        , 229-35. Three of the children of John and Sarah (Martin) Pound
                                married three of the children of William and Elizabeth (Lacock Ferguson) Kester; and in
                                their old, widowed age, Sarah (Martin) Pound, by that time the Widow Stiglar, married
                                William Kester. Both at the time were living with their children in 
                                    Kentucky
                                , in the Elk Creek region, where certain of their descendants have remained
                                to this day.
                            The founder of the Pound family in America came from 
                                    England
                                 to 
                                    New York
                                 or Long Island, and thence to Piscataway, 
                                    New Jersey
                                . He purchased land in both Piscataway, and in Woodbridge, but died in the
                                former village, February 21, 1690. John ZI, son of John Pound I and
                                his wife Winifred—, died in Piscataway, Middlesex County, 
                                    New Jersey
                                , 1752. Thomas Pound, son of John Pound I1 and his wife
                                Esther—, was born July 18, 1708, and died between May and August 26, 1752, in
                                Piscataway. This Thomas Pound had a brother (Elijah, born July 18, 1712), who became the
                                ancestor of Dean Roscoe Pound of 
                                    Harvard
                                , and Professor Louise Pound of the University of 
                                    Nebraska
                                . Another brother was Joseph (born June 25, 1715.) See, Compendium of American Genealogy. John Pound 111, son of Thomas Pound I,
                                above, and his wife, Audrey——, was born at Piscataway, 
                                    New Jersey
                                , ca. 1735; and died ca. 1790. This John
                                Pound first married Rhoda Cox, and had a son Hezekiah, who became a Revolutionary
                                Soldier, and left descendants who later came to Indiana. John Pound I11 married, second,
                                the Sarah Martin, previously mentioned, and had six more children, descendants of all of
                                whom came to Indiana. These were the Pound great grandparents of Elizabeth (Pound) Siner
                                of this sketch. This John Pound on July 12, 1770, sold the inherited home plantation in
                                Piscataway, Middlesex County, and probably settled for a time in the adjoining county of 
                                    Somerset
                                ; for it was from there that he served during the American Revolution. (John
                                Pound's service record is as follows: "Official Records of 
                                    New Jersey
                                : Adjutant General-Revolutionary War Records. Ref. Militia, 2nd year, p.
                                204. Name: John Pound. Residence: County of 
                                    Somerset
                                , N. J. Received Certificate no. 1083, Voucher 76 for depreciation of his
                                Continental pay in Somerset  Co. Militia, dated May
                                10, 1784, signed by Wm. Verbryck. Amt.: 0:5:4. 2nd yrs. interest, 0:O:3.")
                                Since conditions in 
                                    New Jersey
                                 were not so happy after the Revolution as they had been previously, and
                                because new promises were luring the Eastern pioneers to the South and West, John and
                                Sarah (Martin) Pound moved with their children to the vicinity of Cumberland, Maryland;
                                and in that region John died, and Sarah either there or in 
                                    Kentucky
                                , married a Stiglar, and later, as we have noted, William Kester,
                                father-in-law to three of hers and John Pound's children. She and her third
                                husband died in 
                                    Kentucky
                                .
                            The ancestry of Sarah Kester, daughter of William and Elizabeth (Lacock Ferguson) Kester
                                is as follows: Paulus Kester and his wife, Geertruid (Streyper)—whose mother
                                was an Isaacs Op den Graaf, which made Geertruid a cousin of Jan and Dirk Op den Graaf,
                                friends of William Penn—followed Geertruid's brother, William
                                Streyper, to 
                                    Germantown
                                 as first settlers there. With them came their three sons. The second of the
                                three was a Burgess of 
                                    Germantown
                                 in 1707, and reputedly a surveyor for William Penn, from whom he received a
                                large grant of land—lout to his heirs through the limitations law. This son,
                                Johannes, married in 1692, Elizabeth Cassell, a daughter of Johannes Cassell, a
                                Mennonite poet who came to 
                                    Germantown
                                 in 1686.
                            A son of this couple, Paul (b. ca. 1700), married Ruth Kitchen,
                                November 17, 1730 (Records 
                                    Philadelphia
                                 First Presbyterian Church). Up to that time, the Kester family had been
                                Quakers. Since Ruth and Paul died when their children were "quite
                                young" the younger children, Rebecca, John, and possibly Samuel, went to
                                Kingwood, 
                                    New Jersey
                                , to live with their uncle Hermanus. Later, William, the eldest, went there
                                and on November 14, 1756, married his first cousin, Elizabeth Kester, for which they
                                were doubtless expelled from the Kingwood Monthly Meeting. By this marriage, William had
                                one son, Paul, who was a Revolutionary soldier. Elizabeth died, and about 1762, William
                                married Elizabeth Lacock Ferguson, as previously mentioned. They had four children, one
                                of whom was Sarah, who married Thomas Pound in 1786 in 
                                    Maryland
                                . And so the Pound and Kester families, ancesters of Elizabeth (Pound)
                                Siner, were united, and one of the sons of Thomas and Sarah  (Kester) Pound—William (b. June, 1790; d. July,
                                1870) — married the previously mentioned Elizabeth Anderson in 1818, and they
                                became the parents of Elizabeth Pound (b. June 2, 1832; d. August 8, 1896). Elizabeth on
                                December 25, 1849 (
                                    Vigo County
                                 Marriage License Records 181%— 1850), married 
                                    Spencer
                                 Shelburne Siner, nephew of the founder of Shelburne town and Shelburne
                                Baptist Church.
                            On October 10, 1886, the elder son of Elizabeth and Spencer—John Hardy Siner
                                (b. June 28, 1857; d. January 16, 1939) married Emma Estella McGarvey (b. October 27,
                                1866), only child of Ezekiel McGarvey by his third wife, Mary Ann Raines (b. February
                                14, 1826, at 
                                    Frankfort
                                , Ky.; married April 12, 1865; d. March 13, 1905), daughter of Margaret
                                (Dampster) Raines and William Pendleton Raines, a soldier of the War of 1812. The author
                                of this sketch is the only child of John Hardy and Emma Estella (McGamey) Siner.
                            Since publishing the article: "Minute Book for the Christian Church on Busseron
                                Creek: Record of the Christian Church at Palmers 
                           Prairie, Sullivan
                                County
                        , Indiana, 18271 1831?," Indiana Magazine of History, March, 1951, in which appears a brief sketch of
                                the Raines and McGarvey families, three importants facts have come to light. James H.
                                McGarvey, former 
                                    Sullivan County
                                 Auditor, grandson of Ezekiel McGarvey and his second wife, Martha Lou
                                Rainey (Borders McKinley), has pointed out that Andrew, father of
                                Ezekiel McGarvey, was a former owner of the land on which 
                                    Sullivan County
                                 Courthouse now stands. Continued search for Andrew's birth and
                                death dates have been without result; but: since his name does not appear on the 1830
                                census, he must have died before that date. Further, a recent search through the Indiana
                                Census Reports reveals that Ezekiel McGarvey was born in 
                                    Kentucky
                                , and not id 
                                    Ireland
                                , as family tradition dictated. Also, the minutes of Little Flock Church
                                show proof that Busseron Church, later named Palmers 
                                    Prairie
                                , was in existence under the former name in 1828, and in friendly
                                relationship with the Baptist churches of Vigo and Sullivan counties. This practically
                                settles the date puzzle of the church. It was probably founded as The
                                    Christian Church on Busseron Creek in 1827, and changed to The
                                    Christian Church of Palmers 
                                        Prairie
                                    
                         in 1831, in honor of Henry D. 
                                Palmer, member of the House of Representatives of Indiana 1822-1823, and 1823-1824, and
                                reputedly the firs’ minister of the church in question. Palmer appears in the
                                1830 cenus but not in a later cenus of 
                                    Sullivan County
                                . (See article by Ray Wyman, on Henry Palmer, the 
                                    Prairie
                                , and the Church, Sullivan Union, October 21, 1937.)
                            The Little Flock Church minutes, referred to, are of August 8, 1828, and are concerned
                                with the settling of a difficulty arising from the dissatisfaction of and with.
                                constituent member. "The brethren appointed to bear letters to sister churches,
                                requesting helpers reported they had discharged that duty and the following brethren
                                appeared from 
                                    Prairie
                                 Creek: Ebenezer Paddock, Thomas Pounds, Joseph Kester, William Pounds; from
                                Fairbanks: James Drake, Joseph Ransford, Jr.; from Union: Joseph Liston, John Hodges,
                                Abijah Thomas, Zachariah McClure; from Busseron: Brothers West and Simmons.…
                                Therefore that brother——may have an opportunity to clear himself
                                if the reports are unfounded.… The Church says she will send for helps to
                                Union, Prairy Creek, Fairbanks and Busseron." This does not indicate that
                                Busseron was a Baptist church. At the time and until 1830, when Alexander 
                                    Campbell
                                 was expelled from the Baptist Association, friendliness and co-operation
                                existed between the two denominations. The 
                                    Vincennes
                                
                                Western Sun of September 26, 1830, carried the news that, "A
                                Baptist Association held at 
                                    Frankfort
                                , Ky. have denounced the Reverend Alexander 
                                    Campbell
                                 [Editor of the Christian Baptist] as a heretic, and
                                excluded from communion all who hold his principles." Of the Anderson
                            ancestors of Elizabeth (Pound) Siner, the author knows little except that they were a 
                                Kentucky
                             family, and some of them were Baptist preachers. J. Estelle Stuart King, Early Abstracts of Wills and Inventories (1933), includes one abstract
                            that is very probably that of the ancestor of the Currys 
                                Prairie
                             Anderson family: "Nelson County, Book A. 1784-1807, p. 181: Anderson,
                            John, Nov. 7, 1806… 1807. John McGee to settle estate. Sons: John, Robert, James,
                            Samuel, Archibald, David. Widow not named. Daughters: Mary, Jean,
                        Elizabeth."]
               
               
                  Mary L[ucinda] Siner [eldest child of Elizabeth (Pound) Siner and Spencer
                        Shelburne Siner, above; married James C. Redmond of 
                            Kansas
                        , 
                            Illinois
                        .]
               
               
                  John Riggs [probably the father of William Riggs who married Allie Hill,
                        daughter of Paschal and Letticia Hill, above.]
               
                  Johanna Riggs [wife? of John, above.]
               
                  John H. Bolinger [brother of the late Charles Bolinger.]
               
                  Elizabeth [Siner] Bolinger, [wife of John H. Bolinger, above, and daughter
                        of S. D. Siner and Sarah (McClannahan) Siner, above.]
               
                        Cordelia Taylor
                    
               
                        Savanah Harbolt
                    
               
                        Susa A. Cuppy
                    
               
                  Phoebe (Lovelace) Hodges [widow of Harden Hodges, and mother of Matte
                        (Hodges) Siner, above, and of Kate Hodges, wife of 
                            Adrian
                         Beecher, a 
                            Terre Haute
                         lawyer. Kate and Adrian's son Samuel, a former 
                            Terre Haute
                         mayor, practices law in 
                            Terre Haute
                         with his son, Samuel, Jr., as partner. Phoebe Hodges later married a Whitney.]
               
                  Mary A [lice] Siner [daughter of S. D. and Sarah Siner, above.]
               
                  Zerelda [Anderson] McClannahan [wife of Joseph McClannahan, and daughter of
                        John and Elizabeth (Shelburne) Anderson. Elizabeth was a daughter of John and Charlotte (Wills)
                        Shelburne. John Anderson was a son of Robert Anderson, Sr. and Sarah of the Little Flock
                        constituent members, or a brother. The dates on the Anderson tombstones in Little Flock Cemetery
                        would indicate the former relationship. They read: "Robert Anderson, d. July 4, 1835 in
                        the seventy-third year. John Anderson, b. Dec. 5, 1794, d. March 12, 1865. Elizabeth, wife of
                        John, d. Nov. 20, 1867, aged 67 yrs. 8 mo., 8 d."]
               
                  Melvina [Shelburne] Bennett [daughter of John Shelburne and his second wife,
                        Elizabeth Bush. She and Richmond Shelburne, above, were half sister and brother to Paschal and
                        the other Shelburne brothers and sisters. Melvina married Adonijah Bennett.]
               
                  John W[allace] Hill [son of Hardy Hill and his first wife, Mary Shelburne.
                        He married Jane Russell, sister of 
                            Spencer
                         Russell, and their son, Hardy Hill, married Rosella, below.]
               
                  Rosella [McClannuhan] Hill [daughter of Joseph McClannahan and Zerelda
                        (Anderson) McClannahan, above.  The children of Rosella and
                        this Hardy Hill, were descendants of two daughters of John and Charlotte (Wills) Shelburne: Mary
                        and Elizabeth.]
               
                  Sarah A[nne] Shelburne [daughter of 
                            Richmond
                         and Cinderilla (Pound) Shelburne.]
               
                        John Jones
                    
               
                        Sarah Jones
                    
               
                  C[hampion] S[helburne] Anderson [a son of John and Elizabeth (Shelburne)
                        Anderson, above. His stone in Little Flock Cemetry gives his dates: "b. Nov. 2, 1829,
                        d. June 19, 1918; w. Anne, 1836-1902." A brother, Samuel, d. May 2, 1844, aged 29
                        years.]
               
                  Ann Anderson [wife of Champion S. above.]
               
                        Amy F. Taylor
                    
               
                  W[illiam] H. Bolinger [son of John and Elizabeth (Siner) Bolinger, above. He
                        married Lola Bailey.]
               
                  Victoria Bolinger [sister of William H., above. Married Adam Miller.]
               
                        Caroline White
                    
               
                        Desdemona [Shelburne] Siner [sister of Paschal Shelburne. See sketch of Nelson
                        Siner, above. Before the 
                            Shelburn
                         Baptist Church was constituted, Desdemona was a widow. Nelson had served as
                        postmaster under Abraham 
                            Lincoln
                         (1861-1865), keeping the post office in his store. One evening some of his
                        neighbors and customers loafed about the store. Nelson, suspecting their purpose, and also
                        suspecting them of membership in the Knights of the Golden Circle, was careful that they learned
                        nothing. That night they broke into the home of Nelson and Dessie, demanding their money, and
                        threatening la put hot irons to their feet, unless they disclosed its hiding place. They did not
                        get the money, or carry out their dire threat. They took fright and fled, and were later
                        arrested for this and other marauding. The names of these persons and others of their gang
                        appear in a history of 
                            Sullivan County
                        . The shock of that terrible night weakened the health of Nelson and his wife, and
                        neither lived many years afterwards. Their stones in Little Flock Cemetry read: Nelson Siner,
                        died February 6, 1868, 58 years, 9 months, 9 days. Desdemona Siner, d. February 7, 1872, 65
                        years, 8 months." Near them are the stones of their son Spencer and his wife:
                        "Spencer S. d. January  8, 1882, 53 years, 5
                        months, 13 days. Elizabeth (1832-1896)." Her birth date was June 2, and she died August
                        8].
            
            This ends the list of constituent members of 
                        Shelburn
                     Baptist Church; but the minutes continue with the further account of the
                    organization:—"3rd. Sister Nancy Riley presented a letter from First 
                        Prairie
                     Creek Church. 4th. Brother H. H. Richards came forward and related his Christian
                    experience. 5th. By motion the Secretary agreed to call this organization by the name of 
                        Shelburn
                     Baptist Church. 6th. By motion and second, adopted the Articles of Faith, Rules of
                    Decorum and Covenant as set forth in Hiscocks Baptist Church Directory. 7th. By
                    motion and second, that we go into secret ballot for the election of one deacon. Brother E. W.
                    Shelburn received the majority of the votes and was duly elected. 8th. By motion and second, we hold
                    regular meeting on the Saturday before the fourth Sabbath in each month at 2 o'clock, P.M.
                    9th. By motion and second the clerk be instructed to write to ‘the following Churches for
                    a recognizing Council: Olive Branch, Little Flock, Mt. Zion, Union, 
                        New Harmony
                    , Fair Banks, Sullivan, Hudsonville, Zion; and Rev. G. A. Russell, Hartz Smith, and P.
                    W. Riley. 10th. By motion and second, the Clerk be instructed to post three notices for an election
                    to elect three trustees on Saturday before the fourth Sabbath in May. 11th. Moved to adjourn. R. B.
                    Shelburn, M.D., J.P. Siner, CLK."
            The first meeting recorded "Singing Prayer," minutes, etc., May 21, 1870. And on
                    July 23, 1870, the church appointed the following building committee: Bros, Hardy Hill, E. W.
                    Shelburn, Paschal Hill. And motion was made to ask admission into Curries 
                        Prairie
                     Association.
            Before leaving this topic, the author would like to make several acknowledgements, and leave several
                    thoughts in the minds of those who may see these pages. First, she wishes to acknowledge
                    indebtedness to Charles Thompson, 
                        Shelburn
                     attorney and banker, and present member of 
                        Shelburn
                     Baptist Church, who permitted her to copy the original records of Little Flock and 
                        Shelburn
                     Baptist churches. Since the older Minute Book is too fragile for frequent use, it
                    should be carefully mended in the modern invisible methods used by Indiana University librarians.
                    Then it should be photostated with the same care, so that copies  might be deposited in the Special Collections of Manuscripts in Indiana University, and in the
                    Indiana State Library at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In both libraries these records would be open to any historian or descendant at any
                    time, for further study and writing. Historians and genealogists are becoming ever more attentive to
                    the fact that such church records, along with Bible records, wills, deeds, etc., are more precious
                    than jewels as source material for state and church history, population movements, etc. They give
                    much that census records do not, and are on the whole possibly more accurate, and complete; yet are
                    constantly in danger from fire or other loss.
            Second, she wishes to express appreciation for the help given by her Mother, in the way of
                    identifying names and family relationships. As her constant guides on matters of family history she
                    has drawn on notes which she has taken through many years, and especially she has leaned upon John
                    E. Hunt, The Poiind and Kester Families (
                        Chicago
                    , 1904), and upon William Isaac Hull's William. Penn and the Dutch
                        Qzcaker Migration to 
                            Pennsylvania
                        
                (Swarthmore, 1935). She has also consulted other church records and histories
                    of Sullivan and Vigo counties.
            It is her hope to publish in the near future the Little Flock Church early membership list, and as
                    much as is available of the genealogies of the descendants of John Shelburne of 
                        Virginia
                    , brother of Augustine 111, both of whom came to 
                        Kentucky
                    , and later, heirs of both came into Indiana, and some to 
                        Texas
                    , 
                        Colorado
                    , and elsewhere. Any authentic data or traditions will be welcomed, whether on this
                    family or on any of the other families mentioned. This Shelburne family—and incidentally,
                    the correct spelling is with the e ending, despite the recently abbreviated form
                    in place names—according to tradition in the branch which remains in 
                        Virginia
                    , the 
                        Shelby County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , branch, and the Indiana branch, is descended from Thomas Shelburne who came from Great
                    Britian to 
                        Jamestown
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    , in 1607 as one of the "gentleman adventures," who paid with tobacco
                    the passage of one of the young maidens sent over as wives for these early would-be colonists of
                    America. There is also the tradition among all branches, that there was an estate in 
                        England
                     or 
                        Ireland
                     and a title, lost to the family, and a family coat of arms. Unless the Shelburne  title conferred by James I1 was one revived from earlier times,
                    rather than newly created, there appears to be but slight possibility of substantiating this thesis.
            Among the connected families about which the author would welcome further information is that of the
                    Ferguson family descendants of her great, great, great grandmother, Elizabeth (Lacock Ferguson)
                    Kester. She would like also to know the name of Elizabeth's first husband, and if there
                    were any descendants by this marriage. These questions have been raised by the following notes by A.
                    R. Markle, prominent geanealogist of 
                        Vigo County
                     families. These notes were published in the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Tribune, October 4, 1931, as follows: 
                        "197. Ferguson, William (1090). The Ferguson family of 
                                Vigo County
                            , Indiana. The greater portion of them came from Thomas Ferguson and his wife
                            Elizabeth, a widow when she married him, and as a widow she married again and help found the
                            family of Kesters, pioneers of 
                                Vigo County
                            . Samuel Ferguson, head of the second generation, born in
                            1758, married in 1779, had four children: Thomas, Athol, Nancy, and Leitha. He married (2)
                            Elizabeth Blue and had eleven children: Mary, born in 1791; Samuel, born in 1799; Elizabeth,
                            born in 1789, married Joseph Chambers in 1809; Sarah, born in 1793; Levina, born in in 1797;
                            John, born in 1801; William, born in 1803; Malinda, born in 1806; James, born in 1808;
                            Hosanna, born in 1810; Frank, born in 1813. Thomas, eldest son of Samuel (1), born in 
                                Maryland
                             in 1780, married in 
                                Ohio
                            , in 1808, Elizabeth Lee, and they had James, Anderson, Athol, John, Henry,
                            Nancy, Mary, and Eliza, or Elizabeth. Athol, the second son of Samuel (1), born in 
                                Maryland
                             in 1781, married Rebecca Paddock, who had become the "widow
                            Paine," and they had Nancy, Mary, Levina, Julia Ann, Leitha, and William. Nancy, third child of Samuel (1), born in 1783, married Ebenexer Paddock and they were parents of the mother of the late William Riley
                            McKeen [
                                Terre Haute
                             Banker]. Leitha, the fourth child of Samuel (1), born 1785, nothing known of
                            her in 
                                Vigo County
                            , probably that she married in 
                                Kentucky
                             or 
                                Ohio
                             and did not come with her parents in late 1816 [to 
                                Vigo County
                            ]. (Many of these lines are carried out and others of the Ferguson name in Vigo
                                 County mentioned, with marriages and
                            dates.)"
                     William Riley McKeen (b. in 
                        Vigo County
                    , October 12, 1829) was the son of Benjamin (b. in 
                        Kentucky
                    , January 1, 1803) and Leathy (Paddock) McKeen, who was born in 
                        Ohio
                    . See sketch in H. C. Bradsby, Historiy of 
                            Vigo County
                        , Indiana (
                        Chicago
                    , 1891), 840.
            Hunt, The Pound and Kester Families, 589 (Appendix P) sheds further light upon the
                    Ferguson and Paddock familes of 
                        Vigo County
                    : "Ebenezer Paddock came from 
                        Ohio
                     to Indiana and was an early settler in 
                        Vigo County
                    . His wife's name was Keziah Case. His children were: Henry, married Marium;
                    William married Letha Ferguson, daughter of Athel Ferguson, and a niece of Nancy Ferguson, above
                    named; Mary married Benjamin Harris; Rebecca married Elijah Payne, and then Athel Ferguson; Sarah
                    married James Drake; Catherine married Jacob Maddox; Rhoda married Jesse Rozzel; Susan married James
                    Thompson; Rachel was not married."
            Hunt, The Pound and Kester Families, 82, 94, and 96, throws still further light on
                    the Ferguson-Paddock connections. Two granddaughters of Thomas and Sarah (Kester) Pound married sons
                    of John and Letha (Ferguson) Paddock, above. These were Sarah Kercheval, daughter of William
                    Kercheval, son of Benjamin and Nancy (Pound) Kercheval. daughter of Thomas and Sarah (Kester) Pound,
                    who married William (Ferguson) Paddock. Mary Jane Kercheval, sister of Sarah, married Athel Paddock.
                    Bradsby, History of 
                            Vigo County
                        
               , 208, lists the following 
                        Vigo County
                     land entry, of September 21, 1825. Athel Ferguson to Thomas Ferguson 300 acres NW 1/4
                    of SW 1/4 of Section 2, and NW 1/4 of Section 11 Township North 10, Range West 10.
            One William Ferguson became a member, on February 10, 1838, of Maria Creek Church near 
                        Vincennes
                    . See Membership list: November, 1809-March, 1863. Other Fergusons: David, Sr., David,
                    Jr., Stephen, Lucy, and Leah were members of Palmers 
                        Prairie
                     Church.
         
      
   
