
     ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 101, Issue 1, pages 1-121. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:101+issue:1+year:2005&browseMode=source
    
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
            
        
        
            
            
                EDITOR'S NOTE
                This issue of the IMH is the first in our 100th year of publication. It focuses on the Civil War,
                    that perennial favorite topic among readers of American history-both here in Indiana (at least to
                    judge from the results of our 2004 readers’ poll) and across the country. One hundredand-forty years
                    after 
                        Appomattox
                    , the events of the war-and the clashing principles that led to them-continue to draw
                    public interest to a degree that is nearly unmatched among the signal events of the nation's
                    history. Our reviews and review notices for this issue reflect that continued interest; we have
                    included a number of relevant recent titles that we feel will interest specialists and general
                    readers alike. For the main article, we return to a format that the IMH has often featured over its
                    century-long run: the unpublished memoir-in this case, a manuscript of recollections by a Hoosier
                    soldier who served in the 93rd Indiana Regiment across the Western Theater of the war. The
                    document-found, transcribed, and annotated by George P. Clark of 
                        Louisville
                    , Kentuckyis augmented here both by Clark's own introduction and by remarks from
                    historian J. D. Fowler, who sets its contents into the context of other war memoirs.
                Finally, we look at the man who led the nation during its most difficult hour but did not live to
                    preside over its healing. Historian Darrel Bigham examines one of the most significant collections
                    of Lincoln images ever amassed: the Smith and Weinberg collections recently acquired by the Indiana
                    Historical Society. Leading our review section, Lincoln historian Daniel Stowell analyzes a group of
                    books that take on the difficult question of Lincoln's relation to the Constitution. This review
                    essay, the first of two that Stowell will write for these pages, is just one of a number of periodic
                    features on Lincoln that will appear in the IMH in anticipation of the state's bicentennial
                    commemoration of the president's birth-and subsequent Indiana boyhood-in 2009.
                
                The Civil War also provides a starting point for a long-term, online project intended to aid
                    primary-and secondary-school history and social studies teachers. Through this effort we hope to
                    increase access to a wealth of primary documents from the IMH's one-hundred-plus volumes. We begin
                    with fifty-five documents, mostly letters and journals, relating to Civil War soldiers. For a list,
                    go to http://www.indiana.edu/~imaghist. Linked to each document you will find an abstract of its
                    contents, some representative quotations, and additional information such as each soldier's county
                    of residence and regiment. In the coming months, the texts of these and other documents will be
                    available in PDF format; we will also be working with a team of educators from Indiana
                    University-Purdue University 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the 
                        Brown
                     County Schools, under the auspices of a Teaching American History grant from the
                    National Endowment for the Humanities, to provide lesson plans and accompanying suggestions for how
                    to use these materials in the classroom.
                Finally, as this issue was going to press, we received word of the death of longtime IMH editor
                    Donald Carmony Carmony, age 95, was a pioneer in the writing and teaching of Indiana history and he
                    left a major mark upon this journal. We will feature more thoughts on his life and legacy in an
                    upcoming issue.
            
            
            
                "This is in Brief My Remenence of My army Life" The Civil War Memoir of Louis Bir
                J. D. FOWLER
                Louis Bir was a typical Civil War soldier in most respects. He was young, only nineteen years old at
                    the time of his enlistment in the Ninety-Third Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment in 1862, and he
                    was anxious for a grand adventure. For the remainder of the war, Bir traveled across the Western
                    Theater, experiencing the horrors of combat, the agony of wounds, and the monotony of camp life.
                    Fortunately for future generations of historians, Bir was atypical of most Civil War soldiers in
                    that he left a record of his experiences. This record offers a fascinating glimpse into the life of
                    one "Billy Yank."1
                
                
                    J. D. Fowler is assistant professor of history, Kennesaw State University, Kennesaw, 
                            Georgia
                        . He is the author of Mountaineers in Gray: The Story oj the Nineteenth 
                                Tennessee
                             Volunteer Infantry Regiment, C. S. A. (2004) and Awash in the
                            Storm: 
                                Tennessee
                             During the Civil War Era (forthcoming)
                    
                        1 The best general studies of the experiences of Civil War soldiers are Bell
                        Wiley, The Life of Johnny Reb: The Common Soldier of the Confederacy (1943;
                        reprint, 
                            Baton Rouge
                        , La., 1996) Wiley, The Life of Billy Yank: The Common Soldier of the
                            Union (1952; reprint, 
                            Baton Rouge
                        , La., 1995); James Robertson, Jr., Soldiers Blue and Gray (
                            Columbia
                        , S.C., 1988); Reid 
                            Mitchell
                        , Civil War Soldiers: Their Expectations and Their Experiences (
                            New York
                        , 1988); Gerald E Linderman, Embattled Courage: The Experience of
                            Combat in the American Civil War (
                            New York
                        , 1987); James M. McPherson, What They Fought For, 1861-1865 (
                            New York
                        , 1994); McPherson, For Cause and Comrades: Why Men Fought in the Civil
                            War (
                            New York
                        , 1997).
                
                
                
                    Louis Bir in his Civil War uniform. Courtesy Vicki Blemker
                
                Bir's reminiscences, like other recollections of the war, paint a poignant picture of the hardships
                    of army life. He vividly describes his hunger, the poor quality of food, and his many marches across
                    the southern countryside. Because it was produced by, about, and for members of a unit or fellow
                    veterans, Bir's account is categorized as a firstgeneration narrative. Often these records have
                    serious limitations for students of the war. Many of the authors penned their histories decades
                    after the events described, allowing time and distance to cloud memories  and distort recollections. In addition, first-generation histories
                    almost always portray the author and his unit favorably. Incidents of cowardice, desertion, or
                    ineptitude often are not mentioned or are presented as aberrations. Also, these narratives, while
                    usually paying hagiographical tributes to brigade and regimental officers, tend to omit important
                    details about the heart of all Civil War regiments-the fighting men.2
                
                Sergeant Bir's account, however, is different from unit histories in two important ways. First, it is
                    not actually a unit history but rather a personal memoir. Apparently, Bir intended his recollections
                    to be delivered as an oral presentation, perhaps to his fellow veterans in the Grand Army of the
                    Republic. Also, his recollections offer us an unsanitized view of the war. Indeed, the most striking
                    aspect of Bir's memoir, and what truly makes it unique, is the author's honesty. Bir's willingness
                    to admit to being a thief, an immature boy who cried over practical jokes, and a racist gives much
                    credibility to his entire story.
                Several key points emerge that highlight the importance of this work. For example, it is odd that Bir
                    does not give a reason for his enlistment. He does not express any patriotic sentiment, nor does he
                    mention any community or kinship pressure he may have experienced. Either Bir expected his audience
                    to understand his motivations for fighting for the Union, or he did not consider them worth
                    mentioning. Perhaps if he intended his audience to be other veterans, he felt comfortable enough to
                    let his guard down and speak openly about issues and events that other veterans would understand.
                    For example, Bir talks candidly about pillaging with his comrades. Their bounty included pies, a
                    turkey, chickens, honey, and a calf. He recalls a southern woman pleading with him 
                        
                            2 A handful of historians have attempted to generate modern scholarly
                            regimental studies using a variety of primary sources, including individual military
                            records, census records, pension records, medical records, newspapers, diaries, and personal
                            papers in order to create a composite picture of the men of a regiment-the basic unit of the
                            Civil War armies. Leslie Anders's two books, The Eighteenth 
                                    Missouri
                                
                             (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968) and The Twenty-first 
                                    Missouri
                                : From Home Guard to Union Regiment (
                                Westport
                            , Conn., 1975), are both first rate in their use of sources and their emphasis
                            on the experiences of the common soldier. Likewise, Edward J. Hagerty's Collis’ Zouaves: The 114th 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Volunteers in the Civil War (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , La., 1996), Douglas Hale's The Third 
                                    Texas
                                 Cavalry in the Civil War (
                                Norman
                            , Ok., 1993), Ben Wynne's A Hard Trip: A History of the 15th 
                                    Mississippi
                                 Infantry, CSA (Macon, Ga., 2003), and John D. Fowler's Mountaineers in Gray: The Nineteenth 
                                    Tennessee
                                 Volunteer Infantry Regiment, C. S. A. (
                                Knoxville
                            , Tenn., 2004) are studies that go beyond the "bugles and bullets" to discuss
                            motivation, socioeconomic status, war weariness, and the daily routine and struggles of
                            ordinary combat soldiers.
                    
                     and his fellow soldiers not to take her calf because it was all
                    she had. However, he confesses that the Union troops ignored the old woman's pleas, killed the
                    animal, and carried it away while being pursued by Rebel troops. Obviously, Bir felt no guilt for
                    his actions, nor, apparently, did he care if his audience viewed him negatively.
                Bir's memoir contains several graphic passages related to combat. He remembers killing his first man
                    as his regiment retreated following Nathan 
                        Bedford
                     Forrest's rout of Union forces at Brice's Crossroads. Even though Bir had undoubtedly
                    fired into Rebel ranks before, perhaps wounding and killing any number of soldiers, this was the
                    first time he had watched a man die in front of him and realized that he had taken a life. The
                    memoir also contains gruesome reminders of the horrors of war. At the battle of 
                        Nashville
                     he writes of seeing the man next to him cut in half by a shell and watching as his
                    internal organs emerged from the shattered body. Later, as night brought an end to the fighting, he
                    could not sleep because a Rebel soldier lying nearby had suffered a ghastly head wound. Bir watched
                    and listened in horror as the soldier's brains oozed out with each of his final breaths. Such
                    graphic portrayal is real and brings the brutality of war home to the reader.
                Bir's account is also interesting because he neglects to discuss the Confederate soldiers in detail.
                    In fact, he rarely refers to the Rebels as individuals. One gets the sense that they are simply the
                    enemy. However, while Bir may have dehumanized his opponents, he does not apparently hate them. In
                    fact, he makes no derogatory comments about the Rebels other than the mention that he and his
                    comrades contracted lice by sleeping in an abandoned Confederate camp. He does remember Confederates
                    shooting prisoners, but he also describes his anger over Union troops executing Rebel captives. He
                    tells about the time a Rebel allowed him to ride a horse during an exhausting march toward
                    Andersonville, and he recalls how he enjoyed listening to the Confederate bands sent to entertain
                    the Federal troops at night. Even the death of his childhood friend does not appear to evoke rage or
                    hatred. Indeed, Bir does not seem to have harbored any overt hatred for the men who tried to kill
                    him for three years. In a sense, the Confederate forces appear to be just another obstacle, like the
                    weather or lack of food, that must be overcome.
                While Bir seems indifferent to southern soldiers, he apparently liked southern civilians. He became
                    infatuated with a girl in 
                        Memphis
                    , visiting her after the war to see if the spark could be reignited. Also, during a
                    stint at occupation duty near Meridian, he helped local planters 
                    convince the newly freed slaves to remain on the plantations as free laborers. Bir was forced to
                    kill a freedman while performing his policing duties. His only regret was having to ride sixty miles
                    round trip to report the killing to the nearest Provost Marshal. Bir's callousness here reveals one
                    of the least likeable facets of his personality, but it is one of the most important dimensions of
                    his memoir-racism. While Civil War scholars have documented that the overwhelming majority of white
                    Union troops were as racist as their southern counterparts, this fact is often lost on the general
                    public. Less than ten percent of the white northern public harbored abolitionist sentiment by 1860,
                    and many of those individuals would be considered racist by modern standards. Many white Union
                    troops, especially those from the Midwest, did not like African Americans and resisted the idea that
                    they were fighting for emancipation. While it cannot be denied that southern slave holders were
                    fighting to perpetuate the institution, it is equally true that the majority of white Union troops
                    could have cared less about the fate of the slaves. For them, the Union remained their cause.
                    Indeed, as historians of the war have noted, virtually all white Union troops supported the war to
                    save the Union, and if they supported emancipation, it was only as a war aim designed to weaken the
                        South.3
                
                Bir's work shows clearly that he and his comrades were products of their society's racial and ethnic
                    biases. In addition to the racism portrayed, Bir mentions the looting by Union forces of
                    Jewish-owned businesses in Cairo, 
                        Illinois
                    , and the unwillingness of Union commanders to stop it. Bir himself stole a barrel of
                    eggs while others tossed a hog through the window of a Jewish merchant's shop. Bir even recalled
                    seeing one of his comrades "shoot down" a Jew who would not grant him credit.
                Bir's honesty is disturbing yet refreshing. Many post-war accounts were carefully sanitized and
                    self-serving. Since Bir intended for his reminiscences to be read to fellow veterans at reunions, he
                    apparently believed that his audience would be receptive to his positions and experiences. We, of
                    course, do not know how his stories were received or if those present shared similar attitudes.
                    However, Bir's account should 
                        
                            3 For a good analysis of the attitude of Northern white troops toward
                            African Americans, slavery, and emancipation, see the following: McPherson, What They Fought For, 56-69; McPherson, For Cause and
                            Comrades, 117-30; Wiley, The Life of Billy Yank, 109-23; 
                                Mitchell
                            , Civil War Soldiers, 14-15, 41-42, 91, 104, 119, 121-23,
                            126-31, 197-98.
                    
                     find a responsive audience among modern students of the war. The
                    memoir offers social, regional, and Civil War historians a valuable primary source and takes the
                    general public on a fascinating journey into the past as seen through the eyes of someone who was
                    there. The author's candid portrayal of his experiences from diarrhea to watching men die offers us
                    a chance to see what Walt Whitman lamented would never get into the books-the real war.4
                
                
                    
                        4 Gay Wilson Allen and Sculley Bradley, eds., The Collected
                            Writings of Walt Whitman, 2 vols., Prose Works 1892: Specimen Days (
                            New York
                        , 1963), 115-18.
                
            
            
            
                "Battles Long Ago" A Hoosier Civil War Veteran and His Memoir of Service in the Western Theater
                GEORGE P. CLARK
                The author of this memoir, Louis Bir, was a prominent businessman and community leader of New 
                        Albany
                    , Indiana, at the time of his death, at the age of 80, March 6, 1923. Like so many
                    soldiers of the Civil War, he was still a green teenager when he enlisted in Indiana's 93rd Infantry
                    Regiment in 1862, but very much a seasoned veteran when he returned home at war's end in 1865. There
                    was little to keep him in the farming community where he was raised, the namesake of his French
                    immigrant father, but there was much to attract a clever young man who 
                        George P. Clark is professor emeritus of English, 
                                Hanover
                             College 
                                Hanover
                            , Indiana. He is the editor of "Through Indiana by Stagecoach and Canal Boat:
                            The 1843 Travel Journal of Charles H. Titus," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            85 (September 1989), and has contributed to Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                                History. He writes: "For courtesies and permission to edit and print the
                                manuscript, I am indebted to the late Mrs. Robert Zoeller, great-granddaughter of Louis
                                Bir, to her daughter, Marilyn Wellons, and to Vicki (Mrs. Robert) Blemker, Bir's
                                great-great-grandchild. Mrs. Blemker offered her full cooperation and has supplied much
                                useful information, including photographs of the young corporal (miscaptioned long ago:
                                "Lewis" Bir) and of the aging veteran and his family in his 60th year. My heartfelt
                                thanks to Lynn Ruef, manager, Betty Menges, assistant manager, Cynthia Forman, and
                                others of the Indiana History Department of the New 
                                    Albany
                                -Foyd County Public Library for their many courtesies. Thanks also to Dawn
                                Bakken and the editorial staf of the IMH for their scrupulous
                                attention to the production of this article. Finally I am most grateful for the
                                unfailing encouragement and assistance of my wife, Shirley Ellen Clark, without whom I
                                would have been unable to complete this project."
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The tombstone of Louis Bir pere in 
                                Floyd County
                            , Indiana. A French immigrant, he died when his son and namesake was only seven
                            years old.
                        Courtesy George P. Clark
                     had witnessed the expansion of 
                        Ohio
                     River commerce during the war. In those years New 
                        Albany
                    , just below the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     and only a dozen miles from his birthplace, had become a major supply and shipbuilding
                    port and the second-largest city in the state. And Bir recognized it as a still-important riverine
                    commercial center where he could exercise his industry and shrewdness in establishing a business of
                    his own. Success was not to come quickly, however, to a landless veteran, soon married and with
                    children, but with little grammar school education. 
                    
                        By his 60th year, Bir was a prosperous New 
                                Albany
                             businessman with an extended family. From left to right: Louis Bir, grandson
                            Harry, wife Sophia, son E. M., grandson James, and daughter-in-law Nellie.
                        Courtesy Vicki Blemker
                     There is no information available about his immediate postwar years, but his later career
                    in business argues that he was industrious and acquiring capital in New 
                        Albany
                    . In Williams’ New 
                            Albany
                         Directory For 1871-72, one finds Louis Bir as the proprietor of one of the
                    city's several dozen bakeries serving its more than 15,000 citizens. Ten years later he was well
                    established in New 
                        Albany
                     as the owner of a sawmill that processed lumber rafted downriver from West 
                        Virginia and Kentucky
                    . Raised in the heavily wooded hills above the city, he had observed as a soldier the
                    importance of the lumber industry in supplying material for camps and fortifications. And back home
                    he noted the many mills providing lumber for the shipbuilding that flourished on the 
                        Ohio
                     River waterfront. A brief, unpublished note, "History of Bir Lumber Co. 1883 to Present
                    [1954]," written by his grandson, Harry E. Bir, chronicles Louis's success in business as he became
                    sole owner of Bir Lumber Company and diversified into real estate and the important glass-making
                    industry in New 
                        Albany
                    . His obituary noted his wartime service and 
                    observed, "He was widely known here, and was considered one of the city's most substantial business
                        men."1
                
                Louis Bir's account of his Civil War has been preserved by his descendants in its original form as 39
                    loosely bound manuscript pages pencilled many years after the war on the backs of 8 1/2" x 11"
                    printed business forms at hand in his office. In 1961, a typescript in solid capital letters (to
                    avoid capitalization problems) was made by Mrs. Harry E. Bir, wife of a grandson of the author.
                    About 30 years later, Bir's granddaughter, Jeanne Bir Needham, typed the document with largely
                    conventional spelling and punctuation. In recent years the manuscript, in family possession, has
                    deteriorated somewhat. Missing text has had to be supplied from the 1961 typescript.
                Bir wrote fluently with little self-correction. The greatest problem in bringing his writing to the
                    printed page is his disregard for the niceties of spelling and capitalization. Totally faithful
                    reproduction of his spelling seems hardly possible. It is no revelation that most soldiers, North
                    and South, had minimal writing experience. The value of Bir's memoir is that even though composed
                    many years after the war, it presents with fidelity the experiences and attitudes of a youthful
                    volunteer from southern Indiana who participated in several significant contests of the Civil War,
                    including the Siege of Vicksburg and the Battle of 
                        Nashville
                    .
                Bir carefully notes the place and date of garrison assignments and "Expeditions" against the cavalry
                    of Gen. Nathan 
                        Bedford
                     Forrest, the bete noire of the Union Army. He uniformly identifies units involved and
                    the names of their commanders, and offers details of troop movements by land and water. He names
                    some fifty towns and villages and battlefields scattered among the nine states of the Western
                    Theater where he soldiered. And he gives these details with the immediacy one might expect in an
                    account fresh upon the experience of battle.
                Bir, an active member of the Grand Army of the Republic (GAR, the Union Veterans’ association),
                    attended its Twenty-sixth National Encampment at 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., September 19-23, 1892. His experience there may have inspired his writing.2 Interspersed in his memoir 
                        
                            1 New 
                                
                                    Albany
                                 Weekly Ledger, March 7, 1923, p. 8
                        
                            2 Bir probably also attended the Twenty-ninth National Encampment at 
                                Louisville, Kentucky
                            , in 1895.
                    
                    
                    
                        LEVVTYPE EDITION-COPYRIGHT 1892. D. F. ROWE & CO., PUBLISHERS, PHILADELPHIA. Price
                            Ten Cents.
                        A souvenir program from the 1892 national GAR encampment that Bir attended in 
                                Washington
                            , D. C.
                        Courtesy George P. Clark
                    
                     are numerous notes to himself such as "Here Relate the Incidant
                    of Camp duty" and asides such as "This is a Little Side Show now and you Fellows out to tell on me
                    for this." They clearly indicate that Bir did not consider this manuscript complete, for many
                    experiences remained to be narrated. The scattered hints are persuasive that he intended oral
                    delivery of at least a part of his memoir, for as an active member of the local GAR post for many
                    years he would have had numerous occasions to speak.3
                
                Bir's specific recall of so many historic events is certainly due to the deep impression they made
                    upon him. But it also seems probable that his narrative is enriched not only by years of exchanging
                    yarns with his buddies at the New 
                        Albany
                     Post of the GAR, but also by reading magazine and newspaper accounts by other veterans,
                    and possibly the books of leaders North and South in immediate decades after the war.4 Bir is not known to have kept a diary of his wartime experiences or to have done other
                    writing.
                
                    
                        3 James H. 
                            Madison
                         has written informatively on the significance of the GAR in the lives of aging
                        veterans. 
                            Madison
                        , "Civil War Memories and ‘Pardnership Forgittin’,’ 1865-1913," Indiana
                            Magazine of History (September 2003), 207-208.
                    
                        4 For example, U. S. Grant's Personal Memoirs, 1885; W. T.
                        Sherman's Memoirs ofW. T. Sherman by Himself, 1891; Thomas 
                            Jordan
                        's The Campaigns of Lieut.-Gen. N. B. Forrest and of Forrest's
                        Cavalry, 1868; John B. Gordon's, Reminiscences of the Civil War, 1903;
                        James Longstreet's From Manassas to 
                                Appomattox
                            , 1896; the compilation Battles and Leaders of the Civil
                        War, 1887; W H. H. Terrell's Report of the Adjutant General of the State of
                            Indiana, begun in 1866; and perhaps the Official Records of the War of the
                            Rebellion, begun in 1880.
                
            
            
            
                "Remenecence of My Army Life"
                LOUIS BIR Edited by George P. Clark
                I was borned in Clark Co Ind.
                My Father died 1849 Leaving my mother with 7 children.1 I was the 4 So you See we
                    all were young & had to work hard to make a Living.
                
                    
                        
                            ∗ The original manuscript contains forty handwritten pages, with two
                            numbered pages 22 and 34. In general, the right edges of the sheets suffer from
                            disintegration or curling. Some pages have deteriorated along the top edge; two pages have a
                            hole in the center; and the first and last pages exhibit additional wear from serving as the
                            de facto cover. Missing text has been supplied in square brackets and has been taken from
                            the 1961 typescript.
                        Primary transcription and footnoting were carried out by George P. Clark, with additions by
                            the editorial staff of the IMH. The editors retained all original ampersands, dashes, and
                            underlining. Bir did not use periods (except for abbreviations), commas, or apostrophes. He
                            used hyphens at the ends of some sentences and equal signs as dashes. New paragraphs,
                            indicated here with indentation, were usually indicated by a break at the end of one line
                            and the beginning of the next line at the left margin.
                        Bir's spelling has been maintained as accurately as possible. He characteristically omitted
                            the final "e" from place names such as 
                                Nashville and Gainesville
                            , and he frequently dropped one of the double consonants from words such as
                            battle and off. A few unclear words have been provided in square brackets. Names of people,
                            places, and ships have been capitalized. Bir did not distinguish between lower-and
                            upper-case forms of the letters a, m, n, and y; these ambiguous letters have been
                            capitalized according to modern convention.
                    
                    
                        1 Bir's father, also Louis, was born in 
                            Courcelles-Chaussy
                        , Department of Moselle, 
                            France
                        , in 1802. He died August 19, 1850, at age 48, according to the inscription on his
                        headstone in the parish cemetery of St. Mary of the Knobs Catholic Church, 
                            Floyd County
                        , Indiana. Louis Bir fils
                    
                
                
                
                    A manuscript page from Louis Bir's memoir.
                    Courtesy Vicki Blemker and George P. Clark
                
                
                I Began to work out by days work when I was 7 years old and I earned 15 to 25 cts per day and worked
                    from daylight untill Dark throughout the spring and Sumr and went to School 3 month in a yeare this
                    was the Extent of my Schooling.
                When the war comenced I allways was very anxious to Inlist and mad Several attempts to do so but me
                    Being at this time my mothers main suport and an obedient Child woul giv up for mothers Sake but
                    Early in 61 Belonged to a company of Home guards and drilled Every week 1/2 Day untill August
                        1862.2 One friday night I went Home and told my mother I was going to T[own
                    to] Enlist in the army mother finely concen[ted so] after super myself and William Atkins and [
                        Val
                     Helbig] walked to this city geting here before day[light] we Stood around the market
                    House u[ntil the] Light & went to Joseph Renn for our [breakfast.]3
                    After our meal we went out to find [someone] that wanted Recruits and found Lafe Frederick4 [on] the corner of Pearl & Market and We Three Put down our name
                    & of Coarse we were men then and we had to go and take a Drink & then anoth[er] and
                    So on and in the after noon we went Hom[e] & Staid home over Sunday & 
                        was born August 19, 1843. Although mistaken about the year of his father's death, he was
                            only 7 at the time.
                        
                            2 The Home Guards or militia, more formally the Indiana Legion,
                            consisted entirely of volunteers organized by counties in military fashion under officers
                            commissioned by Governor Oliver P. Morton. "Nearly all of the regiments composing the Legion
                            were organized in the counties near the 
                                Ohio
                             River, where there was constant fear of raids by Confederate sympathizers from 
                                Kentucky
                            ." Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era,
                            1850-1880 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1965), 141-42.
                        
                            3 Bir and his fellow volunteers walked in darkness about ten miles from 
                                Mooresville
                             (now Floyds Knobs) to Renn's grocery on State Street in New 
                                Albany
                            . William C. Atkins and Valentine Hellwic, both of New 
                                Albany
                            , were mustered into Company K of the 93rd Indiana on August 29, 1862. Hellwic
                            was mustered out at the end of the war on November 10, 1865, as a Sergeant; Atkins rose to
                            the rank of Corporal and was killed in the Battle of Guntown, June 10, 1864, as Bir relates
                            later in this memoir. Bir's spelling of his friend Val Helbig's name probably reflects the
                            local pronunciation. W. H. H. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General of the
                                State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1865-1869), 6:516.
                        
                            4 Capt. 
                                LaFayette
                             Frederick, of Galena, was recruiting in New 
                                Albany
                             for the 93rd Infantry Regiment. Frederick had been commissioned as an officer
                            in August 1862 and was mustered into service October 31, 1862. He resigned his commission
                            August 13, 1863, and was replaced as captain of Company K of the 93rd Indiana by William
                            Lamb, also of Galena, who had been promoted from First Lieutenant. Lamb was mustered out of
                            the army with the rest of the company at the end of the war. Terrell, Report of
                                the Adjutant General, 3:122. The initial appointment of officers and the subsequent
                            history of promotions can be followed in "93rd IVI Correspondence," Adjutant General of
                            Indiana, microfilm, roll no. 97, Military Records Files, drawer 401-A-7 (Indiana State
                            Archives, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                    
                     Monday we walked Down to Galena and Joined our company which
                    w[as] mostly from Morsvill & Galina and Came to old Noble.5 On our way
                    the People [along the route] gave us a Rousing & Hartily greeting [it instilled] in our
                    young Harts great Patriotism and [one] feel Brave & [good].
                We arived at the fair ground about 11 oclock and found that the good Ladies of our vacinity ha[d]
                    Huried ahead of us and set us a fine diner whi[ch] I asure you we did it Justice.
                So after this meal we Began our Souldier Cooking and of coars Lived Like Fighting Cocks with Plenty
                    of coffee & 
                        Brown
                     Sugar to Put in it us fellows that was not used to Having Sugar in our coffee used it
                    to Freely and it made me sick. Finely had to use Sugar only moderatly.6
                
                We Remained in Camp Noble for about 3 Weeks and Stood guard duty with clubs and Even Looked brav[e]
                    about this time the Scare of Braggs army atacting Louisvill was on and we had to on severel ocasion
                    Doublequick down to the Rivr to fight him & Did not Hav nothing to fight with only clubs
                    yett we thought if he came over we would Lick him quick.7
                
                But I never will forget the day we Were Examined I was at this time very thin and Light & i
                    was afraid i would be Regected we were all in Line and taken one at a time and Had to Stripp as
                    naced as the day we were borned and I being a bashfull-good-Boy it was about the hardest Stask i
                    Stood during the war the Doctor turne[d] me around Several tims and then gave me a slapp and told me
                    i was all Right. This Lightend my Hart considerable.8 After being drilled Squad
                    & co & Regimental Drill 
                        
                            5 Camp Noble occupied the 
                                Floyd County
                             Fair Grounds north of the city. The New 
                                    Albany
                                 Weekly Ledger, July 13, 1861, declared, "The camp is all that could be
                            desired as far as convenience and comfort are concerned, and the men seem to be well pleased
                            with their new mode of life."
                        
                            6 "Coffee is the soldier's greatest sustainer; and he will miss it more
                            than any other part of his ration." August V. Kautz, Customs of Service for
                                Non-Commissioned Officers and Soldiers (2nd ed., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1865), 263.
                        
                            7 Bragg's invasion of 
                                Kentucky
                             in the fall of 1862 was finally repulsed at Perryville on October 8 by Union
                            forces commanded by Gen. Don Carlos Buell. A recent account of the "Scare" is Stephen I.
                            Rockenbach, "A Border City at War: 
                                Louisville
                             and the 1862 Confederate Invasion of 
                                Kentucky
                            ," 
                                
                                    Ohio
                                 Valley History, 3 (Winter 2003), 35-52.
                        
                            8 Bell I. Wiley notes, "Physical examination was a prescribed feature of
                            induction, but in many instances medical scrutiny was so casual as to make it a mockery."
                            Wiley, The Common Soldier of the Civil War (
                                New York
                            , 1975), 8. Muster records of the 93rd Indiana Regiment show that on August 29,
                            1862, in New 
                                Albany
                            , Bir was enrolled by Capt. Frederick for 3 years as Private
                    
                     for Severel weeks and all of our Best girls would come to see us
                    Drill it made us feel Like we were Some one.
                However marching ordrs Came and we Packed our Knapsacks to the Size of a Saratoga Trunk and marched
                    out Silver St to the old 
                        Pike
                     that Led to Jeffersonvill the old 
                        Pike
                     Road was what is now the J. M & 1 R. R Bed.9
                
                This being about the 20 of Sept it was very warm and it tried Some of the Boys we arived at Jeff
                    about 11 oclock & wated for the Two oclock Packet and all abord we steamed up the River and
                    then we begen to bet where we were going we suposed we were on our way to the army of the Potomack.
                    But after darke we was Landed at 
                        Madison
                     Ind and orderd of & marched to the old camp ground called Camp Emerson a very
                    nice grove after Remaining Here a few days we drew our guns the old 
                        Springfield
                     Rifle and bigan drilling and Target Shooting and we soon found out that we had a gun
                    that Killed behind as well as in front and we were just going Home and quit the army if they did not
                    give us other guns-you Know-10 However we concluded to Remain a while Longer as
                    we was afraid that the war would come to a close Before we would be orderd to the front-Here I
                    witness [ed] the first fellows Drumed out of Camp and it was quite a Sight to See the 2 fellows With
                    their Head Shaved & marched out of camp-
                Here Relate the Incidant of Camp duty-11
                    
                        Company K, 93rd Regiment, and was mustered in October 31, 1862, at 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, by Capt. Newman. Bir is described as having dark eyes and hair and
                            dark complexion, height 5’ 11". "Civil War Muster Cards," microfilm, roll no. 5, Military
                            Records Files, Drawer 401-A-l (Indiana State Archives). According to figures in Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, 1:110, Appendix: Statistics and
                            Documents, Doc. 14, Bir was about three inches taller than the average Hoosier soldier and,
                            at 19, in the preponderant age group of those 20 and under.
                        
                            9 A Saratoga trunk was a large traveling trunk, usually possessing a
                            rounded top. When first built, the 
                                Jeffersonville
                                Madison
                             Railroad ran twenty miles north from 
                                Madison
                             to Vernon. Eventually renamed the 
                                Jeffersonville
                                Madison and Indianapolis
                            , it was extended in segments until in 1847 it reached the state capital.
                            Richard S. Simons and Francis H. Parker, Railroads of Indiana (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1997), 30, 114-17.
                        
                            10 Camp Emerson was situated on a floodplain of the 
                                Ohio
                             River, now the site of the 
                                Madison
                             Country Club. Bir's maligned "old 
                                Springfield
                             rifle" might well have been in service since 1855 or earlier. The 
                                Springfield
                             Model 1861 "with modifications, dominated the field of Union longarms for the
                            duration of the war." William C. Davis, Rebels and Yankees: The Fighting Men of
                                the Civil War (
                                New York
                            , 1991), 56.
                        
                            11 This is the first of several indications that Bir probably intended
                            to read his memoir to veterans. The practical jokes that Bir relates were typical of Civil
                            War camp life. One 
                                Illinois
                             soldier who was a pipe smoker had his tobacco laced with gunpowder by some of
                            his compatriots. James I. Robertson, Jr., "Fun, Frolics, and Firewater," in The
                                Civil War Soldier: A Historical Reader, ed. by Michael Barton and Larry M. Logue (
                                New York
                            , 2002), 130-31.
                    
                     And it was While in this camp that I Had Rathr Hard Luck as I
                    thought-I Had been Injoying joke[s] and all Kinds of trick Playd on other Boys for some times i
                    thought I was a Kind of a Pet and non[e] of these oldr fellows would Play any trick on m[e]. But it
                    came to a focus at Last and some one Layed Down behind me and another Pushed me and i fell Down a
                    hill about 20 feet and got up and began Pawing the ground for Something to Kill these fellows with
                    and they Held me and only made me madr and I was going stright Home this time Sure for i would not
                    stay with Such a fellows that would treat me so. But i finly went to my quartrs and cried it out and
                    got up next morning feeling akind ashamed of myself. But it was a good Lesson for me for aftr this I
                    Learned How to take a Joke & Plaid many a nothers & Had many Plaid on my self.
                Here I will Say that our first col was old Col Mcquidy of State St. confectionest. But for some cause
                    He was Removed and Col D. C Thomas of 
                        Salem
                     took charge of the Regiment and about the midle of Octobr we got marching ordrs and we
                    marched up to the top of the hill and Here we took the train for Indianopalis.12
                    Ariving there we turned ovr our old 
                        Springfield
                     Rifles and Drew the Infield Rifle & we were Hapy now we left Indinapalis the
                    Same Evening and arived at Cairo about day light & Stacked arms on the Leavy to wate for our
                        boat-13 But while 
                        
                            
                                12 Bir has, for unknown reasons, conflated two different men. Major
                                James E McCurdy of New 
                                    Albany
                                , Indiana, commanded the post at Camp Noble for a time in the fall of 1862,
                                but is listed in state records and documented in official correspondence as declining a
                                commission to be colonel of the regiment. He was replaced, as Bir notes, by Col. DeWitt
                                C. Thomas of 
                                    Salem
                                , who was commissioned and mustered in on October 21, 1862, and was mustered
                                out with his regiment at the end of the war. Bir may or may not have met McCurdy at Camp
                                Noble; he does not mention the name in his memoir. Bir did know Albert H. McQuiddy, a
                                confectionist on State Street in New 
                                    Albany
                                 after the war and a member of Bir's Sanderson Post 191 of the GAR. Terrell,
                                    Report oj the Adjutant General, 3:119; "93rd IVI Correspondence,"
                                Indiana State Archives.
                            At 
                                    Madison
                                 the celebrated inclined-plane railroad cut of 1841 brought horse-drawn cars
                                from river level up 400 feet to the hilltop at North 
                                    Madison
                                . In time, specially designed woodburning steam locomotives pulled cars up
                                the grade. (One of these, the Reuben Wells, is preserved as a permanent exhibit at the
                                Children's Museum of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                .) George R Clark, Into the Old Northwest: Journeys with
                                    Charles H. Titus 1841-1846 (East Lansing, Mich., 1994), 49, 121 n4.
                        
                        
                            13 The Enfield rifle, manufactured in 
                                England
                            , was more accurate than the 
                                Springfield
                            . Enfields were purchased in large quantities by both the North and the South;
                            the rifle issued to Bir was evidently bought in Europe by Robert Dale Owen for the state
                            arsenal. Owen purchased 30,000 Enfield rifles for Indiana during the war. Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 165. Calvin Fletcher recorded in his diary
                            for the day of February 22, 1862, that the arsenal was "near the state house north side
                            where some 100 women are making cartreges &c." Gayle Thornbrough, 
                    
                     wating a Baker With a 2 Wheeled cart came along to sell us Pies
                    cakes & Bread & we were Hungery of Coarse and could not wate for him to Hand them
                    out at 10 a Piece and we turned the truck ovr Horse cart and man all togathr and of cors began to
                    help him to get Rid of his Load-of Coars-I being a-good-Boy Did not take but 2 Pies & Having
                    no money I thought I would Pay him another time and will to if I Ever See him- So if any of you see
                    him Tell him to come up to 13 & Main and get His money and 
                        Ill
                    Be glad to See him-We finely got abord of the old Sterner Forest Queenen &
                    Landed at Memphes 
                        Tenn
                     the next day14 & was Camped in Some old building near the
                    Landing and the orders was for all to stay in camp for the town was well marsheled and we would get
                    in the guard house.
                And the Col ordrd out guard to Keep us in and we Kept going out and He Kept Doubling up the guard
                    untill we could touch one Enothr with our bayo[ne]t and yet thay would get out and he finaly took
                    all of the guards of & told the Provost marshall of the city to Send Every fellow that did
                    not Hav a Pass to Fort Pickering and Put them to work on the fortifications this Sort a checked us
                    but after a few days we Had marching ordrs and the col found about half of His Regiment absent at
                    Fort Pickering & had to go and get them out-15 We marched out a few
                    miles to camp & Here we first Saw General Grant & Gen Shurman & here we was
                    Put in Brigades. Our Brigade at this time was composed of 
                        
                            Dorothy L. Riker, Paula Corpuz, eds., The Diary of Calvin Fletcher (9
                                vols., 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1972-1983), 7:352.
                            Cairo, 
                                    Illinois
                                , situated at the confluence of the 
                                    Mississippi and Ohio
                                 rivers, was a supply depot of the Union army and the base for Brig. Gen.
                                Ulysses S. Grant's campaign against 
                                    Tennessee
                                's Forts Henry and Donelson in February 1862. Ulysses S. Grant, Personal Memoirs of U. S, Grant (2 vols., 
                                    New York
                                , 1885-1886), 1:287-93.
                        
                        
                            14
                            Forest Queen was one of several steamboats leased to the federal
                            government by the Gaff brothers, prominent bankers and manufacturers of 
                                Aurora
                            , Indiana; http://www. hillforest. org/ intro. htm. On November 13, 1862, the
                            1st Division of the Army of the 
                                Kentucky
                            , commanded by Brig. Gen. Andrew Jackson Smith, received orders to proceed to 
                                Memphis, Tennessee
                            . Frank J. Welcher, The Union Army 1861-1865: Organization and Operations: Vol. 2, The Western Theater (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1993), 182.
                        
                            15 Confederate Fort Pickering in south 
                                Memphis
                             extended over a mile along the 
                                Mississippi
                             and gave its name to a neighboring section of the city. Its numerous batteries
                            opposed attack by land or river. Together with the city of 
                                Memphis
                            , it fell into Federal hands on June 6, 1862, when the protective Confederate
                            gunboat fleet was routed by U. S. naval rams and gunboats under Commodore Charles Davis.
                            Calvin D. Cowles, comp., Atlas to Accompany the Official Records of the Union
                                and Confederate Armies (3 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1891-1895), plate 114; E. B. Long with Barbara Long, The Civil
                                War Day by Day: An Almanac 1861-1865 (
                                New York
                            , 1971), 222.
                    
                     the following Regimants 72 & 95 
                        Ohio
                     114 
                        Ill
                     26 & 93 Ind With Gen Buckner as Comandr of Brigade. At this time I dont think
                    the army was Put in core this was about the 1 of Nov 1862.16 Soon after we got
                    marching ordrs and well do i Remembr the firs days march in dixy but I Stood it very well. The first
                    night in camp we or Rather my mess got a Fine Turkey I a-good boy Caught the turkey of coarse Being
                    young and Excited I forgot to Pay for it but I will if i find the owner of it-of Coarse. The turkey
                    was good-Up Before day Light next morning we march all day and it was Rathr hardr on us then the 1st
                    day. Went in to camp on Peigon Creek & Rested one day and while Resting=myself &
                    Pard Went out forging and got Some chickens and Honey & on the way Home we Eat Honey and
                    that night I Had the cramps untill I thought my time Had come but I a-good Boy was not afraid to
                    die=I dont Like Honey now-never took anybody Huney after that-
                The next days march we had a Little Scurmishing to do and Here I heard the First Shrink of the Shell
                    and of coars had Lots to tell about our first adventurs.
                That night we went into camp and we saw that we were going to hav a Storm and fixed our tents we
                    thought all Right. Just after dark it Began to Rain & blow and in 3 minuits there was not a
                    tent in the Brigad a Standing and we got an awfull Dranching and I a-good-boy of Coarse was not
                    Praying about this time but felt Like going Home it Rained all night we Was got out before daylight
                    next morning and Started out and it Rained all day & we Would march 10 Steps and wait 1 hour
                    and so all day we did not go our 1 mile and so for several days. But we finely got near Moscow [
                        Tennessee
                    ] and Here we were to go into wintr quarters as we thought. We were Drilled Every day in
                    Brigade Drill & Doing Picket Duty for Some 2 Weeks or more and finely it was Reported that
                    Vandorn was about to cut off our suplys and our brigade was orderd back to 
                        
                            16 "On the 9th of November [1862] the regiment moved by rail for Cairo, 
                                Illinois
                            , and from thence proceeded to 
                                Memphis, Tennessee
                            , where it was assigned to Buckland's brigade, and, on the 26th, moved with the
                            army of General [William Tecumseh] Sherman to Hurricane creek, near 
                                Oxford, Mississippi
                            ." Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, 3:123. At the
                            siege of Vicksburg, the 93rd Indiana was in Fifteenth Army Corps, Third Division, First
                            Brigade, under Brig. Gen. Ralph P. Buckland. Buckland had been a brigade commander under
                            Sherman at 
                                Shiloh
                            ; he was given command of the Fifteenth Corps at Vicksburg. The First Brigade
                            was composed of the regiments specified by Bir with the exception that the 26th Indiana was
                            in the First Brigade, Second Division, Thirteenth Army Corps. R. U. Johnson and C. C. Buel,
                            eds., Battles and Leaders of the Civil War (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1884-1888), 3:547; "Indiana Regimental Histories,26th Regiment Infantry,"
                            http://civilwarindiana. com/reg_history_infO. html.
                    
                     Hollow Springs to Hold this Post as it was the main Depot of
                    Suplies for General Grants army. Here we Had one of the Hardest marches of our army life we went on
                    a force march to beat Vandorn to Hollow Springs and marchd 2 days & 1 night with only about
                    4 hours stop we Reached Hollow Springs in time to see all of our Suplies going up in Smoke and
                    Vandorn Riding out of town it seems as a Col Kelly of the 19 111 Cavelry Had Surenderd without a
                    firing a gun to only a small force of Vandorn Calvery=17 Of Coarse we were
                    Completly worn out and camped near the Depot that was burning and in a Short time aftr going in to
                    camp we were all asleep & at 9 oclock the Long Roll Beat and Here we lit out Leaving our old
                    cibly tents Standing and we nevr Seen them aftr this.18 We marched all night and
                    all next day untill after dark & Here we were allowed to sleep about 4 hours and Started out
                    again Pasing through Bolivr and on to Grand Junction.19 Reaching this Place Just
                    before dark Having marched 4 Days and 3 nights with only about 7 or 8 Hours Rest on Reaching Grand
                    Junction our brigade did not Hav over 150 men in it I went in with our colers=Vandorn Picked up many
                    of our straglrs and went to Andersonvill and othr Prisons to die=20 This Ended
                    one of the 
                        
                            17 It was not Kelly but Col. R. C. Murphy of the 8th 
                                Wisconsin
                            , commanding at Holly Springs, who surrendered the Union supply depot to
                            Confederate Gen. Earl VanDorn's forces on December 20, 1862. The southern troops destroyed
                            the supplies and then escaped. Grant had already advanced to 
                                Oxford
                             as part of his (first) campaign to Vicksburg and was forced to retreat to Grand
                            Junction, 
                                Tennessee
                            , after his supply line was effectively destroyed. Murphy was dismissed from
                            military service. Grant wrote: "The surrender of Holly Springs was most reprehensible and
                            showed either the disloyalty of Colonel Murphy to the cause which he professed to serve, or
                            gross cowardice." Grant, Personal Memoirs, 1:434. Battle summaries and
                            biographical information on Union and Confederate officers for this and many subsequent
                            notes are taken from Mark Mayo Boatner, III, The Civil War Dictionary,
                            rev. ed. (
                                New York
                            , 1987); Long, Civil War Day by Day; James M. McPherson, Battle Cry of Freedom: The Civil War Era (
                                New York
                            , 1988); and the American Battlefield Protection Program website at http://www2.
                            cr. nps. gov/abpp/battles/bycampgn. htm.
                        
                            18 The long roll on the drums sounded a general alarm. The Sibley tent,
                            used by both armies, was cone-shaped, supported by a center pole, and intended to house no
                            more than a dozen soldiers. Davis, Rebels and Yankees, 132.
                        
                            19 Bir's brigade was following VanDorn's forces who continued to attack
                            Union posts, including the one at Bolivar, 
                                Tennessee
                            . In the skirmish at Grand Junction, 
                                Tennessee
                            , the Confederates, as Bir notes, were able to take a number of Union prisoners.
                        
                            20 Twenty-one comrades of Bir's 93rd Regiment were among the thousands
                            of Union soldiers who perished in the notorious Confederate prison camp at Andersonville, 
                                Georgia
                            . [State of Indiana], Report of the Unveiling and Dedication of
                                Indiana Monument at Andersonville, 
                                    Georgia
                                
                             (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1909), 91. On Andersonville, see William Marvel, Andersonville:
                                The Last Depot (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N. C., 1994).
                    
                     most unreasonable marches as ther was no good acomplished for
                    Grant Had to Turn backe & made his way to 
                        Memphis
                     at his leesure.21 We Laid at Grand Junction 1 Day and Resumed our
                    march to Lafeyett Tenn & Here we Built quite an Extensiv fort working Hard Every day and
                    after its completion we marched of and Left it this was the 31 of decmbr 1862 and on the 1 of Jan
                    1863 Was the first mail we Received Since we Left 
                        Memphis
                     now nearly 2 Months. But my Heart Beat with Joy when i Received 27 Letters. Our march
                    from Lafeyett to Shilo & then on to Corenth & Here we went in winter quarters
                        again.22 Just below the town in a very Low wet Place & Here is Where
                    our regiment became famous By using a Lonng Pecution Shell for a dogiron this Hapend one Evening
                    Just after Dressperade and all were geting thir supr in Co I of 93 the Shell Let go & you
                    ought to see the Pans & Ketles & coffee Pots up in the air and the company scaterd
                    all ovr the ground & strange to Say it did not Kill a man.
                From this on we were called the bumb Shell Regimant & Co I the Bumb Co. Here we met that
                    Famous 66 Ind camped on a small Rise this was our Second meeting for they came in Camp Noble the day
                    before we Left thay came from Ky,23 While at Corinth Liing in the mud &
                    Had nothing But green Black Jack wood to burn the measels was very bad and i think we Left 40 Pr
                    cent of our Regiment in the Hospital.24 After Liing Here for 8 or 10 days we
                    Started and marched Back to 
                        Memphis
                     or a Station called Bunton Station a few miles from the city and Here We went in wintr
                    quartrs again this time we built up quarters & Was comfortable 
                        
                            21 Historian Allan Nevins shares Bir's opinion of Grant's aborted
                            excursion into 
                                Mississippi
                            : "Grant had not covered himself with glory. He had marched from Grand Junction
                            nearly a hundred miles to 
                                Oxford
                            , and then marched back again. His two months of effort had merely lost valuable
                            supplies and demonstrated that his route was badly chosen." Nevins, The War For
                                the Union: Vol. 2, War Becomes Revolution 1862-1863 (
                                New York
                            , 1960), 383.
                        
                            22 Bir arrived at Corinth, a railroad junction in the northeast corner
                            of 
                                Mississippi
                            , three months after a battle in which Confederate forces failed to dislodge
                            occupying Union troops, October 3-4, 1862.
                        
                            23 The 66th Indiana, part of Second Brigade, Army of 
                                Kentucky
                            , was probably "famous" in Bir's estimation for having fled in disarray during
                            the Battle of 
                                Richmond
                            , August 1862. Welcher, The Union Army 1861-1865, 2: 629-30.
                        
                            24 Like many brigades, the 93rd Indiana lost more men to sickness and
                            delayed death from wounds than to death on the battlefield. One example is provided in
                            Michael W. Beck, "Sickbed Warrior," Civil War Times Illustrated, 39 (May
                            2000), 88. Private Joseph Houshour was mustered into the 93rd Indiana but entered the
                            hospital while the brigade was at the siege of 
                                Memphis
                            ; he spent six months in two Union hospitals and died without fighting.
                    
                    
                    
                        A survey of the Duckport canal. The men in Bir's regiment were among the 3,000 soldiers
                            assigned to the project, which was ultimately abandoned. Courtesy, Library of Congress,
                            Geography and Map Division
                    
                     fixed. Here we Built another fort and done Picket duty and Had
                    some cold wethr we Lay Here untill about the 20 of Feb and we marchd to 
                        Memphis
                     & took the Same old Forest Queen for Helena Ark & we Laid Here for a
                    few days & (Relate Some of the Insedances) after Spending 6 or 8 days Here we got abord of
                    Steamer Molott & Proceeded to What we Called Duck Port at the head of the canall.25 Here we Worked on this canall night & day for some 4 Weeks in water
                    up to our Stomachs of coarse we wer Releived we would Work 6 hours & Rest 18 hours. But Here
                    I Struck oil for 1 was Promoted to Corperel & did not Have to work and the weather Was very
                    Pleasent While we Staid here X (Relate the Jo Zoler & copprbotem Incedant also (Paul
                    gigenart going Swimming).26
                
                And it was Here that we were Put in army Corps & Gen Shurman Took charge of our Corps I think
                    at this time it was the 15 corp allso it was Here that the Expedition of Blockade Runers was maid up
                    about the Early Part of April 63 and it was here that I volenteered to Run the Blockade.27 But there seemed that thay Had more volenteers than thay needed and I was
                    Left with quite a numbr of our brigade but well do I 
                        
                            25 The Duckport canal was part of Grant's spring 1863 Vicksburg
                            campaign. The canal was dug from Duckport at Milliken's Bend on the 
                                Mississippi
                             River "nearly three miles long" west to Willow Bayou. Sherman to Grant, April
                            26, 1863, in The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of
                                the Union and Confederate Armies (128 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1894-1922), Series 1, Volume 24/3 [S# 38], 235, hereafter cited as Official Records. Bir was one of the 1,000 men of Sherman's Fifteenth
                            Corps (in addition to the 2,000 men from Gen. John A. McClernand's Thirteenth Corps)
                            assigned to the project. It was part of the complex system of roads and bayous Grant used to
                            bypass Vicksburg, bring his army down the west bank of the 
                                Mississippi
                            , cross below Grand Gulf, and attack the city from the east. Welcher, The Union Army 1861-1865, 2: 863-64. On the entire campaign, see Michael
                            B. Ballard, Vicksburg: The Campaign That Opened the 
                                    Mississippi
                                
                             (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N. C., 2004); and the Vicksburg National Military Park website, http://www.
                            nps. gov/vick/vcmpgn/vcmpgn. htm.
                        
                            26 Bir was promoted to corporal on April 28, 1863; he was promoted to
                            sergeant in April 1865. "Civil War Muster Cards," Indiana State Archives. Privates Joseph
                            Zoller and Paul E. Guignard, both of New 
                                Albany
                            , were mustered into the army on August 29, 1862. Guignard was mustered out on
                            November 10, 1865, at the end of the war; Zoller died of an unrecorded cause on June 11,
                            1864. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, 6:516-17.
                        
                            27 While Union troops marched south through 
                                Louisiana
                            , Rear Adm. David Dixon Porter began sending his fleet down the 
                                Mississippi
                             River past enemy batteries on April 16. On April 17, Sherman informed First
                            Division commander, Maj. Gen. Frederick Steele, "Seven gunboats and two transports ran the
                            blockade successfully last night." And he noted, "The Forest Queen had one shot in the hull
                            and another through a steam pipe." Official Records, Series 1, Volume 24/3
                            [S# 38], p. 201; see also James M. Merrill, Battle Flags South: The Story of
                                the Civil War Navies on Western Waters (
                                Rutherford
                            , N. J., 1970), 268. On April 30, beginning in the early morning darkness,
                            17,000 of Grant's troops crossed the river at 
                                Bruinsburg, Mississippi
                            .
                    
                    
                    
                        "The Rams 
                                
                                    Switzerland
                                
                             and 
                                
                                    Lancaster
                                
                             Running the Blockade at Vicksburg," sketch by Theodore Davis.
                        
                            Harper's Weekly, April 18, 1863
                     Remembr the night thay Started & How anxious we wached the flashes of the guns as
                    they were Passing and the next morning How we waited for the news and when it came What a cheer Went
                    up all ovr the camp and then our Work on the canall ceased for in a few days we had marching ordrs
                    & we broke up Camp and went to Miligans Bend [Milliken's Bend, 
                        Louisiana
                    ] up the Rivr a few miles & Staid here 2 days and then on the 2 Day of May we
                    marched Back to our old camp and our old canall & followed Down the Buio through Lousiana
                    untill we Reached Port Gibson on this march i think we Passed through the garden Spot of the Earth
                    as far as farming Land is concurned at Grand or apiset Grand Gulf we took the Same Old Forest Queen
                    & erased to Grand Gulf this time the boat was very Shaky for She had Run the Blockade
                    & Had Received many Shots through the diferant Parts of Hur we were Landed Here in the
                    Evening and Eate the Last bit of Hard tack we had for suppr and supose we would get Rations for
                    Breakfast but Early next morning we Had marching Ordrs and were in line Ready to Start when they  dumped 9 Barels of flour for 3 Days Rations & of Coars
                    being Ready to march and no way to take the flour we Pulled out and Left the flour & at this
                    time it was vry dry and Grants Whole army on one Road it mad the dust very deep. So we marched 3
                    days & night without any thing to Eat Except Sow Belly that we had in our Havr sack. Had no
                    forging Here for there was two many men on this Road. But i must Say that i felt firstrat Rate and
                    very Light. It seemed I did not get tireed but the 3 day we went in to camp and Drew a few hardtack
                    and coffee and the boys was Hapy. We camped on a field that the Rebs Had camped on the night before
                    and we could Scratch any where in the Sand and find graybacks and on this campaign is the only time
                    that I Ever Had Any of these Pets alltho Some of the company Kept them all the time.28
                
                On the 12 of May was the Fight of Raynond. We did not get in the fight although very clost to it.29 But it was over in a few minuits and on the night of the 13 it Began to Rain
                    on the morning of the 14 of May we Started out about 2 in the morning and it Thunderd &
                    Lightnend all the Day So Sevre was the clashes that it Brought many to thir nees=Rain Poured down
                    untill about noon this is the day of the Batle of Jackson Miss30 and on our
                    force march all the morning it Had Rained and filled all Low ground With Watr untill many times we
                    had to cary our catridge Boxes on our Sholdr to Keep them out of Watr and may a fellow fell in
                    Places Where thay would almost Drown. As we was Doublequicking in to Line of batle across a old
                    field we Left many a man So Exausted that he could not Pull himself out of the Mud (Ex) (here).
                This was our firs Sevre battle. Had been may Little Brushs & Here it was that I Had a Shell
                    to tare of Parts of Both of my Pant Legs & Soon 
                        
                            28 Graybacks are lice. Fleas and lice were common among all ranks of
                            both armies. Reid 
                                Mitchell
                            , Civil War Soldiers (
                                New York
                            , 1988), 59.
                        
                            29 Lt. Gen. John C. Pemberton, commander at Vicksburg, ordered the
                            forces of Brig. Gen. John Gregg to intercept approaching Union troops, and on May 12 the
                            Confederates took their stand at a creek crossing near Raymond, 
                                Mississippi
                            . Bir's recollection, formed as Sherman's corps passed by, is incorrect-the
                            battle was not "over in a few minuits" but lasted for six hours. With heavy casualties on
                            both sides, Union troops eventually advanced.
                        
                            30 The day after the Battle of Raymond, Gregg had fallen back with his
                            troops to Jackson, 
                                Mississippi
                            . Gen. Joseph E. Johnston, ordered to take command of Confederate forces in the
                            state, arrived and, learning that two Union army corps were approaching and that Gregg had
                            only 6,000 men to defend the city, ordered an evacuation of Jackson under armed protection.
                            After a few hours of fighting on May 14, with the evacuation complete, Confederate forces
                            disengaged and withdrew. Bir's Fifteenth Corps, under Sherman, along with the Seventeenth
                            Corps, commanded by Maj. Gen. James B. McPherson, took possession of the city.
                    
                     after a ball Struck the But of my gun and took of the Stock and
                    it was here that company B of our Regimant Lost 9 men By one Shell and it was Here that a few of our
                    fellows got in an old frame house thinking thay would be safe & thay hadent more than got in
                    and behind it untill there was not Less then Dozan Shells Struck it and if you Evr saw a Scaterment
                    it was at this time the fellows coming out of all openings Windows & doors. By Evening the
                    Rain ceased & So did the Jonies for Jackson was ours. Our regiment went into camp at the
                    West of town and all the boys broke for town & We had a Bonfire all that night So the boys
                    could get away with thir Whisk Tobaco and all Kind of Supplies. I Being a-goodBoy Just got a cople
                    of Hams did not chew tobaco or drink Whisky- when I could not get it-But By 9 oclock that night the
                    Whole of Shurmans Corps Was Drunk if Johnson had came back that Night I think one Regiment could hav
                    taken the Whole army. But will Say that I was Sober as a Judg & cared for the Company.31
                
                For that night my capt had a Diny John full of What he Said was the best He Ever taken and next
                    morning i found it in my canteen & what my canteen did not Hold I filled all of my messis So
                    we had good Whisky to Last us clear to Vicksburg the next morning Capt Began offering Premium for
                    the fellow that got His Whisky.32 I being at this time acting Ordrly Sargent and
                    the Capt Handy man had me to investigate and see if I could not find the fellow. I of Coarse obeyed
                    and after an investigation I told him I could not find any Clew- But I Had some it may not Be as
                    fine as his but I would Share with Him-Early in the morning we had marching Ordrs and we Started out
                    and most of our regiment Had on a Stove Pipe Hat these White Wooly ones and it was a funy Sight.
                    Shurmans army corps Was Detailed to tear up the Railroad and soon after Leaving our Camp we marched
                    out by Brigades and form Line on R R and Stack arms and 2 men to Every tyre. Just turned the track
                    ovr the 
                        
                            31 Union troops burned parts of Jackson and, as Bir notes, looted "all
                            Kind of Supplies." As Bir also recalls, the Fifteenth was detailed to tear up the railroad
                            which connected the city with Vicksburg. Although acts committed while drunk could be
                            punished, drunkenness as such was not illegal for soldiers, and James Robertson notes that
                            standards were infrequently enforced because so many officers, like Bir's captain, also
                            drank when the opportunity arose. Robertson, "Fun, Frolic, and Firewater," 134-36.
                        
                            32 A demijohn was a large jug-shaped bottle often enclosed in protective
                            wicker. The reward offered by the captain was understandable; Robertson, drawing on
                            first-person accounts, describes the whisky commonly drunk by soldiers as varying "between
                            raw, rough, and unknown." Ibid., 135.
                    
                     Length of the army Corps & then Pile up the cross tires
                    and then Pile the Iron Rails across them and Set them afire the Rails would get Red Hot and bend in
                    all Shapes this was the 15 of May. I Supose we turned ovr 10 or 12 miles of Road in this way and
                    then we marched most all night of the 15 and on the 16 Still on to Champion Hill. We did not get in
                    the fight Being in the Resurve.33 We camped on the Batlefield the night of 16
                    and there was many Batle Seens here it near the top of the Hill where we Seen Where they said that
                    Every hors of a Batery was Killed allso we seen Capt I think of 46 Ind Killed with 26 of His men.34
                
                On the morning of the 17 Shurmans Corps was ordrd on a Difrant Rout we went north or up the Black
                    Rivr & so we missed the fight at Black Rivr Bridg on the 17.35 But the
                    night of the 17 we Camped some 20 miles up the Rivr got in camp after Dark & the whole army
                    corps camped in a Large Coton field. We being about the center of the field Went to bed with ordr to
                    be Ready to march at 3 in the morning this was my time to get watr for coffee. I was up before many
                    fires was started & Had no difaculty to get to the Rivr to get watr but when I started back
                    the fires was springing up all ovr the camp and it got me bewildrd and in going back I would Run on
                    fellows Lying on the ground and stumble ovr them and spill watr on them and if i was called a Sun of
                    a bich once I was called it 100 times before i got to my mess & here will Say it Did not
                    take us Long to get coffee for this mess all we had to Eat Except these black Eyed Pease. On the
                    morning of the 18 we Started for our Last days march this being the 18 day Since we Left &
                    Had not Had our Shoes of and Slept on our arms Every night it was Enough to make a man Lousy. So I
                    hav heard it Said that Grant & Shurman Had the criters all so now you cant blame me for
                    having them.
                About noon or maybe Later we Reached the famous Hills around Vicksburg and my Regiment in the advance
                    we came to where we had to throw out Scurmishrs & here Our Regimant Was ordrd to Pile our
                        
                        
                            33 On May 16, 1863, at Champion Hill, midway between Vicksburg and
                            Jackson, Grant won a costly battle against Pemberton.
                        
                            34 According to state records, the only officer of that regiment who was
                            killed that day was First Lt. Joel Ferris of Company F, 46th Indiana. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, 2:163.
                        
                            35 On May 17, retreating Confederate forces tried to hold Black River
                            Bridge but failed to do so. Although the bridge was burned to prevent its use by Union
                            troops, the South suffered much larger casualties in the fight, and more than 1,800 Southern
                            soldiers were captured. The remainder of the force withdrew to Vicksburg.
                    
                     Knapsacks and our all Except we was given 40 Round &
                    Deplored as Scurmishrs & Here the wool began to Rase for we had Heared So much about
                    [Vicksburg and we] could See the monster Work Looming up in front of us. Lucky for us on the 18 they
                    did not Shell us so we stood it Purty well and Scurmishing ovr Hill & through hollows
                    & at Dark we were Withdrawn and Joined our briged in Line Where we Dreamed of the dredfull
                        Tomorow.36 In the morning of the 19 aftr daylight we were in full view of
                    the Reble Work & Strange to Say the Johnies did not fire a gun. I hav often thought that
                    they could Hav Killed Half of our Brigade if they Had opend fire on us. But Soon after Sun up we
                    filed out and advanced Some Distance & took sheltr Just at the top of a hill and Here we had
                    time to meditate for we Lay in Line of batle untill about 2 oclock of the 19. Then it was that the
                    first charge was made. Our Regiment Suported our 6 gun Batery the 1 
                        Ill
                     Batery all Brass Pieces comanded by a Jerman Capten Waterhouse of 
                        Chicago
                     as I Had Forgoten to Say this Batery Remained in our Brigad The Entire 3 years.37
                
                I think the charge all around the Line Started at one time it was a dredfull Sight for from where we
                    Lay we could See the Line on our Right & Left for a Half mile the Worst of it for us was to
                    see the Wounded Caried back Through our Ranks and thir moans & Curses Was manyand where we
                    Lay in Front of our guns we were opposed to Both Sides for Some 6 or 8 of our Regiment Was Killed or
                    Wounderd by our own guns. Some Shells Would Explode Soon after Leaving our guns it was here Just to
                    the Right of our Regimant that Grant & Shurman Stood fully Exposed to the Shots &
                    Shells and viewed the charge Grant Smoking a cigar all the time [I thot to] my self if I had been in
                    thir Boots [how] Soon I would found Shelter from Shot & Shell. [Some] of & in fact
                    most of our men charged up to the brest works and could go no further & we all Remained in
                    our Position untill after dark and then Retired to Shelter we fell back about 50 yard and Remained
                    here untill the 22 of May when the 2 general charge was made this was allso a failure & on
                    the 23 we were all 
                        
                            36 Grant wanted to take Vicksburg quickly. if possible, and ordered an
                            assault on Confederate defenses on the morning of May 19. As Bir goes on to tell, Union
                            troops moved against Stockade Redan and were met with heavy fire, sustaining 1,000
                            casualties that day.
                        
                            37 The 1st 
                                Illinois
                             Light Artillery, Battery E, was commanded by Capt. Allen C. Waterhouse of 
                                Chicago, Illinois
                            . 
                                Illinois
                             Civil War Veterans Database, http://www. sos. state. il. us/Genealogy
                            MWeb/civilwar. html.
                    
                     Put in Our Position & Remained So untill the 4 of
                        July.38 In the meantime from the 23 on we wer Kept Buisy Eather Diging
                    Treanches or Sharpshooting and Picket Duty at night it was one night Son after this that our Company
                    was orderd out on Picket duty and this was the night that Our Picket Lines were to be advanced So as
                    to giv our men a chance to Dig up closer to the Rebs Work and I had charge of 12 men and orderd out
                    to a certin Point in the corn field & had advanced Just as far as intended to go and Just
                    Ready to Squatt Down When we were Surprised by a voly from the Rebles and they were so clost to us
                    that the flash of thir guns Burnt my Hair and others of my Squad & Strange to Say not one of
                    our 12 Was Hurt=but Scared we Was & Dont forget it and Run we did=and Strange to Say 1
                    company of the 95 
                        Ohio
                     that was in the Resurve Had 36 men Killed & Wounded from this volly that missed
                    us. But this company Hapend to be in Range of thir guns=Many Funy Incidents Happend along with our
                    Hard Ships (one Relate) (on Ben Welkey).
                    39 And one night While out on Picket I Steped on a grave of Some of our men that
                    Had been bueried the day after the charge & my foot Went Down in to the Decayed body and the
                    awfull Smell it made me So Sick this Hapend very Frequently to others while out on duty. This Smell
                    was awfull Some nights When on duty. It was on July 1 that Jo Johnson had been concentreting quite a
                    force in the Rear of Grants army and we was Orderd to the Rear to Strengthing the Lines and on the
                    morning of the 4 When Pemberton Surenderd Gen Shurman with his core Started for Johnson we marched
                    all day 4 of July & on the 5 of July we Laid a Pontoon across Black River & our
                    Regiment crossed and Drove the Johnies Back so the hoi could come safely.40 All
                    day on the 5 we were on the Scurmish Line through canebrake thickets & Hot was no name about
                    4 oclock we Drove the Johnies out of thir camp and got Lots of grub 
                        
                            38 Grant attempted a second assault on May 22. When that failed, Union
                            troops settled in for a siege. Pemberton, trapped inside a city full of gradually starving
                            soldiers and civilians, hoped for relief from the only available Confederate forces, those
                            of Gen. Joseph E. Johnston, but was forced by circumstances to surrender on July 4. James
                            McPherson notes that the "capture of Vicksburg was the most important northern strategic
                            victory of the war." McPherson, Battle Cry of Freedom, 637.
                        
                            39 Bir may be referring to Corporal Benjamin Welker of the 23rd Indiana
                            Infantry; see "Civil War Muster Cards," Indiana State Archives.
                        
                            40 McPherson observes that Grant "did not intend to rest on his Fourth
                            of July laurels" but instead ordered Sherman and 50,000 of his troops to pursue Johnston.
                            McPherson, Battle Cry of Freedom, 637.
                    
                     Some of it yet Boiling on hot fires=In the night of the 5 we had
                    a stampeed & there was quite a numbr of our brigade got Killed & Wounded all caused
                    by Some mules Runing through our Lines on the 6 we marched on without much trouble only Litle
                    Scurmishing in front allso on the 7 this night we camped in a very find corn field and the corn was
                    Just Right for Rostingers & it was here on the morning of the 8 one of our company ate 16
                    Large Ears of corn & Swore if the Jonies Killed him that day He would Die with a full
                    Bely=Early the morning of the 8 of July we Started for our Destination for abot 10 oclock we Reached
                    Jackson & By 12 oclock of the Same day we were all in Position for the Sieg which Lasted for
                    8 days.41 Many Funy Incidents Hapend During our fighting Here
                
                    1 in Reguards to the mule we had in our company so Relate)
                    2 about the 64 Pound gun that Played on us
                    3 how the Boys Hustled for thir mony a chuckeluck gm42
                    
                    4 how I was Scared by a mortr Shell
                    5 a Narow Escape undr my Dog tent
                    6 When we Relieved the 49 Ind after the charge
                    Being under fire constently for 8 Days
                
                But on the night Johnston Sent one of His Brass Bands out on or near the Fortification &
                    Surenaded us with Some of the finest music I thought that I Ever herd one of the Pieces that
                    captured my Soul was the Bony Blue Flag43-& while we were charmed by
                    thir musick Johnson was Withdrawing his army and crossed Purl River & Burnt the Bridg
                    Leaving only Enough men to hold the fort untill morning. And on the morning of the 16 we Had No
                    trouble to take the work for we taken only a few Prisonrs and the town was ours. But we did not get
                    as much Whisky & Tobaco & Provisions as we had got in May of same year.
                
                    
                        41 Pursued by Sherman's troops, Johnston retreated to Jackson, 
                            Mississippi
                        , and Union forces once again laid siege to the city. On the evening of June 16 and
                        through the early morning hours of the 17th (Bir's dates are one day off here), with inadequate
                        supplies and numbers to defeat Sherman's forces or hold out indefinitely, the Confederates
                        marched out of the city and retreated across the Pearl River. Occupying Union troops had looted
                        many of the supplies after their first victory, but they nevertheless went on what Michael
                        Ballard calls "another orgy of vandalism" before leaving. Most of Sherman's forces returned to
                        Vicksburg, as Bir relates, and did not pursue Johnston, who retreated northward in the summer
                        heat, destroying potential sources of water for any pursuers. Ballard, Vicksburg, 404-411.
                    
                        42 Chuckaluck is a game played with three dice. Bets are placed on the
                        outcome of each roll.
                    
                        43 Military bands and camp songs were popular with soldiers on both sides.
                        "The Bonnie Blue Flag," according to one historian, was second in popularity only to "Dixie"
                        among Southerners. Robertson, "Fun, Frolics, and Firewater," 124-27.
                
                
                
                    A songsheet for "Bonny Blue Flag." Bir described it as "Some of the finest music I thought that 1
                        Ever herd."
                    Courtesy Library of Congress, Rare Book and Special Collections Division
                
                
                We Remained Here for 3 or 4 days and then the town was given back to Johnson & we marched
                    back towards Vicksburg and went in camp at what Was called Black river Camp we Remained Here Some 3
                    weeks and then we marched up Near Yazo City and camped for 2 or 3 Weeks at Oak Ridg. Here we built
                    another fort and Every morning we woul Hav Long Roll & Doublequick to fort and wate for the
                    Reabs to actacked us but all in vain for thay did not come and it was While in these camps that we
                    wer Put in the 16 army corps & Part of Corps Went up Red Rivr & the Balance went to
                    Chatenuga With Gen Shurman this was Mcarthers 3 Division this Part of our Corps we never Joined any
                    more after our core was Divided44 our 1 Brigade of the 1 Devision was Sent to
                    Memphus for to Recruit up and one man from Each company Sent Home to Recruit for his company. While
                    at Memphus we were called the independent Brigade & Here we Seen Some very Hard Survices for
                    we were out on three diferant Expeditons one of these we marched as far as Moscow Miss &
                    Here old Forest Showed fight and after a Half Days fighting here we had to sneak Back on a force
                    march for Forest Had Drawed us so far from home that he Run Back and took 
                        Memphis
                     & Plaid Havock with things in general45 and on anothr
                    ocasion we marched back to Hollow Springs & Back by the way of Bolivr and back to Memphus on
                    Each of these Expeditions We had fighting to do with Old Forest on one of these ocasions he had our
                    Regiment Surounded & we took Shelter in old house & a large Depot and used as forts
                    to defend ourselvs we Kept Him at bay this way for half of a day and it was here M V Malory and
                    myself while Liing in a Revine Shot 9 Shots Each at Forest on a White Horse & did not Hit
                    him we may Had the buck ague for it looked Like we were good for Andrsonvill.46
                    But finaly the hol of our Brigade Came to our Rescue & we was mastr of the 
                        
                            44 The Sixteenth Corps was organized in December 1862 and temporarily
                            deactivated in November 1864. Its four divisions were stationed around 
                                Memphis
                            , LaGrange, and Corinth until June 1863 when three were sent to reinforce Grant
                            at Vicksburg. From that time until the end of the war, the corps suffered from continual
                            separations and troop shifting, with divisions participating in operations in the Red River,
                            from 
                                Chattanooga
                             to 
                                Atlanta
                            , and at 
                                Nashville
                            . The reorganized corps (February 1865) joined the Army of the Gulf and took
                            part in the siege of Mobile.
                        
                            45 In a daring cavalry raid, Sunday, August 21, Forrest led 1,500 troops
                            into 
                                Memphis
                            , his native city, narrowly missed capturing three Federal generals, and
                            leisurely withdrew. 
                                Shelby
                             Foote, The Civil War: A Narrative (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1958-1974), 3:516-17.
                        
                            46 Bir is referring to Second Lt. Martin V Mallory of Galena, Indiana.
                            Buck ague and its equivalent, buck fever, are defined in Mitford M. Mathews, A
                                Dictionary of Americanisms on Historical Principles (
                                Chicago
                            , 1951), 199, as the "nervous excitement felt by a hunter at the sight of
                        game."
                    
                     Situation. But two Late for us to save our chicken Stews for we
                    were about Ready to Eat our diner & Being in a country Where they wer Plenty we all Had
                    chicken on cooking. But Forests men got our diner insted of us for we had to fall Back to the Town
                    & Depot for Shelter after our brigad came up and we became master of the Situation as we
                    thought Forset Concluded He would Like to get us down in His country a Litle farthr but and Kept
                    agrvating us and finly got us across a Small Rivr in the swamps & here he got in Our Rear
                    and Had us in a very clost Place. Here the Whold Brigade Had to go on Picket Duty and next moring
                    after Some fighting we got out & we Started for Memphus and Forest on our trial Clear back.
                    So it was With us for 4 Expeditions as a Independent Brigade. I think it was done to Keep him from
                    going to Bothr Shurman at Chatanuga these 4 Expeditions was made from the fall of 63 to the 10 of
                    June 64 in these marches it was Estimated that We had marched 13 hundred miles & it began to
                    tell on our Litle Brigade it was the winter of the cold new years that many of you Remember we was
                    in camp at Memphus at this time and when we was not out after Forest we had to do Picket Duty and
                    Provost duty in the city and there was many frozen to death on this cold newyers around Memphus. I
                    having Had another Stripe aded to my arm I was Sargent and Had to go on duty in the city and I Just
                    got so cold that I could hav cried But the tears Would Freese & Break of & so I quit
                    trying to cry. However we did not Patrole the city much that day for we Staid around the salons
                    & drank Tom & gery all day & So we Kept from Freesing to death it was here
                    Soon after this I was on duty with a squad of men & had Ocasion to visit a Dance that was
                    going on & a Fight Started and there was 4 fellows Killed in Less then 2 minuit all that
                    Saved me was the Ladies Runing to me for Protection & thay Piled on me about 6 deep. But I
                    came out all Right.
                This is a Little Side Show now and you Fellows out to tell on me for this. I had a girl in Memphus
                    that I thought a great deal of and thought She Did of me & had many Pleasant chats and many
                    Square meal at the house- But after the war 1 went Down to 
                        Memphis
                     to See hur & She was maried. But I went to See hur all the Same and allso Saw
                    hur Husband and took diner with them. So Endeth this chapter. After Remaining of & on
                    between Expeditions at Memphus untill about May 1 186447 we Started out on our 5
                    Expedition with our Brigade and 2 
                        
                            47 Bir's dates for this campaign are off by approximately one month. The
                            regiment actually began the fifth expedition against Forrest on June 1, 1864; they engaged
                            the Southern troops at
                    
                     negro Regiments and With our 1 
                        Ill
                     Batery & Some of Griersons calvery this time with the intention of wiping up
                    the fields with Forest for He had caused us Enough hardships. But Behold after he had Drawn us as
                    far as he wanted us that is 30 miles South of Corenth at what we called Guntown48 he concluded to wipe us up and I am Safe to Say he did it up Purty Fine for on the 10 Day
                    of May it was very war [m] we marched out Boldly untill about 11 oclock we Began to hear fighting a
                    head & Saw for Severel hours the cavelry was Driving Him Back but about 1 oclock we got Our
                    orders to double quick and for 4 miles we were Run through the hot sun without water untill we came
                    to the Batlefield & as soon as we arived the cave[l]ry was withdrawn & we Run in a
                    thicket and Laid down thought to get Some Breath. But Had Just got down when the Rebs Raised up only
                    about 40 feet of us & began to Pour volly after volly in to us and thay were 10 to our one
                    of us.49 Our Leiutanant cornal went down from firs volly With 7 Bullets through
                    him all so our ajutant Killed Dead & i thought Evry body was Killed.50
                    But as for myself I will say I felt Just as though they could not Hit me & Our Regiment
                    Stood thir ground for at Least 20 minuits untill we were Flanked & had to fall back or Be
                    taken Prisnr and the Rebles Had charged our batery and taken it and turned on us ther was not a hors
                    of our batery that was not shot down.
                
                    Guntown on June 10 and made their stand on June 11; the regiment fought at Tupelo on July
                        13-15 and returned to 
                            Memphis
                         in early August.
                    
                        48 Brig. Gen. Samuel D. Sturgis engaged Gen. Nathan 
                            Bedford
                         Forrest at Guntown (also known as Brice's Cross Roads or as Tishomingo Creek) on
                        June 10, 1864. Forrest's 3,500 defeated 7,800 Federals and chased them the following day,
                        capturing 16 guns, 250 vehicles, and 184 horses. "For God's sake," the dispirited Yankee
                        commander exclaimed, "if Mr. Forrest will let me alone I will let him alone!" Foote, The Civil War, 3:371.
                    
                        49 The "Report of Col. De Witt C. Thomas, Ninety-third Indiana Infantry,"
                        June 16, 1864, Official Record, Series I, Volume 39/1 [S# 77], 111, validates
                        Bir's recollection: "About 11 o'clock word came to me that it was necessary for me to move up at
                        quick time; that the cavalry had been engaged and the enemy had turned their left flank. This
                        was about three miles from the field of battle …. In a few minutes we received a fire, and upon
                        looking up I saw men advancing upon my line, dressed in our uniform and carrying the Union flag,
                        but firing upon us as they advanced. Some of my men, upon receiving the fire, commenced firing
                        upon them. Myself and Lieutenant-Colonel Poole, stopped the firing, supposing, of course, it was
                        our own men, when they (the rebels) poured into my ranks a murderous fire, thinning my ranks at
                        a fearful rate. I then gave the command to my men ‘to fire’."
                    
                        50 Lt. Col. John W. Poole, from Medora, was mustered into the regiment on
                        September 1, 1863. He was wounded and captured at Brice's Cross Roads on June 10 and died of
                        starvation at Macon, 
                            Georgia
                        , March 5, 1865. The regiment's adjutant, Irving Moody, was killed in action on June
                        10. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, 3:119.
                
                
                In this fight is where I Lost my dearest friend I had on Earth he was Shot while I was trying to Leed
                    Him of the field. He being shot in the Leg first & 2 time through the Body He and I Raised
                    togethr & Inlisted togethr and slep together up to this time. Had told me the night Before
                    that he would be killed & He was Kill Right at the Start of the fight.
                This comrads name Was William Atkins-I could not cary out his wishes in Reguards to some Personal
                    Propety about Him which he had told me to Send to the diferent Persons at Home for as I said we held
                    our Position for some times after this. But had to finaly fall back. Here allow me to Say while at
                    the Encampment at 
                        Washington
                     D. C Last fall I had the Privelage to attend a Reunions of our Corps51 and in many good Speechs I hered in Prais of the corps one from an Oficer Who Seen all of
                    the fight at this Place Said in all of his army Life He had not Seen a Regiment Stand fire Like the
                    93 Ind Did at Guntown with the over Whelming forces against us this oficer did not Belong to the
                    Regimant Either- So the few of us that attended this Reunion was well Repaid for our Long Journey to 
                        Washington
                     if we had not seen or heard any thing Else.
                At the time of Starting on this campaign our Recruiting Oficer Had all come back with Recruits and it
                    Swelled our Regiment to about 4 hundred & we Reterned with 70 men the balance Killed wounded
                    & taken Prisners.
                After the fight on the Evenig of the 10 we Started Back & marched all night and in the
                    morning about sun up crossed the Tallahachie River and thought we wer all Right but in a few minuits
                    the Reble calvry came charging on us from all sides & we had to fight our way out the Best
                    we could and all day Long we marched with the Rebles on us Every few miles untill we were completly
                    worn out it was along in the Evening of the 11 of May that a Squad of 8 of us concluded that we
                    would make a stand and die right here we did so and fired Several Shots in the charging col and of
                    corse could not Keep them [B]ack for thay Soon Surounded 
                        
                            51 Bir's reference to the encampment "Last fall" dates the memoir to
                            early or mid-1893. The Twenty-sixth National Encampment was held on September 19-23 in 
                                Washington
                            , D. C., "on the beautiful mall south of the President's grounds, known as the
                            ‘White Lot’" (now known as the Ellipse). It was probably at the reunion of the Sixteenth
                            Corps, held on the evening of the 20th, that Bir heard the 93rd Regiment praised for its
                            stand at Guntown. Souvenir Program G. A. R. 26th National
                                Encampment, 
                                    Washington
                                , D.C. September 20th [sic], 1892, (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1892), 1, 2. Thanks to Will Elsbury of the Library of Congress humanities and
                            social sciences division for the reference.
                    
                     us and all was Prisners of war.52 But will
                    Say here that we Killed 11 men Right Here for I Saw them and Dont Know how many more we wounded this
                    is the only time that I could Sware that I Killed a Reble this hapend Some 20 miles South Lafeyett 
                        Tenn
                     and as I was a Prisner I dont Know how the hoi of the Regiment got Back to Memphes But
                    can Say Somewhat demoralised.
                After I was taken Prisner we were allowed to Rest Probebly a half hour when we Started for Anderson
                    vill as the guards told us. Here I hapend to get in conversation with one of the guards and he was
                    very agreable at Least to me for he allowed me to Ride His horse which was a great Relief for me for
                    we Had been on the march for about 42 hours Without Sleep Rest and only Twist [twice] had we Eaten
                    anything in all this time & this is not all we marched all night and untill about 8 oclock
                    next morning when our guard Stoped at a Revine to take a wash and told us to Sit down to Rest
                    & here is wher I gave them the Slip and got away from them=Here tell the Story) How I was
                    Rescued and Kept By a negro & How I seen them Shoot Down our men without asting them to
                    surrendr & How I was Kept for 3 days in forests camp & How far I marched this night
                    that I Left & how I took the Back track and how far I marched and got Back to 
                        Memphis
                     & How I looked 1 Reachd our comand after Dark of the 17th of May &
                    found that the Regiment Had marching Orders & would Leav on the 18.
                By this time we were Put in the 16 corps & A. J Smith53 had come back
                    from the Red Rivr campaine54 and he was ordrd Out after [0]ld Forest &
                    we well Knew if he Evr caut up with him he would Lick him shure & So 1 was Ready to start
                    out with the compny. But the doctor 
                        
                            52 June 11, 1864. Bir was one of 1,623 Union troops captured.
                        
                            53 A career soldier, Andrew Jackson Smith was cavalry commander at the
                            Battle of Corinth; was promoted to brigadier general in March 1862; and took part in actions
                            including the capture of 
                                Memphis
                            , the siege of Vicksburg, the defeat of Nathan 
                                Bedford
                             Forrest at Tupelo, the Battle of 
                                Nashville
                            , and the siege of Mobile. Ezra J. Warner, Generals in Blue: Lives
                                of the Union Commanders (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , La., 1964), 454-55.
                        
                            54 Fearing the French threat in Mexico, Lincoln ordered military
                            operations in 
                                Texas
                            , although Grant, Sherman, and Banks were opposed. In the original plan, Banks
                            was to move up Bayou Teche with 17,000 troops, Sherman was to send 10,000 up the Red River
                            from Vicksburg under direction of A. J. Smith, while Maj. Gen. Frederick Steele was to send
                            15,000 south from 
                                Little Rock
                            . Both Banks and Steele started late, the latter so late that he played no part
                            in the operations. Banks and Smith were routed at Sabine Cross Roads on April 8 but repulsed
                            their Confederate pursuers the next day at Pleasant Hill. After a defeat at 
                                Alexandria, Louisiana
                            , May 1-8, the Federals abandoned the campaign.
                    
                     would not Let me go I Even ast him to Let me Stradle one of the
                    canons But it was no go for I was Just able to walk and I was Put in charge of a Squad & Did
                    Provost duty untill the Regiment Returned.
                This time A. J. Smith liked to wiped Forest out of Existance in a 2 Days Fight at Tupelow Miss55 Just 30 days from the fight at Guntown.
                Left out of my First [?Paper]56 only forgot to Say that Our Batery that Was
                    captured at guntown By Forester Was Retaken By Our brigade at [the] First Days Fight at Tupelow Miss
                    on June 10 of Same Yeare all in good order Jus 1 month time. So I supose Forest did not get much
                    good out of them. Our Capt Waterhouse Had come out in this fight with only 4 guns and these was a
                    small Paret gun.57 So he was so glad to get His guns bac[k] they Say He would
                    cry a while and the[n] Laugh.
                For it was 10 of June After this A J Smith Returned to Memphus this is the only time I was absent
                    from my Regiment the Regiment got back about the 1 of July 64 and after Resting a few weeks we wer
                    Ordrd to draw 3 Day Rations & we marched to the Rivr and Embarked on Steamers and Started
                    down the River & up White River to St Charles Ark where we got of and
                    camped hire for severel week on the Bluffs here we had nothing to do and the wether was very Warm
                    & we would go in Swiming to Keep cool & the Sun Burnt our backs untill the Scin
                    would Peel off. We Borded the Steamers again & went up to Duvall Blufs & marched to
                    Brownsvill near Letle Rock & camped here for a few Days & then it was that we
                    Started on our famous march after Price through 
                        Arkansas
                     & Over the Iron Mountain.58 (Relate goas Story We Kept
                    Right on the Heels of Price 
                        
                            55 On July 13, the Confederate force under S. D. Lee moved to attack A.
                            J. Smith's command occupying Tupelo, 
                                Mississippi
                            . The Federals held on the 13th and 14th hut began to retreat on the morning of
                            the 15th. The Confederates pursued, and Bell and Crossland engaged the Federal rear guard
                            but were repulsed. Forrest was wounded while organizing for another attack.
                        
                            56 Some time later Bir wrote this paragraph, numbered it page 22 and
                            inserted the page between the original manuscript pages 22 and 23. The paragraph has been
                            placed at this point by the editors.
                        
                            57 Designed by Union officer R. P. Parrott of 
                                New Hampshire
                            , the Parrott gun was a rifled, muzzle-loading cannon ranging from 3-inch
                            (10-pound shell) to 10-inch (250-pound projectile). The gun was more accurate and had twice
                            the range of smoothbore cannon, with the smaller 20-pound Parrott (3.67-inch) being
                            effective at about 2,500 yards.
                        
                            58 In August 1864, Gen. Sterling "Pap" Price left 
                                Princeton, Arkansas
                            , in an attempt to recover 
                                Missouri
                             for the Consederacy. Gathering troops and supplies along the way, he
                        entered
                    
                     for one night we camped on Iron Mountain and could See Prices
                    camp Below us we were marched to Cape Girardeau Mo & here we took a Steamer for 
                        St. Louis
                     & from there to Jefferson City Mo So as to head of Price but the River Was So
                    Low that we would often [get] of the Boat & march around so the Boat Co [uld get of the]
                        Bars59 and by this delay when we [got to Jeffer] son city Price was Just
                    Passing thro[ugh. Had] helped Him Self of such as He wanted & Skiped out and us after him we
                    followed him marching night & Day allmost within 8 miles of Kanses City here we Run on Price
                    & gave him a Respectfull thrashing & here the Infantry was allowed to Rest one day.
                    I will Say that on this march that it was Said that the Infantry Stood the Hard marching Better then
                    the calvery or the Baterys for it was on Ever day Seen to see 6 or 8 mules & Horses that
                    gave out & were Left dead or turned Loos to Die this was about the midle of November 64 we
                    marched Back to St Louis on this march we Waded the Osage Rivr and another River that I hav forgoten
                    the name of after marching through snow 11 Inches deep all day the water was so cold that when we
                    got across we were all num for the River was 1/2 mile wide we were 8 day marching to St Louis the
                    distance was about 280 miles at St Louis we were taken to the Old Jefferson Baracks60 and staid Here about one week and had a Jolly good time for we Did not walk when we went to
                    town we would Press in a St car & Promis the conductor we would Pay Him Pay day. But Pay day
                    did not come for we got marching orders and marched to 
                        
                            
                                Missouri
                             on September 19 with 12,000 men (one third of whom were not armed) and 14 guns.
                            The diversion of A. J. Smith's troops precluded his attack of 
                                St. Louis
                             and Price went west, passing by Jefferson City while occupying Hermann,
                            Boonville, 
                                Glasgow
                            , and Sedalia in October. As troops under the command of Smith and Gen. Alfred
                            Pleasanton pursued Price from the east, Gen. James G. Blunt and Gen. Samuel R. Curtis
                            brought troops from 
                                Kansas
                            , and 20,000 Federals engaged 9,000 Confederates at 
                                Westport, Missouri
                            , on October 23. Price turned back, fighting rear guard skirmish actions before
                            returning his 6,000 survivors to 
                                Arkansas
                            . Criticized for "glaring mismanagement and distressing mental and physical
                            military incapacity," Price escaped to Mexico. Boatner, Civil War
                            Dictionary, 671.
                        
                            59 The SS Missionary being roped through shallows of the 
                                Tennessee
                             River illustrates the procedure in William C. Davis, ed., The
                                Image of War:1861-1865: Vol. 5, The South Besieged (
                                New York
                            , 1983), 45.
                        
                            60 Jefferson Barracks has been the destination of soldiers of many
                            generations since its first establishment as a frontier fort in 1826. Jefferson Davis,
                            Robert E. Lee, George H. Thomas, Ulysses S. Grant and soldiers of the Spanish-American War
                            served there. In World War I it became "a clearing house for recruits from 12 states of the
                            Middle West," and in the war years of 1941-1945 it became "the most important Air
                            Replacement Center in the 
                                United States
                            ." Robert B. Roberts, Encyclopedia of Historic Forts: The Military,
                                Pioneer, and Trading Posts of the 
                                    United States
                                
                             (
                                New York
                            , 1988), 459.
                    
                     the River and took a Steemer & Steemed down the Missppi
                    to Cairo we wer Landed at Cairo for a few hours & Here Smiths garilles took the town at
                    Least we took any thing we wanted for the town or the Buissness men were all Jews & we had
                    no Love for them.61 You could See all Kinds of goods going to the difrent Boats
                    & Diferant Regiments. I Did not want much So I just took one Bar [el of eggs] as they Had
                    been Packed for shipment the Jews [seen A J Smi] th coming & they Flocked around [him
                    &] ast him to Send guards to Protect [them & he j] ust told them that his men was
                    Hungry & he guest thay would not take any more than thay Could Eat & tiped his Hat
                    and went on. I Seen Some of our men Catch a Hog and throw it through a Large Show window62= I did Not Hav any money or I Should Hav Paid for that Barel of Eggs I did
                    ast him what they were worth. But I Hav forgoten the Price But it was 25 or 30 dolers we did Expect
                    that we would get in trouble about this Doings But we did not. Once before at Nepolion [Napoleon, 
                        Arkansas
                    ] on the Mississippie Riv our brigade Raidied 2 Jew Sutters and had our Pay held back
                    for 4 month. But finaly we Proved ourselvs Inocent and we got our money we Left Cairo and Started up
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     Rivr to Paducky 
                        Ky
                     and after Stoping here a few hours we went up the Cumbrland Rivr to Nashvill 
                        Tenn
                    
                    63 this was about the 2 or 3 of Dec 1864 we arived here Just in time to Keep
                    Hood from marching in 
                        
                            61 Throughout the war, both sides distrusted Jewish merchants. On
                            December 17, 1862, Grant issued "General Orders No. 11": "The Jews, as a class violating
                            every regulation of trade established by the Treasury Department and also Department orders,
                            are hereby expelled from the Department." John Y. Simon, ed., The Papers of
                                Ulysses S. Grant (26 vols., Carbondale, Ill., 1967-), 7:50. Lincoln rescinded the
                            order and Grant later acknowledged his error, although he remained suspicious that Jews
                            traded with both sides. John Jones, a clerk in the Confederate War Department, believed that
                            Jewish merchants maintained vast stockpiles of food and supplies in and around 
                                Richmond
                            . These "Jewish extortioners," Jones believed, "injured our cause more than the
                            armies of Lincoln." John B. Jones, A Rebel War Clerk's Diary at the Confederate
                                States Capital (2 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1866), 1:196, 221; as cited in David Herbert Donald, Jean H. Baker, and
                            Michael E Holt, The Civil War and Reconstruction (
                                New York
                            , 2001), 439, 458
                        
                            62 The choice of a hog was an obvious religious insult. Religious
                            differences were often used by soldiers to justify their treatment of Jews. Thomas 
                                Wise
                             Durham of the 11th Indiana recalled that in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , "‘The Wandering Jew with his cheap ‘pure gold’ watches and jewelry was greatly
                            in evidence. They had rich picking for a while but the boys soon got onto their racket and
                            when one would appear in camp with his bogus jewelry, you would soon hear some fellow yell
                            ‘here is a Christ killer,’ and that was the signal for the boys to gather in. They would
                            take charge of mister Jew, confiscate his jewelry and give him such punishment that he would
                            never want to return to camp again." Three Years With Wallace's Zouaves: The
                                Civil War Memoirs of Thomas 
                                    Wise
                                 Durham, ed. Jeffrey L. Patrick (Macon, Ga., 2003), 55.
                        
                            63 After giving up 
                                Atlanta
                             on September 1, Gen. John Bell Hood attempted to draw Sherman north again by
                            threatening his supply line and attacking 
                                Nashville
                            . Sherman pursued as far as
                    
                    
                    
                        The steps of the 
                                Nashville, Tennessee
                            , state capitol with cannon. Photograph by George Barnard.
                        Courtesy Library of Congress, Prints and Photographs Division
                    
                    
                        The Union outer line at the siege of 
                                Nashville, Tennessee
                            . Photograph by George Barnard.
                        Courtesy Library of Congress, Prints and Photographs Division
                    
                     to Nashvill for the Same day Thomases army came in and Hood
                    Right after him yet Thomas army came in in good Order and I Hav no doubt that thay would Hav stoped
                    Hood Eaven if the 16 army core had not Been there64 we went in camp on the North
                    Side of a Large Hill & Began throwing up Breast works the Same day & a few day after
                    this wood was very Scarce we had nothing But green Hack wood. Our Regiment was Sint out to drve
                    Hoods Pickets Back So we could get some dry wood to burn this was done on Several ocasions in our
                    corps about the 12 & 13 & 14 of Dec it was Bitter cold & we Suferd very much
                    from cold Here untill the morning of the 15 it was Some warmer & we had ordrs to Hav our
                    Breakfast at 4 oclock & Be Ready to moove on the 15.65 The 72 
                        Ohio
                     Time Expired that is those that did not veternise & Had the Privelage to go
                    Home. But it was Said that Every man voted to Stay with the Regiment and see them out of th[e] Bade
                    & thay did and quite a numbr of them were Killed on the 15 and 16 for this is the date of
                    the batle= we were marched out Soon aftr day Light & Had not gone far untill we were in the
                    midst of the Fight. Erly in the morning our Col Had His Horse Shot from under Him the 12 Pounder
                    Shill Enterd the Horses Breast and went through the Horse this hapend not over 1/4 of mile from our
                    camp and this was about as Hot a shelling as we Evr got it was in an old field and Just Back of our
                    Regiment 
                        
                            
                                Chattanooga
                             but recalled his troops and began his "March to the Sea." Hood delayed for
                            three weeks until Forrest arrived, the pair moving their forces northward in late October.
                            The Confederates maneuvered Union troops out of positions at 
                                Pulaski
                             and Spring Hill in November, and regrouping Federals took up position at 
                                Franklin, Tennessee
                            . Nearly 27,000 Confederate troops attacked the slightly larger force (27,939)
                            on November 30, and while the Federals lost fewer men, they withdrew toward 
                                Nashville
                             under cover of darkness and were joined there by A. J. Smith's three divisions
                            and 5,200 casuals from 
                                Chattanooga
                            , all under the command of Gen. George Henry Thomas, "The Rock of Chickamauga,"
                            who been strengthening the city's fortifications since taking October 3. Welcher, The Union Army 1861-1865, 2:600; and James Lee McDonough, 
                                
                                    Nashville
                                : The Western Confederacy's Final Gamble (
                                Knoxville
                            , Tenn., 2004), 244-52. Bir probably confused the arriving casuals with Thomas's
                            forces; however, he recalls with remarkable detail his part in Thomas's dramatic and
                            overwhelming defeat of Hood's army.
                        
                            64 After 
                                Franklin
                            , Hood's forces were too weak to attack 
                                Nashville
                             and took up position outside the city. Thomas delayed because of the freezing
                            spell and the need to make preparations. In 
                                Washington
                            , Secretary Stanton and Grant grew impatient and ordered Thomas to attack. When
                            he continued to delay, Grant prepared to go personally to 
                                Nashville
                             to assume the command; Grant, Personal Memoirs, 2:382-83.
                        
                            65 Early on the morning of December 15, Thomas's Federals, numbering
                            more than 49,000, began to press heavily on the Confederates, with 23,000 troops, and by the
                            end of the day they had forced the Rebels out of their position and pushed them steadily
                            back.
                    
                     there was an old woods Pasture & in a few minuts half of
                    the Limbs of the trees Had been shot of. Explenation of my situatio[n]. From this on for 2 days we
                    were in the front and under heavy fire. Here it was that I saw the first cavelry charge it was a
                    grand Sight I dont Know what comand it was But the 9 Penn was amongst them after this charge we were
                    ordrd forward and Soon came up in a corn field and Behold we were in front of a 6 gun Batery
                    & them behind Breast works and we was not ovr 150 yards from them and thay opend these 6
                    guns on us with grape Shot & Here Our col was Shot of His Horse with a grape shot &
                    takin of the field for Dead. But finaly He came to and after months Recovrd. While in this field it
                    was that many of us tried to Hide Behind corn stocks and I for one worked hard with my Bayont
                    & fingers to make a Hole to Hide in we Lay in this Pas for Some 5 minuits But it seemed to
                    me it was 5 hours. But finely the ordrs came to charge the Batery and it did not take the 2 ordr to
                    make us go for we were anxious to get out of this Position we Soon Had Posetion of the 6 guns and
                    many Bade flags and about 15 hundred Prisoners this was the first charge & we did not go
                    more then 3 hundred yards untill we were Prepared for the 2 charge this time it was a Large fort
                    Built on a very High Hill and very steep and in this fort i think there was 24 Pieces of artillery
                    some Heavy guns we charged up this Hill and took these guns and many Prisners and more flags it was
                    in these Rifle Pits that I saw Dead Rebs three deep & many woundid when we went ovr the
                    Works the Jonies would Hist thir Hankerchef & Pieces of Shirt tails and all Kind of Signs of
                    surendr & would beg Pitiously for us not to Hurt them here 1 saw one of our men thrust a
                    bayonett through a Reb While he was beging to be spared this Riled me to the core for this Same
                    fellow Belonged to our company & I knew He was not a good Soldier and after this 1 Saw the
                    same an Shott [down] a Jew Because he would not credit Him=
                In the first day fight our brigade took 4000 Priseners & Some 30 Pieces of artillery
                    & I dont Know how many flags along in the Evening after the 2 charge we were advancing on
                    toward Shies Hill66 through the Woods and Passing Some cavelry troops when a
                    canon Bal[l] cut a man in two Right alongside of me it Struck him in the upr Parts of his bowls and
                    His Body fell over and it seemed to me that He stood on His feet 
                        
                            66 Known before the battle by the name of its near resident Felix
                            Compton, Compton's Hill became known as Shy's Hill in honor of Lieut. Col. William L. Shy of
                            the 20th 
                                Tennessee
                             who, refusing to surrender, was shot through the head by Union troops;
                            McDonough, 
                                
                                    Nashville
                                , 255.
                    
                     Some Seconds Before the Lower Part fill and His Livr &
                        Lights67 I could see them trembling & I well Remembr how it made me
                    shudr.
                We Lay in Line of bade at the Base of the Hill and near by a Farm House and I got a Ham there that I
                    thought was the best 1 Evr Eat we were not allowed any fires on our Line So we Laid down but did not
                    Sleep much for it was cold Without fiers. But [it] might havent Been the Reason I did not Sleep
                    there was a Wounded Reb clost to where I Lay that Had been Shot through the Head and when he would
                    breath his Brain woud ouz out and this so Worked me that this might Been the caus of me not
                    Sleeping- Early in the morning we was ordrd forward & throwed out Scurmishr or Sharpshootr
                    & we Laid Exposed to the Fire from Early in morning untill about 3 oclock in the Evening
                    With a Regular Artillery Duel for 1 think it was the Heaviest firing I Heared During my surviss
                    Vixburg not Ex we Laid Between the Two Fires and it seemed to me We Lay Here a week. But about 3
                    oclock things began to Look Like Buisness and we was orderd Back to the Regular Line & Here
                    we was told By A. J Smith Our core comandr that he Was autherised By Jen Thomas to give the Brigade
                    a medle that charged and would take Shies Hill this was the main fort on the Line and he told us
                    that He had selected Our Brigade to do the work and He Knew it would be well Done.68 Our Brigade was composed of the following Regiments 72 & 95 
                        Ohio
                     114 Ill & 10 Minesota & 93 Ind we made the charge and took the Hill But
                    will say this was a Jeneral charge all along the Line. But we was the first to break thir Lines as
                    we did not hav so far to go as those did on 
                        
                            67 The lungs of slaughtered livestock were referred to as lights, and
                            soldiers used the term colloquially on the battlefield. Steven M. Stowe, email to editors,
                            December 1, 2004.
                        
                            68 Under darkness, Hood regrouped his forces in a short line between
                            Shy's Hill on the Confederate left (west) and Overton Hill on the right (east). On the
                            morning of December 16, Union troops made an unsuccessful attempt to take Overton Hill. In
                            the early afternoon, Brig. Gen. John McArthur of 
                                Illinois
                             observed that the Rebels had taken up a poor position on Shy's Hill and that
                            their guns would not be able to fire effectively upon advancing infantry. McArthur had no
                            orders to advance and sent a messenger to his commanders advising that he would attack the
                            hill in five minutes unless he was ordered not to do so. Thomas wanted to coordinate efforts
                            for a maximum assault, but his message did not reach McArthur in time. The eighteen guns in
                            McArthur's three batteries opened fire while the Union infantry advanced in two lines: the
                            first composed of the 114th 
                                Illinois
                            , 93rd Indiana, and 10th 
                                Minnesota
                            ; the second of the 72nd and 95th 
                                Ohio
                            . In little more than one hour, the Confederate left was crushed and the entire
                            line retreated. McDonough, 
                                Nashville
                            , 244-52. McDonough contradicts Bir's memory that Smith was with his troops at
                            the charge, placing him instead with McArthur.
                    
                     our Left where the ground was Purty Level.69
                    Our colors went down three times in this charge & the Staff was Shot of Two times after the
                    3 men was wounded I Caried the colors ovr the works this was our third charge we made at this fight
                    & here we had so many Prisners we Hardly Knew what to do with them. Our brigade came out
                    with But few Killed and wounded with the Exception of the 10 Minasota they Lost very Heavy. This
                    Charge all along the Lines Demoralised Hoods Whole army and we could See them Runing for Dear
                        Life70 the few that got away we followed them a few miles and went in camp
                    Soon after dark this Ended the 2 Days fight of Nashvill on the 17 of Dec we followed up Hood untill
                    we got to Pulasky Tenn & Here we Left the maine forces & we marched to the Tennesee
                    River. I dont Know whethr I am Right or not But I think we Struck the Rivr at Brownsvill or
                    Brownstown there was no town Left Here only a few of Shurmans Tumbstons or monuments as we used to
                    call them71 on this march I wore the Souls clean off my shoes & Had to
                    Rap Old Rags around my feet to Protect them from the Limestone Rock & mud and snow for aftr
                    we Left Pulasky it Snowed Severel Inches of snow & these Pikes we had marched ovr were
                    terbely cut up By Both armys it Looked Like marter mixed with cement we Reached Tennesee River about
                    the 6 or 7 of January 1865 & Here was what we used to call a Musqueto fleet wating for us
                    and we B[ord] one of these with Our Regiment & was Sent in advan of the Flag ship to Drive
                    the Jonies from the banks. Often we were fired into & the Boat Would shell the woods and we
                    would Proceed and at night We would Land and Put out 
                        
                            69 Of the terrain, James McDonough writes, "The hill was so steep at
                            places that the ascent required all the strength one could put forth, together with
                            assistance from grasping bushes, vines, saplings and limbs, pulling one's self up by them";
                            and concerning the first regiment to reach the top, "Long after the last gun of the war had
                            been fired, Union veterans, particularly those of the four 
                                Minnesota
                             regiments in the front lines of McArthur's brigades, argued about which
                            regiment first gained the Rebel works. Regardless of which … may have deserved recognition …
                            the Yankee assault, from beginning to end, consumed very little time," perhaps not much more
                            than ten minutes. McDonough, 
                                
                                    Nashville
                                , 248, 252.
                        
                            70 Twenty-year-old James L. Cooper of the 20th 
                                Tennessee
                             recalled that Confederate forces on the hill "had no entrenching tools and
                            could make but little preparation." When the Union artillery opened fire Cooper believed
                            that "[a]t one time the fire of at least twenty guns were concentrated upon our position"
                            and that "[i]f a man raised his head over the slight works, he was very apt to lose it…. It
                            was almost a miracle that anyone escaped." Cited in McDonough, 
                                
                                    Nashville
                                , 253.
                        
                            71 Frequently the only thing remaining after Union soldiers set fire to
                            a city or plantation were the blackened brick chimneys, which came to be known as "Sherman's
                            monuments."
                    
                    
                    
                        A watercolor by Ensign D. M. N. Stouffer of the Union naval ship 
                                Alexandria
                            , one of the 
                                Mississippi
                             squadron under the command of Adm. David Dixon Porter.
                        Courtesy Library of Congress, Manuscript Division
                     Pickets.72 Our boys and the Mereners Could not agree very well for we
                    took charge of the Boat & when we Landed at Pitsburg Landing73 most of
                    the boys Had a merene cap or Suit of Some Kind aftr this we was marched to East Port & We
                    suposed we was going in Winter quarters or we was told So and we went to work and built Houses out
                    of Pine Seplins & was comfortably fixed we allso Built Large Brest works all around us and
                    would Hav been fixed to live if we would hav had any thing to Eat. But we Lived Here for about two
                    weeks on a Pint of corn & this was crushed cob and all. Some of the Boys would make Ly
                    Hominy out of thirs and got along Purty well. But the Lazy shiftless good for nothing fellows that
                    Did the army no good as a generel thing would 
                        
                            72 Secretary of the Navy Gideon Welles built the Union navy from 23
                            ships in 1861 to 641 ships of all types by the end of the war. In addition to blockade
                            action along the coasts, the navy also played "a vital role in the logistics that made it
                            possible for the Federals to use the Western rivers for lines of operations"; Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 583. See also Donald L. Canney, Lincoln's Navy: The Ships, Men and Organization, 1861-65 (
                                Annapolis
                            , Md., 1998).
                        
                            73 The shipping port on the west bank of the 
                                Tennessee
                             River adjacent to the area of the April 6, 1862, Battle of 
                                Shiloh
                            .
                    
                     Parch thir corn and Eat it all in one meal & we Had Some
                    men that could not walk to the Rivr to take the Boat my mess fared Better for I and one of my mess
                    concluded we would go to market & we Did and we found about 1 mile from our Picket Post
                    & Poor Lone calf & a old Woman to Begin for us not to Kill that calf for that was
                    all She had Left on hur Place. But we had no time to Parly for across the field we Saw a Squad of
                    men coming & we Killed the calf and did not giv it time to Kick for we tied its Legs togethr
                    and Hung it on one of our guns and Left in a Hury. But none two soon for before we [got] very far
                    the Johnies was cuting the weed all around us with thir Shots. But we held on to our meet and finly
                    came to our Picket Post allmost Exaust[ed] we had Shiped out between Posts going out but we did not
                    try to slip in & here we got in trouble again. But we comprimisid By giving up Part of our
                    meet & went on. So we fared Purty well while the othr boys ate thir Parched corn &
                    Hominy we had meat-While Here the Horses & mules fared Worse then the men for the Boys would
                    Steel the corn from the mules & Horses and Eat it.
                It was Here Gen A J Smith called to His ordely and said you Damed Sunsofabitch go and bring my
                    Hor[se] the ordely went and came up to the gen and Saluted Him & Said Here you Old
                    Sunofabich is your Horse & the gen Saluted Back & Reed the Horse & smiled
                    and told the ordely to go in to Hd querters and get a Drink.74
                
                About the Last of January we marched to the River & our Brigade & 6 gun batery was
                    all Loded on on[e] Boat the Old Sterner Missippi a very Large Boat75 and we
                    Steamed Down the Tennesee Rivr and of Coarse there was Lots of Wild Rumors we were going to the army
                    of the Potomack. But when we Reached the 
                        Ohio
                     Rivr we Turned down Streem and in a few hours Was Ankerd out in the Rivr at Cairo. So
                    we did not get ashore this time for we had Raided the town twice before and A J Smith Did not
                    Propose that we Should Do so again.
                After a few hours Stop we continued our way down the 
                        Mississippi
                     River when We Reached Vicksburg we were marched Back of the town 
                        
                            74 A Gen. George S. Patton,Jr., moment. "Small and brusque, [A.J. Smith]
                            was popular with his men and respected by his superiors." Boatner, Civil War
                                Dictionary, 768.
                        
                            75 The "Old Sterner Missippi" that carried Bir down the 
                                Tennessee
                             River in January 1865 bore the name of the historic sidewheeler 
                                
                                    Mississippi
                                
                             which had been blown up during the night of March 14, 1863, as Admiral Farragut's
                            ships ran the gauntlet of shore batteries at Port Hudson. Merrill, Battle Flags
                                South, 263.
                    
                     and went into camp on Some of our old Bade grounds of Coarse we
                    Went all Round the Lines and saw all the Sights for thay were all There as we had Left them-76 While in camp here the Boats that the army came on was being Scrubed
                    & cleaned and after 3 day camping Here we was marched Back to our Same quarters and
                    continued our way down the Missippi to Newarleans and Here we were marched of to the old Jackson
                    Batlegro[und] and went in camp this being along about the midle of Febuary77 it
                    was Rainy & wet and the Low ground[s] wer all Purty well covrd with water only now and then
                    there was High ground Enough to [c]amp on and all the wood we Had to burn was green Cypress. Just
                    amajin How it Burnt. But while here we had a good time for we had nothing to do only go to town and
                    see the Sights-
                We Remained Here untill the 4 of March then we was marched to the Old Ship united States and again
                    Our Brigade & Batery Was Put abord 1 Ship.78 We Started Down the Miss
                    again & Laid up for the night Before we Reached the Jeties or the mout[h] of the Miss next
                    morning Mch the 5 we Reached Run through the Jetes about Sun up and this was a grand Sight to see
                    the sun Rise all went well for a few Hours and the sea was very cam. But Later in the day it clouded
                    up and a Storm was 
                        
                            76 Bir was viewing, almost as a tourist, "all the Sights" at Vicksburg.
                            Thus he acquired a reprint of the July 4 edition of the local Daily
                            Citizen, the famous newspaper that resolute publisher James Swords, who used wallpaper
                            when he ran out of newsprint, issued regularly until the city surrendered. When Union troops
                            entered the city on July 4 they found the day's issue still in type, and they printed a
                            slightly revised edition, which included a note, beginning "Two days bring about great
                            changes. The banner of the Union floats over Vicksburg." Col. A. B. Crampton, Seventeenth
                            Corps, of Delphi, Indiana, was ordered to continue the Daily Citizen as a
                            U.S. Army paper. In 1997 the late Mrs. Robert J. Zoeller of New 
                                Albany
                            , representing the Bir family, presented the souvenir reprint to the Indiana
                            Historical Society. Library of Congress, Reference Department, Serials Division, Information
                            Circular, "The Daily Citizen, Vicksburg, 
                                Mississippi
                            : Wall Paper Editions," http://www.memory.loc.gov/ammem/pehome.html;
                            correspondence with Leigh Darbee, curator of printed collections, Indiana Historical
                            Society, September 16, 1997; [Delphi, Ind.] 
                                
                                    Carroll County
                                 Citizen-Times, November 28, 1903, p. 1.
                        
                            77 Gen. Andrew Jackson used defensive positions in the bayous and
                            swamplands about 
                                New Orleans
                             to defeat British Gen. Edward Packenham at the Battle of 
                                New Orleans
                            , January 8, 1815. Donald R. Hickey, The War of 1812: A Forgotten Conflict (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1989), 206-14.
                        
                            78 Not the frigate 
                                
                                    United States
                                , Stephen 
                                Decatur
                            's flagship, which fought the British in the War of 1812 and was captured at
                            Norfolk Navy Yard by the Confederates in 1861. Retaken by the Union, she was out of
                            commission in 1864. Naval Historical Center website, http://www.
                            history.navy.mil/danfs/ul/united_states.htm. Numerous requisitioned gunwale barges (i.e.
                            with sides suited to mounting guns) were designated "
                                United States
                            " (or "U.S.") with an added number, and such a vessel likely carried Bir. Dr.
                            Timothy L. Francis, Historian, Naval Historical Center, Department of the Navy, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., to George Clark, August 11, 2004.
                    
                    
                    
                        Fort Morgan, Mobile Point, 
                                Alabama
                            , after Union bombardment.
                        Courtesy American Civil War Portal, http://www.americancivilwar.info
                     on—But before discribing any further will Say the Oficrs of the Ship Had Prepared for
                    Storm for thay had 2 Roes of Old Pork Barel fastend to the deck of the vesell fully 200 feet Long
                    and Son after the Storm was on these were all ocupied By the Boys hollowing 
                        New York
                     and besides this there was fellows Lying on ther Stumachs all around the vessell
                    Throwing up and the wind would Blow it allover the others Lying & Holding to something for
                    dear Life. I did not get Sick the first day out and of corse was Having Lots of fun with these
                    fellows. But the following morning the Storm still Raging and I took Sick & I tell you no
                    one can discribe how Sick i was unless thay Hav Expieranced it I could not throw up & I
                    Prayed the old vesle would Sink So I could be out of my missery-But about 3 oclock of Mch the 7th we
                    Reached Darphan Island apiset Fort Morgan79 & Here we were marched off
                    & what a sight it was 
                        
                            79 Fort Morgan, on Mobile Point, three miles across the channel from
                            Dauphin Island, fell to the British during the War of 1812 but was rebuilt soon thereafter.
                            In 1861, together with Fort Gaines on Dauphin Island, it was seized by the Confederacy. Both
                            were retaken by the Union Navy after Farragut's defeat of the Confederate warships barring
                            the entrance to Mobile Bay, August 23, 1864. When the ironclad Tecumseh
                            leading his fleet struck a mine, Farragut
                    
                     for us fellows that was Still sick would Steger arou[nd]
                    & Step higher then a Blind Horse-I think if I had been Discharged there I would Hav spent
                    the Balance of my days there Rather then go ovr what I had Expeeranced on this trip.
                When we went in camp on this Island we found the 13 army Core Here & Gen Canby was in command
                    of all of the Forces80 this Island was Pure Sand and no trees on it and in
                    March. So we got Plenty of sand in our Craw and we had nothing to do only gather Oysters for thay
                    were Plenty of them all around us. But we Had no boats or grab Hooks to gather them with So we would
                    wade as far out as we dared go & grab them with our hands and often a Large Wave or Breaker
                    would Come along and Scater the Boys End ovr End. So we had fun this way while here along the midle
                    of March Lightnen Struck in a Stack of arms near by a mess and Killed 5 menn & it Stuned
                    thousands of the army I Knew it Knocked me down and most of our brigad. It was allso Here that on
                    grand Review one Sunday that Gen Oysterhouse81 was Inspecting Our company then
                    he found one of our company Purty dirty & told me to get a Root Brush and Scrub this man and
                    i did so under His supervision and I did it well for this same fellow Had been an Ie Sore to the
                    company for ovr 2 years this same comrad is still Living in this city and He is still Durty
                    & makes about as good a citesen as He did a soldir I supose you Know about what these Kind
                    of fellows was worth to the army.
                About the 20 of Mch we were Loded on Steamers and taken to the mouth of Dog River & Here we
                    Began our campa[ne] against Mobile82 the first thing when we Landed was to Build
                    Brest works for our Protection through the night & march a few miles the next Day this march
                    was thro [ugh a dens f]orest of the Finest Pine I Evr saw. Lots of 
                        signaled, according to tradition, "Damn the torpedoes, Full speed ahead." Former secretary
                            of the Navy John Lehman notes that Farragut actually shouted, "Damn the torpedoes, Four
                            bells, Captain Drayton." John E Lehman, On Seas of Glory: Heroic Men, Great
                                Ships, and Epic Battles of the American Navy (
                                New York
                            , 2001), 156. Fort Morgan today is an impressive, well-preserved National
                            Historic Landmark. Roberts, Encyclopedia of Historic Forts, 5, 11.
                        
                            80 Gen. Edward Richard Sprigg Canby fought in the Seminole and Mexican
                            wars. Before the assault on Mobile he commanded troops in 
                                New Mexico and New York
                             City.
                        
                            81 Gen. Peter Joseph Osterhaus of Prussia emigrated to 
                                Missouri
                             in 1848. He fought at Wilson's Creek, Pea Ridge, and Big Black
                            River in the Vicksburg Campaign. After the war, he became Consul to 
                                France
                             (1866-1877).
                        
                            82 The Dog River, flowing eastward into Mobile Bay, is about 20 miles
                            north of Dauphin Island and now within greater Mobile.
                    
                     trees seamed to be 100 ft to the Limbs and we Burnt Lots of
                    Rosen Camps thay would make an awfull fires & smoke as black as a Hat= So we Had nothing but
                    Pine Knots to burn and Had no soap to wash with and we all got so Black that you could Hardly told
                    us from negro Troops. But finaly we Reached Spanish fort.83 I think it was the 1
                    of Aprile when we drove the Johnies in thir Holes & the Sieg was on we drove them in thir
                    fort and in 20 minuits from this time there was Breast works for 12 miles around thirs and it Dont
                    Seen to me that it was over 2 hundred yard of thir main forts. But we had to be very carefull in
                    moving for many a fellow was blowed up with torpedoes thay Had them Planted under all culverts along
                    the Road & Scaterd in front of thir Breast works so you could Hardly move without Being in
                    Danger of one. But we soon found thir mark where they were Put and would avoid them we Kep Diging up
                    to them Jonies work untill we got in 20 yard of thir Fort so thay could not shell us with thir guns
                    and they Bored holes in Logs & Put a tuch hole and Enough Paudr to blow the shells ovr in
                    our trenchs. But this was not all we had to guard against for thay Had over on an Ilend in the Bay
                    Severel 120 Pound morters & these would come ovr in our Lines & when thay Struck the
                    ground & Bursted it would make a Hole Large Enough to Put a House in these did [not often]
                    do any Execution But it Kept us very uneasy all the time. So we Built great gofer Holes in the
                    ground and Lived & Slep in these when not on duty. I well Remembr one of these Shell
                    Bursting Just at the foot of my House in the ground and tore a Hole as Deep as the gofer was But
                    Just missed us many funy Incidents Hapend Here that I will not take time to Right. I think this bade
                    was Faught by the 13 & 19 & 16 cores the 16 core Has the credit of firs Breaking the
                    Lines and gaining admission this Fight Lasted for 8 days 1 think at the Surendr of the Forts it was
                    our Lot to guard a 
                        
                            83 On March 17, 1865, Canby set out with 45,000 troops to capture
                            Mobile, which was held by 10,000 troops and 300 guns spread among a number of forts. Canby
                            captured Forts Gaines and Morgan at the mouth of Mobile Bay and then, with naval support,
                            captured the principal defenses at Spanish Fort (March 27-April 8) and Blakely (April 1-9).
                            The Confederates evacuated Mobile on the night of April 11; Canby entered the following
                            morning and on May 4 received the surrender of Gen. Richard Taylor, commander of the
                            Department of East 
                                Louisiana, Mississippi
                            , and 
                                Alabama
                            . Grant recalled, "I had tried for more than two years to have an expedition
                            sent against Mobile when its possession by us would have been of great advantage. It finally
                            cost lives to take it when its possession was of no importance, and when, if left alone, it
                            would within a few days have fallen into our hands without any bloodshed whatsoever." Grant,
                            Memoirs, 2:519.
                    
                     Regiment of Alabamy I think the 86 alabamy & thay were
                    all boys. Lots of them did not Look Like thay were ovr 12 or 13 yeers old a great many of them
                    crying and wanted to go Home= I all so Recolect a Remark one of the Old vetern Reble made as they
                    were marched by our comand. He said well Il Bedamed if Every Pine tree aint got a Dozen yankeys
                    behind it & the woods is full of them no wondr thay can come and invade our country
                    & Just do as thay Please- This was our Last Battle after Disposing of Our Priseners we
                    marched of to Selma 
                        Alabama
                     I [think only] the 16 core the Balance were Left in charge of Mobile this march was a
                    very Hard one for it was through the Poorest country we had seen in the South nothing but Sand
                    & very thinly Settled and it was on this march that we Heard that Lee Had Surenderd
                    & a few days Later We Heard of the asasination of Abreham Lincon this cast a great gloom ovr
                    Our army.84 We Passed Selme on to Mongom[ery] & Reached Mongomiry
                    Alabame in time to See the Ruins of Depo guns & coton Burning this Firing Had been done by
                    the 4 Ky. So you need not be surprised this was the ceat of the confederacy & of corse
                    Plenty of money was obtained by the Boys & we had Some very Heavy games Beting as much as
                    100 thousand dolars on one game the country was full of new Bills Just Printed-85 We went in camp here & Remained for Severel weeks. Sleeping & Eating was
                    all we had to do we Left Here and was taken to Meredian Miss. Staid here a few days & Borded
                    the cars and was taken to Gainsvill Ala on the Tom Bigby River. Here we guarded coton &
                    corelled negroes & Had a good time in Jeneral on the 4 of July 65 the citizans of the Town
                    & Surounding co gave us a barbecue & it was a grand affere for us for we feested
                    that day on the Best the country aforded86 it was [claimed] that there was 25000 People there Blacks & Whites for thay Had a seperate table for the
                    colord People.
                
                    
                        84 Lee surrendered to Grant on April 9, 1865. Lincoln was assassinated five
                        days later on April 14.
                    
                        85 As loans, customs duties, and taxes proved insufficient to finance the
                        war, the Confederate treasury issued $1,554,000,000 in paper currency secured only by the
                        promise of postwar redemption. "Though the gold value of these Confederate notes stood at 90
                        percent of their face value in 1861, it declined to 82.7 percent in early 1862, to 29 percent in
                        early 1863, and to 4.6 percent in early 1864" and "by early 1865 these notes were worth only 1.7
                        cents on the dollar." Donald, Baker, and Holt, The Civil War and
                        Reconstruction, 259.
                    
                        86 The 93rd Indiana traveled on the Southern 
                            Mississippi
                         Railroad from Meridian to 
                            Gainesville, Alabama
                        . Here, where Bir celebrated the end of the war at a Fourth of July picnic, Forrest
                        just two months previously had given his final address to his troops. Foote, The
                            Civil War, 3:1001.
                
                
                It was in August I was Sent 30 miles Down in the country to Corect Some negroes that Had became
                    unruly I was sent to scare the[m] & tri and Perswade them to Remain at work on these
                    Plantations and while on this mission is where I Hav airways thought I was two Honast for I could
                    Hav made Thousands of Dolars By going around amongst the Planters thay would come after me to go to
                    Shuch a Plantation and often oferd me as muchs as 100 Per trip & some would ofer Less of
                    Corse. But I was Sent by the Provost marshal to Such menn as would come to the marshel ofice
                    & Probebly Pay Him 5 hundred for my survice & I was two Honest to go only where i
                    was Instructed to go. But I Know that I could Hav made Thousands of dolers this Way. But I could not
                    see it then alltho I Had a High time for about 2 month amongst the Rich Planters & thir
                    girls & felt Perfectly safe it was on one of these Expeditions that I went to one Planters
                    Place for the Purpose of corecting one of his negroes for Killing one of his Mastrs Horses &
                    the negro was about to do me up with a butchrKnife & I Had to shoot Him. I was Reported to
                    the Provost mrshel for this & Had to Rid 30 miles to Report. But of corse I [was sent] back
                    all Right But it caused me to Ride 60 miles.
                While out on this mission I Learned How to Pick coton & How to bale the Same I injoyed it
                    Ever so much when the time came to Leave a Mr Dr Williams oferd me 1 Thousand dolers Per yeer
                    & Bord if i would stay with Him and allso ofrd me the finest Rich coton Land at 3 Dol Per
                    acer. But I was bent on coming Home I Hav no doubt if I had Staid there it would Hav been a fine
                    opertunity for me for thay Put this coton on flat boats and floted it to Mobile Ala after a stay of
                    about 7 month we Started Home on the Mobile & 
                        Ohio
                     Road in Boxcars. I forgot to Say that we bid a due to our old comrads of the 72
                    & 95 
                        Ohio
                     & 114 111 & 1 111 Bat & 10 Minasota at Mongomery Alabamy aftr
                    Being Brigaded with them for nearly 3 years & in August 8 companys of Our Regiment was
                    Discharged & Left Co I & K to Hold the Post.87 But about Nov 14
                    we Left for Home 
                        
                            87 "Arriving at 
                                Memphis, Tennessee
                            , the Ninety-Third was mustered out of the service at that place, to date August
                            10th, 1865. The regiment left at once for 
                                Indianapolis
                            , and upon reaching there, on the 11th of August, was greeted with a public
                            ovation in the State House Grove, and welcomed by addresses from [Lieutenant] Governor
                            [Conrad] Baker and others." The account continues, "On the muster-out of the regiment,
                            Companies "I" and "K" were ordered to remain in service.… This battalion was finally
                            discharged in October, 1865." ["[T]he 20 of Novembr" according to Bir.] Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, 3:125. Thus Bir and the men of Companies I
                            and K were denied the ritual reception and banquet customarily given by Indiana state
                            officials to regiments on their return from the war.
                    
                     we came to 
                        Columbus
                     Ky & from there took Boat for Cairo & then the 
                        Illinois
                     Centerel for 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    88 you may notice that we was at Cairo 4 times During the time of our Service we
                    was Paid of the 20 of Novembr 1865 in the aftrnoon & Left for Home on the J M & I
                    & Reached Newalbany about 12 oclock at noon the Dinky train only Runing 16 st at this time
                    quite a numbr of the boys could not wate untill dey Light to Stert Home. But most of them scaterd to
                    [?] Homes some in city & the country. I staid all night at Joseph Renn on State St But did
                    not sleep much for the Bed bugs Nearly Eat me up.
                21 Being Sunday89 I went out and Bought me a Suit of Cloth Paid 4800 for it 3 mon[ths] Pay. But can buy a better suit Now for [3] Dol. I went Home on 21
                    & Saw my good old mothr that I Had often thought of During my absentee] of nearly 40 months.
                    When I Left Home I was my mothers main suport & I Promist Hur I would Send Hur money Every
                    time I drew any & So I did I think i Had Sent about 37500 Dolars
                    & to my surprise when I came Home She had Saved Every cent of it for me and gave it to me
                    alltho she Had Deprved Hurself of many things She Needed to do this. But yet How I apreciated it.
                This is in Brief my Remenence of my army Life.
                I think I forgot to Say that During my Servis in the army that we Belonged to [the] 15 & 16
                    & 17 army Core.
                Allso it is Said that We traveld allmost 11 Thousand Miles-Soldeerd in 9 Sutherns States. Was under
                    fire of Reble Shot & shell 96 Days.90
                
                Was Slightly Wounded 2.
                
                    
                        88
                        
                            Columbus, Kentucky
                        , was the northern terminus of the Mobile & 
                            Ohio
                         Railroad. Bir would have transferred from the 
                            Illinois
                         Central in order to travel eastward to 
                            Indianapolis
                        . His travels by rail can be followed on National Geographic Society, Battlefields of the Civil War [map], 1:2,598,000 (
                            Washington
                        , D. C, 1974).
                    
                        89 Bir's dating is inaccurate: the Sunday following November 20,1865, was
                        the 26th. The J. M. & I. Railroad had brought him to 
                            Jeffersonville
                        , still some miles from home.
                    
                        90 State records offer this summary of the regiment: "The regiment left for
                        the field with an aggregate of nine hundred and twenty-three. It returned with eighteen officers
                        and two hundred men. It has traveled, during its term of service, one thousand and sixty miles
                        by rail, three thousand nine hundred and seventy-two miles by river, and marched two thousand
                        four hundred miles, making a grand total of seven thousand four hundred and thirty-two miles."
                        Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, 3:125.
                
                
                Was a Prisner of War Part of 2 Days But Lay in Jen Forests camp 3 days Hid away. Run 58 mile in one
                    night in May to get to our Lines.91
                
                Yours Louis Bir Sargent Co K 93 Ind
                
                    
                        91 Bir supplied the elaboration of this summary which closed a brief sketch
                        of his career in H. H. Hardesty, Presidents, Soldiers, Statesmen (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1893), 2:1185:  [H]e was taken prisoner the day after the Guntown fight, where
                            he and seven of his comrades made a stand and killed eleven of the rebels; he escaped from
                            his captors the next day, and was hid away and concealed by a colored man right in Forrest's
                            camp for four days, and then made his way to the Union lines 56 miles away in about ten
                            hours, arriving there, bare-footed, bare headed, nearly naked and famished, with the flesh
                            torn from his feet and ankels [sic].
                        
                    
                
            
            
            
                The Abraham Lincoln Collections at the Indiana Historical Society
                DARREL E. BIGHAM
                Most Americans consider 
                        Illinois
                     the "land of Lincoln," due in part to the motto added to that state's automobile
                    license plates during the sesquicentennial of his birth in 1959. Some also know that he was born in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Few understand that he spent his formative years, ages seven to twenty-one, in 
                        Spencer County
                    , Indiana. Most biographers and historians have reinforced that ignorance either by
                    overlooking Lincoln's life as a Hoosier or by giving it short shrift. For example, the author of the
                    best contemporary biography of Lincoln-winner of the 2004 Lincoln Prize-devotes just a few pages to
                    the Indiana years.1
                
                Fortunately, Hoosiers have a wealth of Lincoln resources. The Lincoln Boyhood National Memorial in 
                        Spencer County
                    , a National Park Service site since 1962, provides high-quality interpretation of the
                    Lincoln family and its years in Indiana (1816-1830). Nearby, Lincoln State Park and Gentryville
                    house other sites associated with Lincoln's 
                        Darrel E. Bigham is the director of Historic Southern Indiana and professor of history at
                            the University of Southern Indiana, 
                                Evansville
                            . He was appointed by President William Clinton to the 
                                United States
                             Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission in 2000. He currently chairs its
                            Education and States Liaison committees.
                        
                            1 Richard J. Carwardine, Lincoln (Harlow, 
                                England
                            , 2003). See, by contrast, William Lee Miller, Lincoln's Virtues:
                                An Ethical Biography (
                                New York
                            , 2002).
                    
                     Indiana years. Three Indiana repositories have Lincoln
                    collections: the Lilly Library at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    ; the Indiana Historical Society (IHS) in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; and the Lincoln Museum in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     (which holds the second largest collection of Lincoln materials in the 
                        United States
                     after the Library of Congress).
                In 2003 one of these repositories made a significant addition to its collection. The Indiana
                    Historical Society already possessed a Lincoln collection of more than 300 objects, including a leaf
                    from a sum book Lincoln used as a boy, manuscripts from his presidential years, and written
                    reminiscences of him by those who knew him as a child and young man. Thanks to a $2.9 million grant
                    from the Lilly Endowment, the society has now acquired approximately 800 additional items from two
                    Lincoln collectors. The Jack Smith Lincoln Graphics Collection, by far the larger of the two,
                    consists of photographs, lithographs, engravings, and busts of Lincoln. Collected by Jack L. Smith
                    of 
                        South Bend
                     and focused on 1860-1865 and the post-assassination years, these items comprise one of
                    the most important groupings of Lincoln images anywhere. The grant also enabled the IHS to acquire
                    the Daniel R. Weinberg Lincoln Conspirators Collection, which consists of photographs, manuscripts,
                    books, pamphlets, and newspapers relating to the president's assassination. Weinberg, owner of the
                    Abraham Lincoln Book Shop in 
                        Chicago
                    , sold the most significant artifact of the entire acquisition: the original collodion
                    wet-plate negative of a photograph of Lincoln by Alexander Gardner. One of the best-known Lincoln
                    images, it was taken eleven days before the president delivered the 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address on November 19, 1863.
                According to IHS President and CEO Salvatore Cilella, Jr., the new purchases resulted from
                    "incredible coincidences." Cilella visited Weinberg in the summer of 2002 to encourage him to
                    participate in the society's Rare Book and Map Fair as well as to purchase a copy of Weinberg's
                    recently published book on Lincoln's assassins. From that visit came the opportunity to purchase the
                    assassination materials. Weinberg also encouraged Cilella to meet with Smith, whose huge collection
                    of Lincolniana covered every wall in his home, the walls of his office, and the hallways at his
                    corrugated paper box manufacturing company, but also filled his private, two-story gallery in
                    downtown 
                        South Bend
                    . Smith, who had experienced a serious heart attack that summer, later recalled to a
                    reporter that he thought he should "‘do something about this collection’ … [H]e did not want his
                    collection ‘ending up in a museum or a school … because they usually buy these things and 
                    
                        The collodion wet-plate negative of a photograph of Lincoln by Alexander Gardner. Lincoln sat
                            for the portrait on November 8, 1863.
                        Courtesy Indiana Historical Society
                    
                     show them once … When Sal started talking to me about what the
                    historical society's plans were for the collection and how they are going to use it, and the idea of
                    keeping the collection together as one entity, it seemed very intriguing.’"2
                
                The IHS's acquisition of these two important collections provides much greater access to Lincoln
                    materials-not just to those visiting the society's library and its planned Lincoln exhibits, but
                    also to anyone with access to the Internet. All of the Lincoln materials have been digitized and
                    made available through the society's website.3 The physical collection became
                    available for use at the society's library in February 2005, when the exhibition "The Faces of
                    Lincoln" also opened. In addition, a grant from Bank One will allow the society to bring these new
                    collections into the K-12 classroom. Portions of the collection will be used in traveling
                    exhibitions, and the visual images from the collection will be highlighted in a forthcoming book to
                    be published by the society's press.
                The IHS's acquisition of Lincoln materials is significant, in short, in adding to the quality and
                    accessibility of Lincolniana held in Hoosier collections. Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's Lincoln Museum possesses a similarly large collection of lithographs, prints,
                    etchings, engravings, and other artifacts that reflect the many ways in which Lincoln's image
                    permeated popular culture during his presidency and afterwards. The Lilly Library's collection is
                    similar, although smaller than the other two. Together, the three collections constitute an
                    important part of the IHS's plan to develop a heritage trail linking the southwest part of the
                    state, where Lincoln lived as a boy, to central and northeastern Indiana. The three repositories
                    hope, moreover, to create a database of their Lincoln materials that would make all of these
                    collections available to scholars and educators worldwide.4
                
                
                    
                        2 Quoted in David Mannweiler, "Lincoln artifacts boost state legacy" 
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, January 23, 2003.
                    
                        3 To access the collection, go to
                        http://www.indianahistory.org/library/digital_image/ digitalpics.html. The Lincoln collections
                        are searchable by a variety of categories; clicking on "View Images" within the descriptive
                        paragraph on each collection will bring up all of the digital images from that collection.
                    
                        4 Other collections already on the Internet or in the digitizing process
                        include the Library of Congress (http://www.loc.gov) and the 
                            Illinois
                         Historic Preservation Agency (http://www.state.il.us/HPA). Other important on-line
                        collections include the Collected Works of Abraham Lincoln (http://www.hti.umich.edu/1/lincoln)
                        and the digital library of Northern 
                            Illinois
                         University (http://www.lib.niu.edu).
                
                
                
                    An early photograph of Lincoln, without a beard, taken in August 1858. Printmakers later altered
                        such images to match the president's post-election appearance.
                    Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, Jack Smith Lincoln Graphics Collection
                
                
                The IHS's Lincoln materials are primarily visual-iconographic images. These are a valuable means of
                    telling the Lincoln story not just as illustrations that supplement the written record, but also as
                    evidence of the regard with which fellow Americans held Lincoln before and after his death.5 Because of technological advancements in photography and printing, Lincoln was
                    the first president whose image became wellknown to most Americans. The mass marketing of prints-in
                    a time before television and the internet-made it possible for candidates to distribute their
                    pictures to the public and made high-quality printed images affordable for ordinary people. Lincoln
                    and his campaign managers understood the power of the press and believed it was vital for images of
                    him to be flattering. Consequently many included a more pleasing appearance, with a restyled nose,
                    eyes or hair. Images of Lincoln became plentiful during his 1860 campaign via posters, sheet music,
                    paintings, and prints that were available through bookstores, newspaper offices, and the mail.
                When Lincoln grew a beard after his election, printers rushed to create new, updated images.
                    Newspapers did not have the technology to reproduce the few photographs available to them and
                    instead used engravings made from the photos. One of the most widely adapted was the photograph
                    taken by Matthew Brady just before the Cooper Union address in February 1860.6
                
                During Lincoln's presidency many prints included members of his family, often in pastoral settings;
                    others focused on patriotic symbols, especially connections with George and Martha 
                        Washington
                    . Lithographs and engravings of prominent men and events of the Civil War also appeared,
                    especially after the issuance of the Emancipation Proclamation. The president's assassination led to
                    still more images-representations of the shooting; of his final hours on his deathbed with his
                    family, cabinet members, and generals; of the honors by thousands of citizens as his body lay in
                    state and was returned to 
                        Springfield
                     for burial; and of his apotheosis.7
                
                
                    
                        5 Harold Holzer, email to author, July 1, 2004.
                    
                        6 Harold Holzer, Lincoln at Cooper Union: The Speech That Made
                            Abraham Lincoln President (
                            New York
                        , 2004) provides background on this photograph.
                    
                        7 Harold Holzer, Gabor S. Boritt, and Mark E. Neely, Jr., The
                            Lincoln Image: Abraham Lincoln and The Popular Print (
                            Urbana
                        , Ill., 2001).
                
                
                
                    Originally issued by a 
                            Boston
                         publishing house, this engraving of Lincoln portrays him with one hand resting on a
                        copy of the Emancipation Proclamation.
                    Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, Jack Smith Lincoln Graphics Collection
                
                Jack Smith began collecting when he discovered a photograph of his great-grandfather as a Union
                    soldier. He began purchasing prints of Lincoln and Ulysses Grant in 1959. Over forty years he
                    acquired 752 objects that provided a visual record of Lincoln's life, from humble beginnings to the
                    presidency to his lasting image as an American icon. The collection shows Lincoln as politician,
                    family man, and national martyr.8
                
                
                    
                        8
                        Picturing Lincoln: The Changing Image of America's 16th
                        President (
                            South Bend
                        , Ind., n.d.), passim.
                
                
                
                    This lithograph is one among many images that paired Lincoln with George 
                            Washington
                        .
                    Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, Jack Smith Lincoln Graphics Collection
                
                All of the Lincoln collections have finding aids and a detailed description of each item. The Jack
                    Smith Collection has been catalogued into seventeen series: Boyhood, Campaigns and Elections,
                    Political Cartoons, Presidency, Politicians, Civil War, White House Years, Quotes and Speeches,
                    Emancipation, Assassination and Death, Iconography, Family, Mary Todd, Residences, Graphic
                    Portraits, Photographic Portraits, and Statues, Busts, and Plaques. Each series is organized
                    alphabetically by artist and title. The composition of the collection is quantitatively uneven.
                    Graphic Portraits, with nearly two hundred items, constitutes the largest series. Iconography ranks
                    second, with eighty-six. Following that are Assassination and Death, with seventyeight; Photographic
                    Portraits, with sixty-eight; and Statues, Busts, and Plaques, with sixty-seven. Together, these five
                    series account for twothirds of the collection. Of the remaining twelve series, Boyhood includes the
                    least number of items (seven) and Family the most (thirtyeight).
                Each user will find items of special interest in the collection. The reviewer, for instance,
                    appreciated the images of the dubious "birthplace 
                    
                        A lithograph of Lincoln and his family. This composite image was produced after the
                            president's death.
                        Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, Jack Smith Lincoln Graphics Collection
                     cabin" and the lithograph advertising excursions to Lincoln's birthplace (both catalogued
                    in the Residences series, although they might have been better placed in Iconography). Eleven
                    iconographic images link Lincoln to 
                        Washington
                    . (One of them, out of deference to the latter's symbolic stature, makes the former
                    physically shorter.) Several demonstrate how obsolete items could be resold. The print "Apotheosis
                    of George 
                        Washington
                    " became "In Memory of Abraham Lincoln" when the printer placed Lincoln's head on 
                        Washington
                    's body. An 1852 print featuring the authors of the compromise of 1850 was remade in
                    1861 with Lincoln's head on John C. Calhoun's body. (It was remade one more time, after Lincoln grew
                    a beard.)
                The series of political cartoons from the 1860 campaign provides a number of unflattering portraits
                    of the Republican candidate for president. The graphic portraits include Lincoln's image on "La Flor
                    de Lincoln," a cigar box label. The photographic portraits series contains the first and the last
                    photographs taken of Lincoln. The family series includes mostly idyllic scenes of the Lincoln family
                    together. These are composite creations, using individual photographs to create posed family
                    settings, since the family was never photographed together.
                
                Daniel R. Weinberg assembled the materials that constitute the Daniel R. Weinberg Collection for a
                    book that was published in 2001.9 He has been in the business of purchasing,
                    selling, and appraising items of Americana since 1971. His specializations are in Lincolniana, the
                    American Civil War, and the American presidency. He has helped to build some of the major
                    collections in the 
                        United States
                     and has lectured to a number of historical groups.
                The Weinberg Collection comprises six series: Assassination, Apprehension, Trial, Execution,
                    Transportation, and Books and Pamphlets. Numerically, the twenty-seven books and pamphlets relating
                    to the conspiracy, published between 1865 and 1997, constitute the largest of the six series. The
                    next largest is the Execution series, which includes the photographs of Alexander Gardner, the only
                    person whom the War Department allowed to document the executions. Many will consider them the most
                    poignant of the images in this group.
                The collection contains artifacts, manuscripts, newspapers, and photographs. Artifacts and newspapers
                    account for the smallest number of items (three each). The manuscript collection of twenty-seven
                    items includes eight letters and Winfield Scott 
                        Hancock
                    's copy of the original order of execution, used on the scaffold by General John
                    Hartranft to read the charges to the prisoners. Photographs, many of them dealing with the
                    execution, constitute half of the collection.
                The public's demand for news, set in the context of the recent murder of the president and the end of
                    the Civil War, spurred the demand for photographs of those who had allegedly conspired with John
                    Wilkes Booth to kill Lincoln and to attempt to kill members of his cabinet. The physical appearance
                    of the prisoners attracted great public interest, because at the time looks were considered
                    important evidence of character. One item in the collection is an albumen carte-de-visite featuring
                    a composite of photographs of seven male conspirators, including Booth. The eighth person tried for
                    conspiracy was boarding-house keeper Mary Surratt, whose son was linked to John Wilkes Booth and
                    whose boarders included Lewis Powell, the would-be assassin of Secretary of State William Seward.
                    Surratt was the only woman and the eldest among the 
                        
                            9 James L. Swanson and Daniel R. Weinberg, Lincoln
                                Assassins: Their Trial and Execution: An Illustrated History (Santa Fe, N. M.,
                            2001). To place these events in larger perspective, see Elizabeth D. Leonard, Lincoln's Avengers: Justice, Revenge, and Reunion after the Civil War (
                                New York
                            , 2004).
                    
                    
                    
                        A lithograph of Mary Surratt, the only woman executed as a conspirator in the assassination
                            of President Lincoln.
                        Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, Daniel R. Weinberg Lincoln Conspirators Collection
                     four eventually executed. Efforts to obtain mercy from President Andrew Johnson were
                    unavailing (although later, in the context of the congressional-presidential struggle to control
                    Reconstruction, Johnson became an ex post facto supporter of the notion that
                    Surratt's execution had been vindictive). The collection includes a lithograph of Mrs. Surratt, as
                    no photographs were taken of her between her arrest and execution. This was the public's only means
                    of knowing what she looked like. The military tribunal's decision that four should die and the
                    others spend their lives in prison was endorsed by President Johnson and announced to the public
                    just two days before the hangings on July 7, 1865.
                The Weinberg acquisition also includes a collodion (wet-plate) negative dated November 8, 1863, that
                    was taken by Alexander Gardner  (1821-1881). Born in 
                        Scotland
                    , Gardner developed an interest in the ideas of Robert Owen regarding the plight of the
                    working class. He and nine others came to the 
                        United States
                     in 1849 to purchase land in 
                        Iowa
                     for a semi-socialistic colony. Upon his return to 
                        Scotland
                    , he purchased a weekly newspaper in 
                        Glasgow
                    . His visit to the 1851 Great Exhibition in 
                        London
                    , where he saw the photographs of Matthew Brady, America's leading photographer, changed
                    his life. Within a year he began to devote most of his time to the new art form. He and his family
                    returned to America in the spring of 1856 and settled in 
                        New York
                    .
                Gardner initiated contact with Brady, who hired him and placed him in charge of his 
                        Washington
                     gallery. Gardner became an expert in the new collodion process which was rapidly
                    displacing the daguerreotype and quickly gained a reputation for being an outstanding photographer.
                    The coming of the war brought him substantial business, as soldiers wanted to be photographed in
                    uniform before going to the front line. Gardner's relationship with Allan Pinkerton, head of the
                    intelligence operation later known as the Secret Service, helped him to secure appointments as chief
                    photographer in the U. S. Topographical Engineers and as a member of the staff of General George
                    McClellan. Gardner's management of Brady's studio in 
                        Washington
                     ended, and his government duties were reduced when McClellan was dismissed in November
                    1862. His ties with Brady already severed, he and his brother James opened their own studio in 
                        Washington
                     in May 1863, and hired six of Brady's former associates. Gardner continued to
                    photograph battle scenes thereafter.
                Gardner took photographs of Lincoln on seven separate occasions. The photograph taken eleven days
                    before the delivery of the 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address is one of the few portraits to show Lincoln looking directly at the viewer. It
                    reveals a haggard president with heavy lines on his face. His "lazy" left eye is noticeable. One of
                    the best-known photographs of Lincoln, it was used by Daniel 
                        Chester
                     French as the model for the sculpture in the Lincoln Memorial in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C.10
                
                The IHS has also digitized its previously extant Lincoln-related collection of some 300 items, dating
                    from the 1820s to the late 1930s, and 
                        
                            10 D. Mark Katz, Witness to an Era: The Life and
                                Photographs of Alexander Gardner: The Civil War, Lincoln, and the West (
                                New York
                            , 1991).
                    
                     has created a useful finding aid which describes in detail
                    objects drawn from a number of collections in the William Henry Smith Memorial Library. It has four
                    parts: "By Lincoln," "To Lincoln," "Certification and Endorsements," and "About Lincoln." By far the
                    largest, the last of the four ranges in date from 1865 to 1938 and includes a number of letters. It
                    also contains nineteen items from the John E. Iglehart Collection (1915) that represent the 
                        Evansville
                     attorney's attempt to collect the memories of those who knew Lincoln when he lived in 
                        Spencer County
                    .
                We are fortunate that the Indiana Historical Society has enhanced its Lincoln collections so
                    substantially and made them accessible to the public in such a variety of ways. Teachers in visual
                    arts as well as social studies and language arts, for example, should be able to utilize these
                    objects to demonstrate the evolution of photographic technology, the use of photographs in creating
                    mass-produced images for newspapers and other media, the impact of such images in a pre-electronic
                    time, and the use of visual imagery in the American political process. The many examples of
                    iconography provide ample opportunity to encourage reflection on the process whereby the collective
                    memory of a people is created.
                With the coming of the Lincoln bicentennial, many activities and projects are being planned in
                    Indiana and the other two "Lincoln states."11 The IHS's commitment to ensuring
                    that Indiana's Lincoln will be a significant part of this process is laudable. These acquisitions
                    will help Americans know more about our sixteenth president and, it is hoped, will also lead to
                    Indiana historical societies, libraries, and museums being able to secure more manuscripts and
                    artifacts relating to Lincoln.
                
                    
                        11 Planning at the national level can be accessed via the Lincoln
                        Bicentennial Commission Web site: http://www.lincolnbicentennial.gov.
                
            
            
            
                REVIEWS
                
                    Our Secret Constitution How Lincoln Redefined American Democracy, By George P.
                    Fletcher, (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 2001. Pp. xi, 292. Notes, index. Clothbound, $30.00; paperbound,
                    $16.95.)
                
                    Judging Lincoln, By Frank J. Williams. Foreword by Harold Holzer and epilogue by
                    John Y. Simon, (Carbondale: Southern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 2002. Pp. xxiii, 202. Illustrations, bibliography, notes, index.
                    $25.00.)
                
                    Lincoln's Constitution, By Daniel A. Farber, (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 2003. Pp. x, 240. Notes, index. $27.50.)
                Although there are more books written about Abraham Lincoln than any other American, his life
                    continues to be a perennial source for investigation and reinterpretation. Jurists, whether they are
                    lawyers, judges, or law professors, bring a unique perspective to the study of Lincoln's life and
                    legacy. Because his quarter-century legal career shaped his thoughts and actions as president and
                    because he faced some of the most challenging constitutional crises in the nation's history, legal
                    scholars have asked many questions about Abraham Lincoln and the law. These three volumes
                    demonstrate that jurists can offer new insights into our understanding of Lincoln's presidency and
                    the Civil War.
                
                    
                        Columbia
                     University Law Professor George R Fletcher argues that "the Civil War called forth a
                    new constitutional order," based on the passage of the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth
                    Amendments to the Constitution  (p. 2). These amendments
                    established a second American constitution with principles in sharp contrast to the Constitution of
                    1787. While the original document was based on the principles of "peoplehood as a voluntary
                    association, individual freedom, and republican elitism," the principles of this second constitution
                    were "organic nationhood, equality of all persons, and popular democracy" (p. 2). These competing
                    visions have struggled for supremacy in American life since the Civil War era.
                In Fletcher's interpretation, Lincoln's 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address serves as "the preamble of the second American constitution" and "the secular
                    prayer of the postbellum American Republic" (p. 4). Unfortunately for America, Fletcher contends,
                    the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court in the late nineteenth century truncated the promise of this second
                    constitution through its judgments in the Slaughterhouse (1873) and Civil Rights (1883) cases. These and other decisions effectively nullified the promise of
                    the postwar amendments and drove the second constitution underground, where it became America's
                    "Secret Constitution" throughout the twentieth century. Although it did not predominate in the
                    decisions of the U. S. Supreme Court, the Secret Constitution "has, in fact, a much deeper grounding
                    in American political and legal culture, and it has come to express itself in diverse arenas" (p.
                    189). From this location deep in the nation's legal culture, the commitments of the Secret
                    Constitution shaped subsequent constitutional amendments; according to Fletcher, the fourteen
                    amendments since the Civil War "were all designed to further the causes of nationhood, equality, and
                    popular democracy" (p. 7).
                While Fletcher provides an imaginative and thought-provoking overview of American constitutional
                    history, his analysis is based on some problematic assumptions and interpretations, both about the
                    nature of law and about the historical record of Lincoln's presidency and the Civil War amendments.
                    In his discussion of the 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address, Fletcher dismisses the ideas of those scholars and jurists who concern
                    themselves with the "original intent" of laws and amendments as intellectually and morally
                    "impoverished" (p. 30). What Lincoln intended does not matter; the words of his 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address are the preamble to a new constitutional order because "we came to understand
                    them as nearly sacred" (p. 33). Likewise, the purposes for which Congress proposed and the states
                    ratified the postwar amendments are less important than the meaning that later generations attached
                    to them. For Fletcher, laws, amendments, constitutions, and even speeches seem to be empty vessels
                    into which each generation of Americans has poured its own meanings.
                Fletcher's characterization of Lincoln's attitudes toward the Constitution and the laws is equally
                    flawed. Citing "Lincoln's casual attitude toward formal constitutional institutions,  such as the writ of habeas corpus," Fletcher insists that Lincoln was
                    committed to higher principles of law (p. 5). To support this position, Fletcher relies on Robert
                    Penn 
                        Warren
                    's apology for the South (The Legacy of the Civil War: Meditations on the
                        Centennial, 1961) and overlooks Mark Neely's careful studies of wartime civil liberties in
                    both the North and the South (The Fate of Liberty: Abraham Lincoln and Civil
                    Liberties, 1991; Southern Rights: Political Prisoners and the Myth of Confederate
                        Constitutionalism, 1999). Neely found that both the Lincoln and Davis administrations
                    sacrificed civil liberties to the larger goals of retaining territory and winning the war. Fletcher
                    consistently underestimates Lincoln's reverence for the Constitution in limiting his actions as
                    President, and he insists that Lincoln failed to justify his actions when he asked, in his July 4,
                    1861, message to Congress: "Are all the laws but one to go unexecuted, and the government itself go
                    to pieces lest that one be violated?" Fletcher blithely declares that "there is no evidence that the
                    country's circumstances were anywhere near this flashpoint of imminent destruction" (p. 38).
                    However, he neglects the very real concerns in the spring of 1861 that 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., would be cut off from the rest of the North by Confederate sympathizers in 
                        Maryland
                    . The earliest Union regiments to reach the beleaguered capital city literally had to
                    fight their way through angry mobs in 
                        Baltimore
                    .
                Fletcher concludes his chronicle of the strange career of the Secret Constitution with an analysis of
                    the Supreme Court's role in the 2000 Presidential election: "No single incident better demonstrated
                    how torn our psyches were between the procedures laid down in 1787 and modified in 1803 and the new
                    principles of democracy that were born in the 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address and anchored in the Secret Constitution" (p. 234). Although the election
                    initially appeared to vindicate the democratic commitments of the Secret Constitution, "in the end
                    the resolution bore many resemblances to the high-handed intervention of the power-brokers in 1876"
                    (p. 238).
                While Fletcher views Lincoln's actions and the Reconstruction amendments through the lens of his
                    Secret Constitution interpretation, legal scholar Daniel Farber pursues a more modest goal in Lincoln's Constitution. Farber recognizes that during the Civil War, "the
                    Constitution was placed under pressure that it had never seen before and has not seen since" (p. 1).
                    The Civil War raised many fundamental constitutional questions, including the nature of the Union
                    and the scope of presidential authority. During the war, Lincoln did not become a dictator, but "he
                    did stretch the power of the presidency to its outer reaches" (p. 20).
                Farber seeks to understand Lincoln within his historical context, but he also employs the
                    unconventional method of comparing Lincoln's actions to modern conceptions of executive authority as
                    well. Farber  carefully examines southern constitutional
                    arguments for secession and finds them "ultimately unpersuasive" (p. 81). He then considers whether
                    the federal government had the constitutional power to coerce states into remaining in the Union and
                    concludes that "secession was a lawless act, to which the government was legally and morally
                    entitled to respond with force" (p. 112).
                Farber next turns to Lincoln's authority as President, in contrast to the power of Congress, to act
                    in response to secession. Here, Farber suggests that Lincoln may have been wrong according to the
                    partially formed standards of his day but that he has been vindicated by history. Although many
                    scholars might stumble headlong into presentism by employing this approach, Farber effectively uses
                    subsequent legal precedents to evaluate Lincoln's actions as president. In doing so, he offers a
                    different angle of vision from that of a legal historian but carefully provides specific insights
                    rather than sweeping generalizations.
                In his consideration of Lincoln's initial response to secession, Farber finds that "Lincoln remained
                    very much a democratic leader throughout the war" (p. 115). Congress in August 1861 legalized and
                    validated most of Lincoln's actions in the spring of 1861. With the partial exception of Ex parte Milligan in 1866, postwar U. S. Supreme Court decisions largely validated
                    the degree of presidential power exercised by Lincoln. Farber does not shy away from criticism of
                    Lincoln, however. He finds the president's call for volunteers and his use of federal funds in the
                    early stage of the war hard to defend constitutionally, but he believes that "the Union marched to
                    war in general compliance with the Constitution" (p. 143).
                Although Lincoln's suppression of civil liberties was not a sign of impending dictatorship, it was a
                    serious constitutional issue. Lincoln's use of military trials in contested border areas was
                    "probably constitutional" although restrictions on freedoms of speech and the press in secure areas
                    were not. He also failed to hold his subordinates to a strict standard for suppressing speech and
                    went too far in defending them. Farber is more critical of Lincoln's disobedience of a court order
                    in Ex parte Merryman (1861), an action that Farber considers to have been
                    "unlawful" (p. 192). Farber concludes that, on balance, Lincoln's was not "a perfect record, but a
                    creditable one, under incredibly trying circumstances" (p. 197).
                Chief Justice Frank J. Williams of the Supreme Court of 
                        Rhode Island
                     has been a lifelong student of Abraham Lincoln and currently serves on the federal
                    Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission. His collection of essays on topics as diverse as Lincoln's
                    record on civil liberties, the women in Lincoln's life, and collecting Lincolniana demonstrates the
                    breadth of Williams's interests in Lincoln. From his perspective on the bench, Justice Williams
                    insists that "each generation makes its own Lincoln, and he may not be the Lincoln  known before" (p. 12). At first glance, this statement sounds much like
                    Fletcher's insistence that Lincoln's words and actions have merely the meaning subsequent
                    generations ascribe to them, but Williams is more cautious and faithful to the historical record.
                    For Williams, perhaps the most remarkable characteristic of Lincoln was his leadership style: he
                    remained flexible enough to learn from others, including the women in his life and his political
                    opponents, yet strong enough to secure the passage of the Thirteenth Amendment to end slavery.
                Lincoln's law practice was "a springboard to reach his political goals, and this contributed to his
                    later success as president and commander in chief (pp. 34-35). He was always a politician and a
                    lawyer simultaneously, and when he became president, "Lincoln always operated within the constraints
                    of the law, recognizing that power in a democracy always requires checks and balances" (p. 51).
                    Williams admires Lincoln's "constitutional flexibility." In dealing with civil liberties in the
                    wartime North, Lincoln could "bend the Constitution within the framework of its intent without
                    breaking it" (p. 77). He could also hold national elections during a civil war, while working
                    assiduously to ensure that as many soldiers as possible could vote.
                Williams concludes his meditations on the life, leadership, and legacy of Lincoln with an essay on
                    "Lincoln Collecting," written with Mark Neely, Jr. After the middle of the twentieth century, they
                    write, collecting became more of an investment than a scholarly, literary, or cultural activity. In
                    response to this division, Williams and Neely wisely conclude that it would have been better "if
                    Lincoln collecting turned its back on the notion of investment in historical materials and embraced
                    the more enduring values of scholarship and culture" (p. 177).
                These three jurists examine Lincoln through the lens of their legal training and experience. While
                    Fletcher argues that Lincoln consciously or inadvertently created a new constitutional order through
                    his rhetoric and leadership, Farber and Williams find his performance on constitutional matters
                    under exceptionally trying circumstances to be restrained by good judgment and the rule of law.
                    While all three scholars draw inspiration and lessons for today from Lincoln's life, they disagree
                    over what those lessons are. Fletcher welcomes the relentless pursuit of equality and democracy
                    regardless of what Lincoln thought of these ideas; Farber and Williams find instructive lessons in
                    leadership styles, presidential power, and integrity within Lincoln's efforts to preserve the Union.
                    Each of the authors offers fresh ideas about the relevance of Lincoln's ideas, words, and actions
                    for the world today.
                DANIEL W. STOWELL is the director and editor of the Papers of Abraham Lincoln in 
                        Springfield, Illinois
                    .
            
            
            
                
                    A Citizen-Soldier's Civil War The Letters of Brevet Major General Alvin C. Voris,
                    Edited by Jerome Mushkat, (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 2002. Pp. xi, 321. Illustrations, maps, notes and sources, index.
                    $36.00.)
                
                    Love Amid the Turmoil The Civil War Letters of William & Mary 
                            Vermillion
                        
                    , Edited by Donald C. Elder, III, (
                        Iowa
                     City: University of 
                        Iowa
                     Press, 2003. Pp. xiv, 391. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliographical note, index.
                    $39.95.)
                One of the most positive aspects of the deluge of Civil War literature produced in the past decade
                    has been the publication of primary sources. Onceforgotten documents have been rediscovered, new
                    troves of information have been found, and our ability to understand the people who lived through
                    the nation's greatest crisis has been enhanced. These two editions of Civil War letters continue the
                    fine tradition of publishing such materials, and they do so in ways that not only provide easier
                    access to the words and thoughts of historical actors but also offer analysis of broader themes and
                    subjects of inquiry.
                In A Citizen-Soldier's Civil War, Jerome Mushkat gives us the letters of a Union
                    officer to his wife in an edition that is not only enlightening and critical, but also an engaging
                    read. Mushkat's fine introduction provides a brief biography of Voris, and his editorial commentary
                    throughout the volume guides the reader through the war years.
                
                    
                        Ohio
                     lawyer Alvin C. Voris was an abolitionist and advocate for women's rights, radical
                    positions that stemmed from his Christian faith and education at Oberlin College. A staunch
                    Republican legislator, Voris was also an idealist who sponsored reform legislation aimed to promote
                    temperance, improve prisons, and provide more funding for schools and insane asylums. He carried
                    these idealistic notions with him into the war, where he found the reality of combat quite unlike
                    the glorious fight for righteousness he had imagined.
                Enlisting as a private in September 1861, his political standing brought him promotion to brevet
                    major general in the course of the war as he proved his mettle by bravely leading Union troops in
                    battles from the Shenandoah Valley to the 
                        South Carolina
                     Sea Islands, 
                        Charleston
                    , the James River, and 
                        Appomattox
                    . Although his idealism was tempered by the horrors of war, the typical squabbling
                    between officers and men, and his longing to return home to his wife, Lydia, Voris still believed in
                    the cause for which he fought.
                Voris's wartime experience only deepened his support of African American rights. In addition to
                    meeting  slaves while in the South, he served with black
                    troops-his unit followed the 54th 
                        Massachusetts
                     into battle at Fort Wagner-and later Voris temporarily commanded African American
                    soldiers. Unlike many others, he refused to forget the service of blacks in the war and would often
                    refer to their exploits in public speeches. His letters throughout the conflict also reflected his
                    views on women, as he treated Lydia as a partner, his intellectual equal. After the war, he
                    continued to fight for equality and reform in his role as a judge and a community leader.
                In Love Amid the Turmoil, Donald C. Elder, III, presents both the letters of
                    Captain William Vermilion, an 
                        Iowa
                     physician who served from the fall of 1862 to the end of the war, and those of his
                    schoolteacher wife, Mary.
                Born in 
                        Kentucky
                    , Vermilion grew up in Indiana, where he was educated at Asbury College (later DePauw
                    University). He moved first to 
                        Illinois
                     to practice medicine, then to 
                        Iowa
                    , where in 1858 he married Mary Kemper, a young lady he had met in Indiana. A Republican
                    who loyally supported Lincoln, Vermilion enlisted in the 
                        Iowa
                     Infantry in 1862, raised a company of men, and led them into battle, seeing action in a
                    number of campaigns in the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley, including the siege of Vicksburg. Like many other officers, Vermilion was an
                    astute observer of camp life and the countryside, and an insightful commentator on the war. His
                    letters included everything from critical remarks about the soldiers’ fondness for whiskey, to
                    financial advice for his wife at home, to accounts of battles, to comments on the cause and the
                    nature of war.
                More rare and extraordinary are the letters of Mary to William. She spent many months living with
                    family in Indiana while her husband was away and later returned home to 
                        Iowa
                    . Her letters were supportive, but also filled with family problems and comments about
                    the political situation on the home front. Here we find firsthand accounts of the antiwar
                    Copperheads, disheartening complaints about Democratic relatives, worries about finances, and
                    concerns about the everyday matters of life as well as the war. Through it all, William and Mary
                    passionately conveyed their feelings for one another and supported each other through the crisis via
                    their correspondence. Mary proved herself a strong, intelligent woman; she invested wisely in real
                    estate, the profits from which laid a foundation for their fortune after the war. Upon his return
                    home, William became a lawyer, established a successful practice, and went into politics and
                    business. In later years, he made speeches as a leader of a veteran's group and in one entitled "The
                    Ladies-The Soldiers’ Best Friends," he offered a fitting tribute to his own wife and her remarkable
                    work during the war.
                These two books, then, are valuable additions to the Civil War scholar's shelf. Mushkat and Elder
                    connect the correspondence to recent scholarship, making their introductions  and commentaries all the more valuable, and providing models of
                    scholarly editing. These are also important contributions to the history of the Midwest, as both the
                    Voris and Vermilion families illustrate middle-class lives in a time of crisis. For military
                    historians interested in lower-level officers, social historians analyzing family, race, and gender
                    relations, and regional historians looking at particular states, these two editions will be
                    significant sources of evidence; and they are also interesting to read.
                A. JAMES FULLER is associate professor of history at the University of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and author of several books, including Chaplain to the Confederacy: Basil
                        Manly and Baptist Life in the Old South (2000).
            
            
                
                    Gentlemen, It's Been My Pleasure Four Decades in the Indiana Legislature, By
                    Senator Lawrence Borst (
                        Cincinnati
                    : Guild Press Emmis Books, 2003. Pp. 247. Illustrations. $24.99.)
                In a book that provides all the benefits of an insider's account and contains all the disadvantages
                    of being a personal recollection, former State Senator Lawrence M. Borst writes with three clear
                    objectives in mind. First, he tells the story of the formation and early years of the Republican
                    Action Committee of 
                        Marion
                     County, an organization that emerged under the leadership of Keith Bulen as one of the
                    very few urban political machines in the latter half of the 20th century. Borst describes the
                    strategies used by Bulen and his allies to expand their power, and he provides valuable details
                    about the methods used to construct a Republican machine that eventually won control of the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Next, he sets the record straight as to how Unigov was conceived, planned, and
                    implemented. His account clarifies several points about the origins of Unigov, including who coined
                    the name (Buert SerVaas) and the role that Keith Bulen played in designing the new government (very
                    little). Finally, Borst writes to tell the story of a friend, Indianapolis attorney Ed Lewis, "a
                    funny, shrewd man with all kinds of talents" (p. 8). To this third purpose, Borst provides some
                    interesting vignettes, but his anecdotes fail to provide authoritative documentation of the many
                    roles Lewis played behind the scenes in politics and government.
                The promise of this book lay in the number of key events and public policies over the past four
                    decades that might have been illuminated. Borst, as chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, was a
                    leading figure in framing the biennial state budgets and was the main architect of Indiana's tax
                    structure. He mentions that he was a conferee on every state budget since 1971. Unfortunately,  he provides little coverage of these items. He barely mentions
                    public education, with the exception of higher education and kindergarten, but it was usually
                    education funding that derailed the legislative sessions and caused governors to call special
                    sessions. He does provide some valuable details on the issue of gambling, including the legislative
                    fights on the lottery, pari-mutuel betting, and riverboat casinos. He presents his version of the
                    overhaul of the tax structure during the special session of 2002, but his story omits much of the
                    reasoning put forward by others that also became part of the package. He also recollects events
                    surrounding the passage of Governor Otis Bowen's tax package of 1973, but his brief mention contains
                    only anecdotes and fails to add anything new for the historical record.
                A memoir is self-selected and, for the most part, self-serving, by definition. This book is no
                    exception. Although it adds little substance, it does contain some valuable anecdotal insights into
                    the way the Indiana legislature operates and the reader is able to extract some lessons that advance
                    our understanding of the legislative process. The book lacks a consistent theme-something a watchful
                    editor could have provided-and an index would have been useful.
                As Lawrence Borst is leaving the legislature, the book title seems appropriate. Yet its origin is
                    rather surprising. Borst explains that while in a Las Vegas casino, he saw a welldressed man "with a
                    gorgeous blonde on his arm" who approached the craps table and promptly lost $30,000 (p. 237). The
                    gambler stepped back from the table, took two chips from his pocket, flipped them in the air and
                    onto the table and said, "Gentlemen, it has been my pleasure." Borst writes that he had never been
                    so impressed and that he wanted to have the phrase "engraved on my tombstone. I thought, too, that
                    it would make a good title for a book" (p. 238).
                RAYMOND H. SCHEELE is professor of political science at Ball State University, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana. His last book was Larry Conrad of Indiana: A Biography
                    (1997).
            
            
                
                    Envisioning Cahokia A Landscape Perspective, By Rinita A. Dalan, George R. Holley,
                    William I. Woods, Harold W. Waiters, Jr., and John A. Koepke, (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 2003. Pp. x, 241. Illustrations, maps, figures, appendix,
                    bibliography, index. Clothbound, $48.00; paperbound, $29.50.)
                Cahokia Mounds is the premier American Indian center in eastern North dred America. Within its
                    five-square-mile area were built more than one hundred earthen mounds, including Monks Mound, the
                    largest in the New  World. Today the state of 
                        Illinois
                     maintains nearly two thousand acres of this site as the Cahokia Mounds State Historic
                    Site. Also designated a National Historic Landmark and a United Nations World Heritage Site, Cahokia
                    is truly an American and world treasure that needs to be protected and preserved for future
                    generations.
                Over the past forty years archaeologists have attempted to unravel some of this center's meaning,
                    with over a dozen works on the site published in the last decade alone. The authors of this volume
                    bring to the topic nearly two decades of investigative experience at the site and its surrounding
                    region. The volume consists of three sections-each with multiple chapters, an introduction, and a
                    conclusion-all in the service of documenting the relationship between Cahokia's residents and their
                    physical surroundings.
                
                    Envisioning Cahokia's landscapebased perspective aims, in the authors’ words, to
                    "provide a less static interpretation of the past" than archaeologists customarily employ (p. 40).
                    In the first chapter, the authors unpack the concept of landscape and its many dimensions,
                    challenging the reader to go beyond a static temporal and spatial framework and consider a fluid and
                    dynamic perspective of the site. Thus, according to the authors, eighteenth- and nineteenth-century
                    Euro-Americans found a site that was actually the end product of over four hundred years of shaping
                    and reshaping the natural and cultural landscape. More significantly, although Cahokia is considered
                    a Mississippian center (with its period of greatest activity spanning from AD 1000-1400), the
                    authors demonstrate that its foundation lies in the earlier Emergent Mississippian period, when
                    initial work began on Monks Mound and on the adjacent Grand Plaza, at forty acres one of the largest
                    public spaces in the New World. The discovery of this massive earthmoving and leveling activity
                    constitutes one of the most important contributions of this group of scholars.
                As a researcher working at Cahokia, it is easy to take issue with the details and with some of the
                    authors’ interpretations. In their final section, "Landscape and Meaning," they tend to draw modern
                    parallels, referring to the original shapers of this landscape as architects, surveyors, and
                    engineers, and avoiding the use of American Indian perspectives that might have revealed a different
                    relationship with the natural world.
                In the end the authors provide an important addition to the growing stack of works on Cahokia; theirs
                    is a useful contribution and foundation that others will continue to build upon. I recommend this
                    book to any student of eastern North American archaeology and to those interested in the
                    relationship that all peoples have with the land as they shape and reshape the landscape.
                JOHN E. KELLY is a lecturer in the Department of Anthropology at 
                        Washington
                     University, 
                        St. Louis, Missouri
                    .
            
            
            
                
                    A Forest of Time American Indian Ways of History, By Peter Nabokov, (
                        Cambridge, England
                    : 
                        Cambridge
                     University Press, 2002. Pp. x, 246. Footnotes, index. $20.00.)
                In their classic work, Cherokee Dance and Drama (1951), anthropologists Frank Speck
                    and Leonard Broom documented an eastern Cherokee tradition known as the Booger dance. Boogers were
                    men wearing grotesquely humorous masks who interrupted gatherings at Cherokee houses and broke the
                    rules of Cherokee etiquette. They tried to pick fights and made obscene gestures toward women. They
                    spoke in ugly growls and acted unpredictably. They tried to dance like Cherokees, but their
                    movements were awkward and unseemly. The Boogers were more than rule-breakers. They represented
                    outsiders, with many of the masks offering misshapen versions of white men's faces. The dance, then,
                    not only illustrated the difference between proper and improper social behavior, but offered a
                    commentary on European conquest and on the Cherokees’ relations with their unwelcome neighbors. The
                    Booger dance was, in other words, a form of history telling.
                Peter Nabokov's A Forest of Time describes and examines a broad collection of such
                    American Indian "history ways." Drawing material from many different fields of scholarship, as well
                    as from his own research and experience, Nabokov searches for what he terms the fundamental
                    principles underlying most or all Native American expressions of history. His purpose is not simply
                    to argue that Indian stories can complement western-style histories, but to demonstrate that there
                    are distinct Indian forms of historical consciousness. These must be understood, he believes, if one
                    is to comprehend Native cultures and the American Indian experience.
                Native history ways, Nabokov emphasizes, reside in sources that academic historians tend to ignore or
                    underutilize: performance traditions, religious rituals, material objects worked by Indian hands,
                    place names, stories generally categorized as myths or folktales, and narratives of individual
                    encounters with the supernatural. While many of these sources appear to operate within a timeless,
                    mythic past, Nabokov points out that the stories themselves change over time in ways that one can
                    document using anthropological studies, travelers’ narratives, and folklore collections. Those
                    changes, he suggests, can in turn be correlated with historical events and developments. For
                    instance, scholars collected a vast number of trickster stories, some old and some apparently new,
                    in one of the most desperate eras of American Indian history, the period around the turn of the
                    twentieth century. Perhaps, Nabokov suggests, one can find in the flourishing of the trickster tale
                         a Native response to the suffering experienced in the
                    reservation era, with Indian people using the trickster to examine their condition and find ways to
                    survive. Tracing the changes in the stories one can document an ongoing Native American analysis of
                    colonial domination. What is particularly attractive about this idea is that one can start the
                    investigation with Native texts and Native cultural categories.
                
                    A Forest of Time represents Nabokov's effort to synthesize decades of reading in
                    multiple disciplines. The breadth of his source material alone makes the book highly valuable. In a
                    sense, Nabokov has created a body of literature, since he has brought heretofore scattered works
                    into conversation with one another. That is a significant feat, but the book is even more important
                    as a call for future scholarship. If this reviewer's experience is any indication, researchers in
                    Native American history will come away from A Forest of Time with ideas for
                    starting new projects and refining old ones. Those in American history, meanwhile, should be
                    inspired to bring Indian perspectives into their treatments of other peoples’ pasts. With grace and
                    imagination, Nabokov reminds us how much Native American cultures can contribute to our
                    understanding of life on this continent.
                ANDREW DENSON is an assistant professor of history at Western Carolina University, Cullowhee, 
                        North Carolina
                    .
            
            
                
                    Down to Earth Nature's Role in American History By Ted Steinberg (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 2002. Pp. xiv, 347. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $30.00.)
                Environmental historian Ted Steinberg concludes his Down to Earth with a warning:
                    "When it comes to the human control of nature, beware: Things rarely turn out the way they are
                    supposed to. The wind shifts, the earth moves, and now and again, when you least expect it, a flock
                    of birds swoops in for a meal" (p. 347). Those few lines summarize Steinberg's argument that a full
                    understanding of American history requires that we portray nature as an active player and not simply
                    as a backdrop in the evolution of human society over time. Social historians argue for writing
                    history from the bottom up; Steinberg contends that history also needs to be written "from the
                    ground up."
                Writing history in this way, Steinberg explains, demands that historians rethink the time periods
                    that they use to organize and interpret the past. From this perspective, three turning points mark
                    the history of America. First, with more than a nod to the  work
                    of Alfred Crosby, Steinberg argues that European arrival in North America precipitated a profound
                    ecological transformation, as two continents isolated for millions of years were suddenly
                    "reconnected." Europeans began an ongoing, accelerating process of moving and mixing plants,
                    animals, and micro-organisms around the world, with profound consequences for both natural and human
                    history. Steinbergs second major turning point is the rectangular survey promulgated by the Land
                    Ordinance of 1785. "The grid," he argues, "was to the rationalization of nature what the Declaration
                    of Independence was to freedom" (p. x). The final transition comes with the rise of consumerism in
                    the late nineteenth century. Commodification of nature, Steinberg concludes, was
                    the single most significant force in shaping and reshaping the natural world.
                Steinberg organizes Down to Earth around these turning points. Part I, "Chaos to
                    Simplicity," addresses Native Americans and their environment and the dramatic transformations
                    following European contact. Part II, "Rationalization and Its Discontents," examines the century
                    after 1790 with a focus on land, agriculture, and resource extraction. Part III, "Consuming Nature,"
                    considers the environmental consequences of the development of a modern consumer culture in the 
                        United States
                    . An accomplished and insightful historian and the author of several previous monographs
                    on American environmental history, Steinberg skillfully draws upon his own work and an impressive
                    body of related literature to offer a useful overview of the historical interplay between people and
                    their surroundings. The careful citations and an extensive bibliography will prove quite helpful,
                    the index is well organized and useful, and ample illustrations reinforce the text.
                While it would be possible to debate the fine points of the author's interpretation, Down to Earth
                    offers a well-written, interesting, and insightful examination of American history "from the ground
                    up." Steinberg is an excellent scholar who also knows how to tell a good story. Down to
                        Earth offers a good read for anyone interested in an overview of American
                    environmental history, and it should also work quite well in a variety of history and environmental
                    studies-related classes.
                PHILIP SCARPINO is an environmental historian and a public historian who chairs the Department
                    of History at Indiana University-Purdue University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . His most recent publication, co-edited with Martin Melosi, is Public and
                        Environmental History (2004).
            
            
            
                
                    At the Edge of Empire The Backcountry in British North America, By Eric Hinderaker
                    and Peter C. Mancall, (
                        Baltimore
                    : Johns Hopkins University Press, 2003. Pp. xii, 210. Illustrations, maps, notes, essay
                    on sources, index. Clothbound, $49.95; paperbound, $17.95.)
                
                    At the Edge of Empire offers students of British North America an ambitious and
                    well-written synthesis of "the territory that lay beyond the core settlements of mainland English
                    settlements" (p. 4). Eric Hinderaker and Peter Mancall begin their analysis in 
                        Ireland
                    , where Sir Humphrey Gilbert and other Englishmen like him created the first English
                    backcountry. Ruthless violence and dreamy visions of a better world dovetailed nicely for the
                    English in 
                        Ireland
                    , establishing a pattern that would be replicated from John Smith's Jamestown to Daniel 
                        Boone
                    's 
                        Kentucky
                     frontier. At the Edge of Empire makes sense of these varied locales,
                    reminding us to recognize particulars of time and place while not losing sight of the broader
                    patterns that characterized British colonization.
                Hinderaker and Mancall bring together their understanding of the multiple regions of colonial America
                    to identify many shared traits of the various British North American backcountries. First, they show
                    that success was elusive for backcountry immigrants because of incessant struggles with both Native
                    Americans and eastern elites, both of whom made it difficult for settlers to secure title to the
                    land. Consequently, backcountry settlers generally believed that justice was elusive, a sentiment by
                    Bacon's Rebellion, the Paxton Boys, and the Regulator movement. Such periodic spasms of violence in
                    the backcountry fostered stereotypes of lawlessness and irreligious behavior in the region that cut
                    across nearly three centuries of British colonization. But most importantly, the British emphasis on
                    settlement made a lasting impression on American identity. Access to and ownership of western lands
                    became a guiding principle of American nationalism.
                
                    At the Edge of Empire is organized around the competing and sometimes shared
                    interests of Native Americans, backcountry settlers, and the eastern elites and British officials
                    who tried to manage their affairs. The authors explore the distinctive cultures, economies, and
                    governments of the thirteen colonies, both as they affected each colony's relations to regional
                    tribes and as they fit into the wider legal and diplomatic structure of the British Empire.
                Readers will also appreciate Hinderaker and Mancall's rich analysis of Native Americans in the
                    British backcountry. Struggles over land, rather than disputes about trade or access to labor,
                    typically determined when and under what circumstances violence occurred. Indian-English alliances,
                    built around trade and mutual protection,  eventually succumbed
                    to violence as settlers advanced inexorably on Native Americans debilitated by disease and economic
                    dependency. The authors address the root causes of these violent confrontations in competing
                    philosophies regarding the land.
                Throughout At the Edge of Empire, the authors make an implicit argument about
                    British North American history: that the British did not plan on destroying tribes with Old World
                    diseases anymore than George 
                        Washington
                     set out to become an American through his actions at Fort Necessity, at the dawn of the
                    French and Indian War. Too many historians, in their view, read conspiracies into events that
                    resulted from the haphazard mingling of people over time. While deep-seated cultural and economic
                    goals informed both alliances and conflicts between British colonists and Native Americans, these
                    outcomes were not part of a coordinated three-hundred-year plan scripted by British colonizers.
                This narrative synthesis of the advancing British Empire is interrupted by brief but involved
                    explorations of specific wars, communities, and regions. The structure of At the Edge
                        of Empire advances Hinderaker and Mancall's goal of illustrating both the unity and the
                    diversity of British North America. Students and general readers will appreciate this highly
                    readable synthesis of the backcountrya moving region that was, in many ways, at the center of the
                    British Empire.
                STEPHEN WARREN is visiting assistant professor of history at Augustana College, 
                        Rock Island, Illinois
                    . His forthcoming book, the Shawnees and their Neighbors, 1795-1870,
                    explores the creation of modern tribal governments among the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley tribes.
            
            
                
                    The Indian Frontier, 1763-1846, By R. Douglas Hurt, (Albuquerque: University of 
                        New Mexico
                     Press, 2002. Pp. xvii, 300. Maps, illustrations, chronology, notes, bibliography,
                    index. Clothbound, $45.00; paperbound, $21.95.)
                Any scholar who studies Native American history, the American West, or Indian-White relations prior
                    to 1850 will find few surprises in this book. Nonetheless, they should take note of it. R. Douglas
                    Hurt, a prolific author and chair of the history department at Purdue University, has taken it upon
                    himself to produce a concise one-volume overview of nine distinct but overlapping frontier regions
                    over eight extremely complicated decades. Major players in his broad survey include civil,
                    religious, and military figures of Spanish, French, English, and American origins. Central also are
                    leaders and members of the Iroquois, Shawnee, Sauk, Cherokee, Comanche, Chickasaw, Mesquakie,
                    Seminole, Dakota, Ute and numerous other Indian  nations. With
                    such an immense cast of characters, multiple and evershifting frontier regions, continual changes
                    over time, and no central narrative to hold all of his disparate parts together, Hurt's project
                    seems destined to fail. Yet, somehow, it doesn't.
                Like most authors writing in the wake of Richard White's The Middle Ground (1991),
                    Hurt presents readers with a frontier that is a far cry from Frederick Jackson Turner's stark
                    dividing line between "civilization" and "savagery." Instead, Hurt writes of "zones of
                    encounter"-regions shaped by intercultural interaction and negotiation. These negotiations, he
                    points out, changed every group involved in them, "sometimes quickly, usually slowly, but
                    nonetheless decisively" (p. xv). No less than their European counterparts, Native people developed
                    strategies for dealing with changing circumstances and were never passive victims. As Hurt tells it,
                    the history of the regions that eventually became parts of the 
                        United States
                     is not always about conquest, rarely possessed a pre-ordained outcome, and was not even
                    always driven by European or American interests.
                None of this is original-or, by now, even surprising. Dozens of monographs have been written on this
                    subject for each of the regions and periods that Hurt describes; his impressive bibliography lists a
                    sizable portion of them and will serve as a valuable reading list for those readers who wish to
                    pursue the subject (or a particular aspect of it) in greater detail.
                Originality is not always the best indicator of a book's value. In completing this work of historical
                    synthesis, Hurt has provided a service to a variety of audiences. For those who teach classes in
                    U.S. history that cover the period prior to the mid-nineteenth century, he has presented smoothly
                    written chapters that provide a great deal of information and are easily comprehensible to
                    undergraduates. For graduate students preparing for qualifying exams in related fields or taking a
                    course outside their area of specialization, Hurt has provided an excellent overview, as well as
                    thorough documentation and an extensive reading list. Most importantly, though, he has provided a
                    history of Indian-White relations for general readers that emphasizes conflict but is not really
                    about warfare. Nor does it dwell on a particular region or narrow time period at the expense of all
                    others. In effect, Hurt has adopted a comparative approach to frontier studies, summed up a decade
                    of scholarship, and packaged the result for popular consumption.
                Too often, academics write only for other academics. With The Indian Frontier, Hurt
                    has demonstrated that complex ideas and situations can be conveyed to non-specialists without
                    sacrificing their complexity or their richness. Moreover, Hurt makes it look deceptively easy. One
                    can only hope that readers of all stripes will appreciate his efforts.
                
                MICHAEL SHERFY is a Ph.D. candidate in American history at the University of 
                        Illinois, Urbana
                    -
                        Champaign
                    . His dissertation, "Narrating Black Hawk: Constructing and Reconstructing a Native
                    American Historical Subject," will be completed later this year.
            
            
                
                    The Mythic Meanings of the Second Amendment Taming Political Violence in a
                        Constitutional Republic, By David C. Williams, (
                        New Haven
                    : Yale University Press, 2003. Pp. x, 397. Notes, index. $45.00.)
                Almost thirty years ago, in The Gun in America (1975), Lee Kennett and James
                    Anderson concluded that "time works against the gun" (p. 255). Yet, since this prediction, debates
                    over the Second Amendment have only continued, heating with time. Now enters David Williams, John S.
                    Hastings Professor of Law at Indiana University School of Law, 
                        Bloomington
                    , who proposes to reduce the heat by constructing a new myth for these new times. An
                    early participant in the most recent wave of polemical battles, Williams uses this book to solidify
                    his arguments, while answering friends and critics-particularly Gary Wills, Saul Cornell, Robert
                    Cover, and Sanford Levinson-and dismissing by silence those who composed the friendly brief in U.S.
                    v Emerson (2001).
                The book is divided into three parts: the first is a foray into the period of the founding; the
                    second, a survey of the complex present understandings of myths and political violence; the third, a
                    proposed remedy for the current confusions over the meaning and significance of the Second Amendment
                    and, by implication, a prescription for judicial action. Here Williams concludes that as
                    "disciplining violence is the first task of constitutional order, it is also the first duty of
                    citizenship" (p. 313).
                Williams's historical vision is inextricably intertwined with his idealism. His reading of the Second
                    Amendment leads him to assert that "the right to bear arms belongs to the Body of the People, which
                    is a sui generis element of eighteenth-century theory: the citizenry as a
                    collectivity organized into a universal militia and unified by a common culture" (p. 70). Of course,
                    such a vision of society did not survive the rapid growth and change of the nineteenth century,
                    although the author includes little discussion of its erosion over time.
                Williams states his thesis most clearly in the final section of the book. Here, he makes a plea for
                    "restructuring" the Second Amendment by creating a new American unity built upon "the revival of a
                    common life," and prescribes the construction of a new "myth" of "civic trust" (pp. 320,  322). The author's vision for this new unity rests upon a number of
                    assumed historical constructs, most of which are debatable.
                Many of Williams's readers will question whether the framers "gave" rights. This modern understanding
                    of the state as a cornucopia of rights-giving is antithetical to much of the eighteenth-century
                    literature regarding natural rights. Instead, the founding fathers spoke of the government of the
                    self (which necessarily included a bundle of rights that was the birthright of all), a concept
                    popularized in Thomas Paine's Common Sense and then formally asserted in the
                    Declaration of Independence and codified in the constitutional imperative that "to secure these
                    rights, governments are instituted among men."
                Williams's treatment of the Second Amendment itself is equally problematic. He views the amendment as
                    unique, even as he notes and discusses the significance of Article One, Section Eight, with its
                    enumeration of the Congress's power to raise and arm a militia. In contrast, many historians have
                    viewed the Second Amendment in the broader context of the entire Bill of Rights.
                Finally, this work raises but does not entirely answer the question of the importance of federalism,
                    both at the founding and since that time. Because Williams pays little attention to the Articles and
                    argues against the "states’ rights" defense of the Second Amendment, he overlooks a critical chapter
                    in the history of American citizenship. In contrast, James Kettner in The Development
                        of American Citizenship (1978) emphasized statebased volitional allegiance as the original
                    understanding of American citizenship, and an indispensable aspect of eighteenth-century theory of
                    the government of the self.
                Nagging details pile up throughout the book, subtracting from its presentation. Williams gives too
                    little careful attention to U.S. v Miller (1939) and the recent decisions of the
                    U.S. Fifth and Ninth Circuit Courts. He inexplicably relies upon the discredited work of Michael
                    Bellesiles while several documentary collections (among them, histories of ratification and of the
                    first federal congress, including the 1991 collection Creating the Bill of Rights)
                    go uncited and presumably unused. Herbert Storing's editorial and monographic work on the
                    anti-federalists is nowhere to be seen. Finally, a careful reading of the book's notes raises
                    questions as to the work of Williams's own editors. The inconsistencies of citation and other lapses
                    (which include mention of James 
                        Madison
                     introducing the Bill of Rights in 1792) suggest a carelessness that undermines the
                    arguments of this book.
                GEORGE M. CURTIS, III, is professor of American history at 
                        Hanover
                     College, 
                        Hanover
                    , Indiana.
            
            
            
                
                    Life in 
                            Prairie
                         Land, By Eliza W. Farnham. Introduction by John Hallwas, (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2003. Pp. xxxv, 269. Introduction, notes. $19.95.)
                Eliza Farnham's Life in 
                            Prairie
                         Land, originally published in 1846, is a classic account of early settlements
                    on the 
                        Illinois
                     prairies. Increased scholarly interest in rural women's history and midwestern
                    settlement makes the University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press's reissue of the 1988 edition timely and welcome. Farnham, a New Yorker who lived
                    in the 
                        Illinois
                     Territory for about four years, reveals as much about herself as an eastern woman,
                    steeped in the ideology of domesticity but troubled by inequities in patriarchal society, as she
                    does about the nature of early nineteenth-century 
                        Illinois
                    .
                John Hallwas's introduction offers salient background on Farnham's postIllinois career as a writer
                    and reformer influenced by Transcendentalism, spiritualism, and ideas of female moral superiority.
                    Hallwas also illustrates Farnham's method of setting up contrasts between nature as a beneficent
                    garden and as a dangerous force, and between antithetical forms of human behavior. This useful
                    introduction, however, was not revised for the 2003 edition and thus is not informed by recent
                    scholarship on rural, women's, gender, or reform history.
                Eliza Farnham, an opinionated observer, did not hesitate to mock some of those she
                    encounteredespecially "Kaintuckians" and "Hooshiers." She presented dichotomous views of her sister
                    Mary, a refined New Yorker and civilizer, and Mary's neighbor from 
                        Kentucky
                     whose family lived in squalor because of the "incapacity of the mistress of this family
                    to appreciate a better condition, or help to create one" (p. 39). Women could either elevate
                    societytheir ascribed role-or they could degenerate in response to the harsh conditions.
                Those interested in Indiana lore will relish Farnham's hilarious conversations with a "red-flanneled
                    Hooshier." Despite her depiction of an insensitive, chauvinistic lout, one detects in the Hoosier's
                    remarks about his new wife the same practicality and pragmatism evident in letters and diaries of
                    nineteenth-century Indiana farmers. Accused by Farnham of trapping his wife like a bird in a cage,
                    the Hoosier replies that he "shouldn't make much account of havin’ a bird in my cabin, but a good
                    stout woman I should calculate was worth something. She can pay her way, and do a handsome thing
                    besides, helpin’ me on the farm" (p. 19). Farnham's efforts to enlighten him about treatment of
                    women in "our country" are unavailing. Remarking that Yankees can treat women as they choose, he
                    explains that he does not "think a woman's of much account anyhow, if she can't help herself a
                    little and me too. If the Yankee woman was raised up like the women here aar,
                    they'd cost a heap less and be worth more" (p. 22).
                
                As she travels around the region, Farnham describes nature's glorious abundance as well as its
                    destructive power; she ruminates on "the fraudulent precipitancy" with which settlers have sealed
                    the fate of the area's Native Americans; and she explains her understanding of the reciprocity
                    between the land and the people (p. 226). Death is a frequent presence in Farnham's account; during
                    a twoweek period in the summer of 1838, Farnham lost her sister and firstborn child. Few accounts of
                    children's deaths in nineteenth-century sources are rendered with as much emotional intensity.
                    Elsewhere a father, absent to buy provisions, returns to find his home burned; encountering
                    "perishing children, an infant corpse, a dying wife," he can only "curse… the treacherous beauty
                    that invited him there" (p. 184).
                Despite such vivid glimpses of the harsh realities of prairie life, Farnham leaves little doubt about
                    what she considers to be nature's ultimate "plan": prairie settlement, she proclaims, will reveal
                    how "great, and good, and strong, is man when left to govern himself; free from want, from
                    oppression, from ignorance, from fear!" (p. 268).
                BARBARA STEINSON is University Professor and professor of history at DePauw University, 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana. She is revising an earlier work, American Women's Activism in
                        World War I, and completing a manuscript on rural life in Indiana.
            
            
                
                    War Against the Weak Eugenics and America's Campaign to Create a Master Race By
                    Edwin Black (
                        New York
                    : Four Walls Eight Windows, 2003. Pp. index. $27.00.)
                The rise of the pseudoscience of eugenics and the sociopolitical use of its unproven theories form
                    one of the darkest chapters in medical history. Edwin Black extensively reviews archival materials
                    to document the connections between eugenics in the 
                        United States
                     and the work of the German Nazis. He argues that flawed American research in the first
                    three decades of the twentieth century provided an apparently rational cover for Hitler's deranged
                    plans, and explores, in the last two chapters, how the findings of modern genetics might well be
                    misused today.
                Eugenics in America combined a distortion of nineteenth-century scientific discoveries with the
                    misinterpretation of sociological trends at the turn of the twentieth century. Darwin's theories
                    opened new vistas on the natural world, biomedical and psychological research advanced, and Mendel's
                    work defining inheritance of simple traits in plants was rediscovered  after fifty years. For many Progressive Era scientists and social
                    theorists, the possibility for human improvement seemed limitless.
                Francis Gal ton, a cousin of Darwin who was interested in animal breeding and in statistical
                    measurement of human populations, invented the term eugenics. He combined Darwinian natural
                    selection and the concept of inherited traits to promote the idea of positive eugenics, with the
                    implication that his own advantaged class should intermarry and produce superior progeny to improve
                    the human race. Galton did note, however, that eugenics was not yet scientifically provable.
                Many Americans distorted Galton's views into a negative eugenics that promulgated prevention of
                    reproduction by the so-called inferior classes: the poor, the severely mentally ill, the
                    intellectually disadvantaged, convicts, and recent immigrants not of the "Nordic race," i.e., the
                    weak and powerless. Tragically, many respected American physicians, scientists, academics, and
                    philanthropists bought into this notion. In order to document the connection between 
                        Germany
                     in the 1930s and American eugenicists, Black focuses on these eugenicists rather than
                    on those who opposed them.
                Indiana contributed its share of this group. Dr. Harry Clay Sharp began performing extralegal medical
                    castration of males at the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     Reformatory in the late 1890s as a cure for excessive masturbation. He later accepted
                    ideas appearing in the medical literature at the time that vasectomy of convicts would prevent the
                    propagation of a criminal class, and he became the world expert in the three-minute procedure, which
                    used no anesthesia. Reverend Oscar McCulloch, a leading reformer and advocate of public charity from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , twisted sociological studies calling for social reform into a fervid belief in
                    hereditary determinism uninfluenced by environmental factors. He performed genealogical
                    investigation of a "degenerate" family, the Tribe of Ishmael, though his conclusions have not been
                    substantiated by reexamination of his pseudoscientific data. Former Indiana University President
                    David Starr 
                        Jordan
                     became the 
                        United States
                    ’ leading eugenic theorist with the publication of Blood oj a Nation
                    (1902), which Black quotes as arguing, "The pauper is the victim of heredity but neither Nature nor
                    Society recognizes that as an excuse for his existence." Dr. J. N. Hurty, secretary of the Indiana
                    State Board of Health and later president of the American Public Health Association, lobbied the
                    Indiana legislature to pass a law legalizing involuntary sterilization. His attempts repeatedly
                    failed until 1907 when Sharp pressured Governor J. Frank Hanly, and the legislature finally passed
                    the law making Indiana the first jurisdiction in the world to legislate involuntary sterilization of
                    mentally impaired patients, poorhouse residents, and prisoners.
                Although much has been written about involuntary sterilization in 
                    America, Edwin Black's investigation into the background of eugenics and the people who vigorously
                    promoted it is among the most thoroughly researched studies to date. His presentation is balanced;
                    the story it tells is fascinating-and frightening.
                LUCY JANE KING is a board member of the Indiana Medical History Museum, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and the author of From Under the Cloud at Seven Steeples, the Peculiarly
                        Saddened Life of Anna Agnew at the Indiana Hospital for the Insane, 1878-1885
                (2002).
            
            
                
                    Blue-Collar Hollywood Liberalism, Democracy, and Working People in American Film,
                    By John Bodnar, (
                        Baltimore
                    : Johns Hopkins University Press, 2003. Pp. xxxiv, 284. Illustrations, notes, sources,
                    index. $42.95.)
                For nearly a century, working people -ordinary men and women-have been frequent subjects in one of
                    the most powerful forms of mass culture: the American film. In Blue-Collar
                    Hollywood, historian John Bodnar presents an important investigation and critique of
                    characterizations of working people in "the movies," and of the way in which film-making interacts
                    with American political and social traditions.
                Bodnar brings his understanding of political, social, and cinematic history to bear on a number of
                    significant films, arranged by era from the 1930s to the 1990s, including The Grapes of
                        Wrath, Pride of the Marines, A Street Car Named Desire, A Raisin in the Sun, Raging Bull, and
                        Norma Rae. As intriguing as the author's investigation into the characters populating the
                    movies themselves is his history of the development of American political culture over sixty years,
                    and of how that culture, in turn, shaped the nature of the film industry and its product. Bodnar
                    demonstrates a superb grasp of relevant political theory as well as current historiography to
                    underpin his analysis of the movies. His interpretation of the role of the family in The Grapes of Wrath, for example, includes a presentation of the essential film narrative
                    and analysis of character roles, a sense of the production issues and decisions that affected the
                    resulting film, an examination of the political and social cultures of the era and their
                    relationships with the film, a review of public and governmental engagement with the film, and
                    finally, his analysis of the interplay among these variables.
                The main theoretical thrust of Bodnar's book lies in his interest in the relationship between
                    Hollywood's portrayal of working people and the power of two principal (and often competing)
                    American political traditions: liberalism and democracy. As such, the work addresses a wide range of
                    social and political issues, such as  the roles of family and
                    women, race, social and economic class, the impact of war and McCarthyism, civil rights, poverty,
                    and much more. Bodnar concludes that, like American society at large, movie images of ordinary
                    people were never constant: their values and principles evolved within, and were reflective of, the
                    fluidity and evolution of political culture.
                Criticism of this work is largely a matter of interpretation, rather than of factual disagreement. It
                    is by nature a theoretical and critical study, and a selective one at that. The range of films
                    investigated is small compared to the universe of movie production over the past six decades. The
                    author does not claim comprehensiveness-an impossible task-but one could debate Bodnar's selection
                    of films for review. For example, a full discussion of film noir would have been appropriate for
                    this work. A truly American genre with a tremendous impact upon movie making, film noir explored
                    working-class issues of postwar disillusionment, urban malaise, crime, labor, and the fundamental
                    economic and social failings of liberalism and democracy. And scholars could, of course, debate the
                    author's particular interpretations of recent political writings and history.
                Such criticisms will not, however, detract from the conclusion that Bodnar has written a fine book.
                    It is a significant work and should be read by those who seek insight into the role of the film
                    industry in mass culture, its interaction with politics and society at large, and its portrayal of
                    the majority of people living in the 
                        United States
                    : ordinary working men and women.
                MIKE SMITH is director of the Walter P. Reuther Library, 
                        Wayne
                     State University, 
                        Detroit, Michigan
                    . A film buff, Smith has published books and articles, as well as assisted in the making
                    of several film documentaries, in the fields of labor, automotive, and urban history.
            
            
                
                    Behind the Gates Life, Security, and the Pursuit of Happiness in Fortress America,
                    By Setha Low, (
                        New York
                    : Routledge, 2003. Pp. xi, 275. Illustrations, appendices, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $26.00.)
                Recent political debates have focused on the power and function of the public and private economic
                    sectors in determining land use in our suburban nation. The traditional public role in the
                    development process-of providing public infrastructure and public spaces-has been transformed under
                    the banner of fiscal conservatism and as a reaction to unwanted sprawl. Additionally, fear of crime
                    and of the erosion of property values has promoted the insularity and antiurbanism manifest in the
                    proliferation  of "gated communities." Behind the
                        Gates abstracts the debate over this trend, demonstrating the folly of the "gated"
                    lifestyle through the analytical insights of an environmental psychologist.
                Setha Low, a professor of anthropology and environmental psychology, interviewed householders in 
                        New York
                     City, Long Island, and San Antonio. Bridging the anthropologist's role as a neutral
                    observer with the behavioral scientist's focus on environmental interaction, she examines the
                    psychological dimension of her subjects’ actions in both demanding and responding to this built
                    environment.
                Low's findings are highly critical of the residents of modern gated communities. As a rule, she finds
                    that they shun pluralism and pursue homogeneity as a way of protecting a lifestyle. Underlying this
                    lifestyle is a racism not unlike the anti-Semitism Low experienced growing up in West 
                        Los Angeles
                    . Theirs is also a nostalgic movement, as these baby boom buyers, in their peak earning
                    years, seek the sense of protection they recall from the pre-Levittown neighborhoods of their
                    childhood.
                Yet the "security" of gated communities is belied by the fact that the "gate" provides no greater
                    measure of safety than other forms of suburbia. Furthermore, it comes at a cost to basic rights.
                    Condominium and homeowners’ associations act as private, local governments, collecting taxes in the
                    form of mandatory fees and supplying the civic goods of protection and the amenities of land uses,
                    utilities, and services. Such associations represent a step away from democracy and toward
                    feudalism; they place the power in "freeholders" who, as economist Charles Tiebout characterizes,
                    may all vote with their feet.
                Low, the psychologist, concludes that emotion, not reason, is the prime motivation for accepting such
                    a cost. Beyond a small note to history in chapter one, Low is not a historian; she misses a chance
                    to point out the deep roots of this privatization of planning in the evolution from Ebenezer
                    Howard's early 
                        Garden City
                     movement through the Euclidean zoning of the 1920s and the creation of such planned
                    communities as Forest Hills in Queens, 
                        New York
                    . Instead, she draws on such recent work as Mike Davis's study of ethnic spatial
                    segregation and the marginalization of the poor in 
                        Los Angeles
                    
                    (City of Quartz, 1990), as well as Edward Blakely and Mary Gail Snyder's Fortress America (1997), a more direct study of the gated phenomenon.
                To this discussion Low brings insightful observation, based largely on the survey, and impressive
                    empiricism and analysis. Low's position in the debate over gated communities is apparent. Taking
                    issue both with neoclassical economists, such as Tiebout, and with production homebuilders who favor
                    gates, she remains committed to a land-use policy rooted in democratic pluralism. This book's
                    combination of style, scholarship, and  significance commands
                    attention from the academic and civic communities.
                BRUCE FRANKEL is chair and professor of urban planning, Ball State University, and author of
                    "New Urbanist Development Economics," Urban Land (August 2001), and "Smarter
                    Growth: The Way of the Mega-PUD," Planning (September 1999).
            
            
                
                    Racism A Short History, By George M. Frederickson, (
                        Princeton
                    , N. J.: 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 2002. Pp. x, 207. Appendix, notes, index. Paperbound, $14.95.)
                In this sweeping, provocative book, George Fredrickson explores the development of racism and
                    anti-Semitism from the Middle Ages to the present. For Fredrickson, the term racism has become so
                    "loaded and ambiguous" that he has taken it as his duty to historicize the term, to explain the way
                    people have thought about race and used it to construct social and cultural hierarchies over the
                    last millennium (p. 151). Racism, in Fredrickson's view, is not just prejudicean attitude or set of
                    beliefsbut involves the creation and use of practices, institutions, and structures that allow a
                    dominant group to establish a racial order that they believe reflects the law of nature or God's
                    will.
                To make his case about what racism means and how it developed, Fredrickson divides his book into
                    three chapters. The first covers the long span from the Middle Ages to the start of the eighteenth
                    century. Particularly in the earlier part of that era, most Europeans worried more about people's
                    religious beliefs than about their skin color or Judaic ancestry. Being black or Jewish might mark a
                    person as inferior, but it was an inferiority that could be rectified by conversion to Christianity.
                    Racism did not flourish because there was not yet an ideology that led people to see race as
                    inherent and unalterable.
                That essentialist ideology developed in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries with the rise of what
                    Fredrickson in chapter two calls "modern racism" (p. 49). In one of the West's greatest paradoxes,
                    the Enlightenment and racism grew together. This was no mere coincidence, but instead revealed the
                    Janusfaced nature of the Enlightenment. On the one hand, this system of rational thinking subverted
                    old hierarchies based on "faith, superstition, and prejudice." On the other hand, it created new
                    inequalities based on "reason, science, and history" (p. 63). Science, starting with the work of
                    Linnaeus in 1735, began ranking the human species with "acute, inventive" Europeans at the top and
                    "crafty, indolent" blacks and unscrupulous, clannish Jews at the bottom (p. 56).
                
                This new vision led dominant groups in 
                        Germany
                    , the 
                        United States
                    , and 
                        South Africa
                     to believe their societies would only survive if they created "racist regimes" (pp.
                    100-101). These regimes, which Fredrickson analyzes in chapter three, had several features that
                    distinguished them from earlier racist societies: they employed explicitly racist official
                    ideologies; they forbade interracial marriage; they mandated social segregation by law; they
                    excluded the subordinate group from formal political participation; and they forced the oppressed
                    into poverty. Nazi 
                        Germany
                    , the Jim Crow South, and apartheid 
                        South Africa
                     implemented all of these rules and thus represented the climax of racism in the Western
                    world. None of these regimes survived World War II and the Cold War-a fact that, in Fredrickson's
                    view, offers little solace. In the future, he argues in an absorbing epilogue, new systems of
                    domination may arise based on religion rather than race.
                This is a powerful book, one that only a scholar with decades of experience could have written. While
                    Fredrickson supplies little new research, he draws on the historiography of three nations and the
                    newest theories of racial formation to make his case. His synthesis offers new ways of thinking
                    about racism in a broad temporal and geographic context, forcing us to think beyond national
                    boundaries and narrow time frames. It also shows how racism and anti-Semitism create analogous if
                    not identical systems of oppression. In all, this is a crucial book for anyone who wants to make
                    sense of the way racism has developed in the Western world.
                JAMES WOLFINGER is an assistant professor of history and education at DePaul University, 
                        Chicago
                    . He is currently revising his book-length manuscript, From Roosevelt Coalition to
                    Republican Majority: Race, Labor, and Politics in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , 1932-1955."
            
            
            
                REVIEW NOTICES
                NEW
                    OR RECENT BOOKS
                    ON THE CIVIL WAR
                
                
                    The Struggle for the Life of the Republic A Civil War Narrative by Brevet Major Charles
                        Dana Miller, 76th 
                            Ohio
                         Volunteer Infantry Edited by Stewart Bennett and Barbara Tillery (
                        Kent, Ohio
                    : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 2004. Pp. xxiii, 301. Illustrations, map, appendices, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $34.00.)
                The narrative of Charles Dana Miller (1836-1898), written sometime between May 1869 and 1881, is a
                    richly detailed memoir by a first sergeant (later first lieutenant) of the 76th 
                        Ohio
                     Volunteer Regiment, Company C. Miller served from October 1861 through November 1864,
                    seeing action at 
                        Shiloh
                    , Vicksburg, and 
                        Atlanta
                    , among other battles. Miller remained involved in veteran's societies throughout the
                    remainder of his life, perhaps prompting him to pen his own reminiscences. Bennett and Tillery,
                    following an earlier transcription of the manuscript, break the narrative into chapters with a brief
                    summary of contents at the beginning of each.
                "The Supply for Tomorrow Must Not Fail", The Civil War of Captain Simon Perkins, Jr., a
                        Union Quartermaster, By Lenette S. Taylor (
                        Kent, Ohio
                    : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 2004. Pp. xv, 264. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $35.00.)
                This book draws attention to quartermasters, heretofore neglected officers in Civil War studies.
                    Descendants of Captain Simon Perkins, Jr., donated eight crates containing 20,000 of his
                    quartermaster-related documents to the Summit County (
                        Ohio
                    ) Historical Society, and Taylor has used them to draw a detailed picture of Perkins’ s
                    day-to-day work of supplying goods to the military and managing railroad transport. From February
                    1862 to July 1864, Perkins served with the Army of the 
                        Ohio
                    , the Army of the Cumberland, and the Department of the North.
                
                
                    Three Years with Wallace's Zouaves The Civil War Memoirs of Thomas 
                            Wise
                         Durham, Edited by Jeffrey L. Patrick, (Macon, Ga.: Mercer University Press,
                    2003. Pp. xxii, 198. Illustrations, maps, bibliography, index. $35.00.)
                Hailing from 
                        Montgomery
                     County, Durham served in Company G of the 1 lth Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and saw
                    action in the battles of Fort Donelson, 
                        Shiloh
                    , and Champion Hill, and the siege of Vicksburg. The illustrations are uncited, some of
                    the footnotes appear on the incorrect pages, and the annotations are at times incomplete. However,
                    Durham provides enlightening commentary on Wallace (whom he considers blameless at 
                        Shiloh
                    ), Sherman ("as a ‘cusser’ he was the finest artist in the business" [p. 125]), and
                    daily soldier life (smoking, brawling, and cussing).
                
                    To Battle for God and the Right The Civil War Letterbooks of Emerson Opdycke,
                    Edited by Glen V. Longacre and John E. Haas Foreword by Peter Cozzens, (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2003. Pp. xxxv, 332. Notes, illustrations, appendices, bibliography, index.
                    $34.95.)
                This edited collection of letters provides a comprehensive narrative of a volunteer soldier in the
                    Army of the Cumberland. From August 1861 to August 1865, Opdycke wrote lengthy and frequent letters
                    to his wife, describing details of his life with the 41st 
                        Ohio
                     Volunteer Infantry and later the 125th 
                        Ohio
                    , and revealing in the process his complex character. Opdycke, who was eventually
                    discharged with the rank of brigadier general in early 1865, was best known for defying his superior
                    officer in the Battle of 
                        Franklin, Tennessee
                    , in November 1864-an act that helped to ensure a Union victory there.
                
                    The Longest Raid of the Civil War Little Known and Untold Stories of Morgan's Raid into 
                            Kentucky
                        , Indiana, and 
                            Ohio
                        
                     By Lester V Horwitz, (
                        Cincinnati
                    : Farmcourt Publishing, Inc., 2001. Rev. ed. Pp. xx. Illustrations, maps, appendix,
                    notes, index. Clothbound, $34.95; paperbound, $29.95.)
                This is the first book-length study of John Hunt Morgan's raid through 
                        Tennessee, Kentucky
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Ohio
                     between July 1 and July 26, 1863. Morgan's was the longest raid behind enemy lines in
                    the Civil War, involving 2,500 men and covering 900 miles in less than a month. The raid resulted in
                    the only battle on Indiana soilthe Battle of Corydon. Horwitz became interested in Morgan's Raid
                    after purchasing an old 
                        Cincinnati
                     farmhouse from which Morgan's men had stolen, and his detailed research reflects a
                    passion for finding written and oral histories of the raid.
                
                OTHER NEW
                    OR RECENT BOOKS
                
                
                    Calumet Beginnings Ancient Shorelines and Settlements at the South End of Lake 
                            Michigan
                        
                    , By Kenneth J. Schoon, (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2003. Pp. x, 247. Maps, illustrations, glossary,
                    bibliographic essay, works cited, index. $24.95.)
                Schoon narrates the geological, biological, and human history of northern Indiana's Calumet region,
                    focusing on Lake, Porter, and 
                        La Porte
                     counties. Schoon describes four distinct Native American eras (spanning more than
                    10,000 years), then goes on to trace the story of early European travel, the creation of the
                    Northwest Territory after the Revolutionary War, the changes brought by white settlement, and the
                    growth of the railroad after the Civil War. He follows this general narrative with short histories
                    of each town in the region through the early twentieth century, with postscripts highlighting recent
                    positive developments in each community's history. Readers will especially enjoy this volume's many
                    maps, portraits, and other photographs.
                
                    Go Forth and Do Good Memorable Notre Dame Commencement Addresses, Edited by Wilson
                    D. Miscamble Foreword by Theodore M. Hesburgh, (Notre Dame, Ind.: University of Notre Dame Press,
                    2003. Pp. xvii, 293. Illustrations, appendix. $25.00.)
                The speeches given at University of Notre Dame commencements, and the identity of the individuals
                    selected to give them, offer a glimpse of the changing concerns and status of Catholics in America,
                    as well as of Notre Dame's prominent place in American Catholic life. The speakers chosen for this
                    collection comprise national and international politicians -including three American presidents-and
                    prominent Catholic leaders such as Bishop John 
                        Lancaster
                     Spalding (1886) and Joseph Cardinal Bernadin (1983). The collection begins with William
                    Tecumseh Sherman's address in 1865 and ends with President George W Bush's in 2001. A portrait of
                    the speaker accompanies each selection.
                
                    Indiana Cars A History of the Automobile in Indiana, By Dennis E. Hovarth and
                    Terri Hovarth, (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Hoosier Auto Show & Swap Meet, Inc., 2002. Pp. 197. Illustrations, appendices,
                    reading resources, glossary, index. $29.95.)
                This book provides a detailed look at the automotive and truck industry in Indiana from the 1890s to
                    the present, with an emphasis on the period through the 1920s, when car, truck, and parts
                    manufacturing were at their peak in the state. The book also contains brief biographies of Indiana
                    automotive pioneers and appendices  that include listings of
                    state car museums and car clubs. The authors have included useful details about each vehicle as well
                    as many photographs of vehicles, industry leaders, and advertisements.
                
                    Play On Celebrating 100 Years of High School Sports in Indiana,
                    By Bill Beck Foreword by Frank O'Bannon, ([
                        Indianapolis
                    ]: Indiana High School Athletic Association, 2003. Pp. 166. Illustrations. $29.95.)
                
                    Play On chronicles one-hundred years of Indiana high school sports since the
                    establishment of the Indiana High School Athletic Association in December 1903. Not surprisingly,
                    much of the book focuses on boy's basketball, one of the oldest sports (along with boy's track and
                    field) to have an Indiana state high school championship. In addition to celebrating great players
                    and memorable teams, Beck also considers more difficult aspects of this history, including the
                    effects of racial segregation through the early 1940s, school consolidation in the late 1960s, and
                    the establishment of the basketball class system in 1996. Readers will enjoy the many photographs
                    and handsome design of the book.
                
                    Pioneer in Tibet The Life and Perils of Dr. Albert Shelton, By Douglas A. Wissing, (
                        New York
                    : Palgrave Macmillan, 2004. Pp. xiii, 334. Maps, illustrations, notes, sources, index.
                    $29.95.)
                Wissing, an independent journalist, Indiana University alumnus, and 
                        Bloomington
                     resident, tells the life story of Albert Shelton, the Indianaborn Disciples of Christ
                    missionary and physician who lived for two seven-year spans in the remote eastern Tibetan region of
                    Kham with his wife and two daughters. On breaks between mission trips, Shelton and his family
                    returned to the 
                        United States
                     to do publicity, raise funds, and sell their Tibetan art collections to the 
                        Newark
                     Museum. Early into his third trip, Shelton was killed by robbers. Anyone interested in
                    the history of Asian Christian missionaries or the unlikely connections between Indiana and Tibet
                    will enjoy this book.
            
            
            
                LETTERS
                
                    
                        
                            
                                To the Editor,
                                I enjoyed reading the "conversation" with Reid Williamson (president of Historic
                                    Landmarks Foundation of Indiana) and Sal Cilella (president and CEO of the Indiana
                                    Historical Society) that appeared in the June issue. The Journal of
                                        Urban History ran a series of similar interviews some years ago, and they
                                    were always interesting and often informative. I hope the Indiana
                                        Magazine of History will publish similar pieces in the future.
                                I do, however, have one concern: the manner in which the interview was titled.
                                    Calling it "The State of Public History in Indiana" suggests that there is a
                                    monolithic public history community in the state and that Sal and Reid speak for it.
                                    Such is not the case. Indeed, since they direct the two largest and best-endowed
                                    historical organizations in Indiana, they are automatically unrepresentative of the
                                    state's public history community writ large.
                                A case in point is their unequivocal support for the creation of a Department of
                                    Indiana Heritage. Whether this is theoretically a good idea or not (even leaving
                                    aside the flawed legislation proposed thus far) is clearly open to debate, and it
                                    would be a mistake for your readers to assume, based on the interview, that all of
                                    the state's public historians are in agreement on this subject. In fact, those who
                                    would be most directly affected by such a proposal-the employees of the agencies
                                    involvedare precluded by the nature of their positions from speaking publicly on the
                                    merits and demerits of the plan.
                                In short, Clio's house has many mansions. While the opinions of the presidents of
                                    HLFI and IHS are of obvious interest, readers of the IMH should not be misled by the
                                    title of the interview into believing that those opinions reflect the beliefs of all
                                    public historians in Indiana.
                                
                                    ROBERT G. BARROWS
                                    
                                    
                              INDIANA UNIVERSITY–PURDUE UNIVERSITY, INDIANAPOLIS
                              
                           
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
            
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
        
    
