
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 47, Issue 3, pages 241-320. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:47+issue:3+year:1951&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Some Projects in Midwest Cultural History
            John T. Flanagan∗
            When young Lincoln Steffens entered the University of 
                        California
                     as a student, he flung himself with energy and optimism into the pursuit of truth. But
                    he soon discovered that not only was truth elusive and protean but knowledge itself was deceptive
                    and insecure. The social sciences were only beginning to show some objective validity, the physical
                    sciences constantly required revision and codification, the arts aspired nobly to a perfection which
                    they never quite reached. To Steffens, eager for reliable and final answers, the situation was
                    perplexing. "Nothing is done," he cried out in exasperation, "Everything
                    in the world remains to be done or done over."1
            
            While the student of the cultural history of the Middle West is not precisely in Steffens'
                    predicament, he too is constantly aware of uninvestigated areas of life, unsolved problems,
                    unwritten biographies, and unpublished records. Despite a spate of articles, monographs, and books
                    in the last fifty years, with the literary record constantly amplifying and ramifying, the picture
                    is still considerably short of complete. Indeed much remains to be done, or in Steffens'
                    words to be done over, before any kind of valid synthesis can be achieved.
            It is neither courteous nor intelligent, of course, to overlook the solid accomplishments of the
                    immediate past. The literary historian thinks at once of Ralph L. Rusk's monumental volumes
                    entitled The Literature of the Middle Western Frontier, and every student of the
                    development of the 
                        Ohio
                     country is grateful to R. Carlyle Buley for his comprehensive 
                  
                     ∗ John T. Flanagan is professor of English at the
                            University of 
                        Illinois, Urbana, Illinois
                     .
                  
                     1
                            The Autobiography of Lincoln Steffens (
                                New York
                            , 1931), 117, 126.
               
                    
                    The Old Northwest. Both authors, unfortunately, saw fit to make 1840 their
                    terminal date. An older writer, William H. Venable, produced a fascinating personal chronicle of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     school in his Beginnings of Literary Culture in the Ohio
                        Valley
               , although modern readers find it uncritical and factually unreliable.
                    Dorothy A. Dondore's The Prairie and the Making of Middle America is
                    comprehensive and useful but its very inclusiveness blurs its focus. Harlan Hatcher and Walter
                    Havighurst have fused political, economic, and social history in several books, and Philip D.
                    Jordan's National Road illustrates admirably the impact of a great
                    western turnpike on time, place, and manners. Of the many volumes devoted to the lake regions and
                    river valleys of the Middle West none is more charming than James M. Phalen's Sinnissippi, the story of the Rock River of 
                        Wisconsin
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    .
            Biographies, of course, are numerous and varied. Without pausing to enumerate the studies of
                    soldiers, clergymen, and politicians, one might observe that biographical studies have been written
                    about such literary figures as Timothy Flint, James Hall, Henry Rowe Schoolcraft, Edward Eggleston,
                    Finley Peter Dunne, Eugene Field, James Whitcomb Riley, George Ade, Theodore Dreiser, and William
                    Allen White. Excellent bibliographies of such significant midwest authors as Ade and Riley have been
                    compiled. The documents of particular cultural centers like 
                        New Harmony
                     and 
                        Kaskaskia
                     have been made available. Special monographs on the theatrical history of 
                        Davenport
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     have been published, and critical studies of the work of such painters as George Caleb
                    Bingham and John Steuart Curry have been written. Above all, the cultural historian owes a
                    conspicuous debt to the historical societies of the various midwest states and to the hospitable
                    policy of the editors of the quarterlies sponsored by these societies. For these journals have not
                    held to a narrow conception of what history is but have published articles ranging in theme from
                    publishing, education, and domestic life to accounts of literary and debating societies and
                    chronicles of circuses and showboats.
            But one remembers the bold assertions of Hamlin Garland in 1894. In a neglected little volume
                    entitled Crumbling Idols he sought to establish his creed of veritism; he argued
                    sincerely and persuasively for local color and for genuine use of the materials which an author knew
                    best even though they  might include alleys and backyards. But
                    even more to the point, Garland observed that midwest writers and artists in general were ignoring
                    the possibilities of the life around them. Themes were crying out for treatment, he asserted, and he
                    enumerated a few: the Mississippi River, the life of the Great Lakes region,
                    the areas dominated by segments of foreign population, the epic of lumbering, the growth and impact
                    of the railroads, the rise of towns and cities in his native Middle West. It is true that in this
                    inventory Garland was thinking largely of creative activity, of poets and novelists who would employ
                    such materials in great literature, of sculptors and painters who would mold durable works of art.
                    But unfortunately neither artists nor scholars have taken the challenge seriously enough to provide
                    the necessary answers. Although more than half a century has passed since Crumbling
                        Idols appeared, many of Garland's themes remain untouched.
            Certainly the possibilities are enormous. The recent death of Sinclair Lewis reminds us that no one
                    has written a substantial biography of the first American man of letters to win the Nobel Prize for
                    literature. It is inconceivable that Lewis will not eventually inspire a flood of reminiscent and
                    biographical volumes, but the point is that so far they are all in the future. Almost equally
                    paradoxical is the neglect of Hamlin Garland. Admittedly not a major figure in literature, Garland
                    nevertheless occupies a secure place in the history of American realism and certainly his services
                    were important enough to justify a serious study of his work. There is no adequate biography of
                    Sherwood Anderson, despite the thousands of letters to and from Anderson that have found a haven in
                    the Newberry Library; and there is no full-length study of Vachel Lindsay to compensate for some of
                    the distortions inherent in the biography written by Edgar Lee Masters. Masters himself has had no
                    biographical attention at all. Other once prominent writers of the Middle West who have so far
                    eluded competent biographers are Joseph Kirkland, Booth Tarkington, Robert Herrick, Herbert Quick,
                    Floyd Dell, John G. Neihardt, and, Willa Cather.
            To go back a little further, some earlier midwest authors have dropped into such complete obscurity
                    that their personal existence seems almost mythical. Caleb Atwater, the 
                        Ohio
                     historian and educator, has never attracted a biographer, nor has William D. Gallagher,
                    the 
                        Cincinnati
                     journalist who edited  the Hesperian and in 1841 published the first anthology of midwest poetry. Such early literary
                    figures of the Ohio Valley as Julia Dumont, Otway Curry, John James Piatt,
                    Emerson Bennett, and Alice Cary have never been honored by substantial monographs. William Morton
                    Payne, once the distinguished editor of the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Dial, has so completely lost his identity that the recent Literary
                        History of the 
                            United States
                        
                confuses him with Will Payne, the 
                        Chicago
                     novelist; and Francis Fisher Browne, founder and proprietor of the Dial, is not even listed in the index of the bibliographical volume of that work. There is no
                    study of William T. Coggeshall, editor, novelist, and state librarian of 
                        Ohio
                    . Maurice Thompson, author of that little gem of early realism, Hoosier
                        Mosaics, as well as of the more famous Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
               , has been by-passed by biographers, as has the romantic historical novelist
                    Mary Hartwell Catherwood. Alice French, once widely known under the pseudonym of "Octave
                    Thanet," seems quite forgotten. There was no more fascinating personality in American
                    literary journalism than William Marion Reedy of 
                        St. Louis
                    , but no biography has been written about the famous editor of the Mirror.
               2 Moreover, even those biographies that have appeared have
                    seldom provided satisfactory treatments of all aspects of their subjects. There is room for a study
                    of Eggleston's literary evolution, for an analysis of William Allen White as a writer, for
                    a discussion of the peculiar prairie asceticism of Edgar W. Howe.3
            
            Sometimes a whole literary period has been neglected to such an extent that the cultural historian
                    faces an almost insuperable obstacle. The 
                        Cincinnati
                     of the 1830's provides one 
                  
                     2 There is, of course, a periodical literature of
                            substantial volume about some of these figures. About Reedy, for example see the following:
                            Edgar Lee Masters, "Literary Boss of the Middle West," American Mercury (
                                New York
                            , 1924), XXXIV (1935), 450-455; John T. Flanagan, "Reedy of the Mirror," 
                                    Missouri
                                 Historical Review (
                                Columbia
                            , 1906-), XLIII (1949), 128-144.
                  
                     3 These comments have been limited to book-length publications and to
                            published works. Doctoral dissertations on some of the authors mentioned remain unpublished
                            in various places: on Edgar Lee Masters (University of 
                                Illinois
                            ), on Mary Hartwell Catherwood (
                                Ohio
                             State University), on Joseph Kirkland (Indiana University), on Sherwood
                            Anderson (
                                Ohio
                             State University and University of 
                                Chicago
                            ), on Vachel Lindsay (University of 
                                Illinois
                            ), on Robert Herrick (University of 
                                Chicago
                            ), on Willa Cather (University of 
                                Iowa
                            ), and on Hamlin Garland (
                                Ohio
                             State University). One might add that two books on Anderson appeared in the
                            spring of 1951, neither of which is in any sense a complete biography. See Irving Howe, Sherwood Anderson (
                                New York
                            , 1951), and James Schevill, Sherwood Anderson, His Life and
                            Work (
                                Denver
                            , 1951).
               
                     example. Here prospered for some years the Semi-Colon Club,
                    which convened at the home of Daniel Drake or Samuel E. Foote and which was dominated intellectually
                    by Drake and James Hall. Among its members were Benjamin Drake, E. D. Mansfield, Caroline Hentz,
                    Calvin B. Stowe, and, in later years the most illustrious of the group, the unmarried daughter of
                    Lyman Beecher. Except for Mrs. Stowe these figures excite little attention today. A similar
                    illustration is provided by the 
                        St. Louis
                     of the pre-Civil War period, when Matthew Field and Joseph Field, Sol Smith, John S.
                    Robb, and Charles Keemle dominated literary journalism and produced the lively journal known as the
                        Reveille. Biographical data about Robb are obscure and confusing, and no
                    biography exists of either of the Field brothers : Matthew, who under the pseudonym of
                    "Phazma" wrote graceful light verse; and Joseph, who used such noms
                        de plumes as "Straws" and "Everpoint" and created in
                        The Drama in Pokervilie an unforgetable bit of western portraiture. In the 
                        St. Louis
                     of the post-Civil War period, the metropolis which was convinced by the census of 1880
                    that it never was to be the future great city of the world, fewer literary lights existed but
                    studies of Alexander DeMenil and Denton J. Snider would be profitable. And certainly the once widely
                    read historical novelist, Winston Churchill, author of The Crossing and The Crisis, needs examination.
            But turn from writers themselves to writing and publishing. If great literature seldom emanates from
                    a literary society or club, it is true that such organizations often have a lasting effect on
                    authorship and for that reason alone merit study. The Western Association of Writers, which convened
                    for a number of years in 
                        Indianapolis
                     or at Lake Winona near 
                        Warsaw
                    , Indiana, attracted such celebrities as James Whitcomb Riley, Maurice Thompson, and
                    Opie Read, yet its history is inaccessible and incomplete. Frederick Gookin has written the story of
                    the 
                        Chicago
                     Literary Club but has provided little interpretation of the significance of that
                    interesting and still active organization. The notorious Whitechapel Club of 
                        Chicago
                     claimed all the celebrated newspapermen of the day as its members and sponsored many
                    famous meetings, but its story has been only incompletely revealed in the autobiographies of the
                    journalists who once belonged to it. Such organizations as the Caxton Club, with its bibliophilie
                    traditions, and the Cliff Dwellers, promoted by Hamlin Garland and borrowing a name  from Henry Fuller's novel, have also played an important but
                    little discussed role in the cultural history of the Middle West.
            Publishing houses themselves have only recently become the subject of investigation, and certainly
                    Sidney Kramer's admirable history of the firm of Stone & Kimball is a step in the
                    right direction. But similar studies are needed of the beginnings of the McClurg firm, of
                    Donnelley's Lakeside Press, of the Bobbs-Merrill Company of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , of various 
                        Cincinnati
                     firms such as U. P. James and W. B. Smith & Company. The publishing history of
                    such cities as 
                  St. Louis, Milwaukee, Minneapolis, St. Paul
               , and 
                        Detroit
                    , especially along belletristic lines, is virtually a closed book.
            Moreover, the careers of the important literary magazines of the Middle West have been almost
                    consistently ignored. One thinks of Timothy Flint's Western Monthly
                    Review, of James Hall's Western Monthly Magazine, of the
                    Gallagher-Curry Hesperian, of Coggeshall's Genius of the
                        West. Francis Fisher Browne's Lakeside Monthly, published just
                    before and after the 
                        Chicago
                     Fire of 1871, deserves special consideration, as does his later Dial,
                    for years the most reliable and most admired book-review periodical produced in the 
                        United States
                    .4 No full-length study has ever been made of the 
                        Minneapolis
                    
                    Bellman, of the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Chap-Book, of Reedy's 
                        St. Louis
                    
                    Mirror, of Margaret Anderson's Little Review, of the
                    aptly titled "modern sardonic journal" edited by Ben Hecht, the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Literary Times. Equally neglected are John T. Frederick's Midland, published at 
                        Iowa City
                     and elsewhere, Lowry Wimberly's Prairie Schooner, published
                    at 
                        Lincoln
                    , and Harriet Monroe's Poetry, the oldest and best of
                    American magazines devoted to the publication and criticism of serious verse.5
                    This list could easily be augmented, but these examples will have to suffice.
            But there are other literary or sub-literary forms which need to be recorded and analyzed. George
                    Lyman Kittredge has revealed the significance of a single almanac for New 
                  
                     4 Fredric J. Mosher has made an intensive study of the Dial from 1880 to 1892 in an unpublished Ph.D. dissertation (University of 
                                Illinois
                            ).
                  
                     5 Some literary magazines have been discussed in magazine articles:
                            Lois T. Hartley, "The Midland," 
                        
                                    Iowa
                                 Journal of History and Politics (
                                Iowa City
                            , 1903-), XLVII (1949), 325-344; Luella M. Wright, "The Midland
                            Monthly," in ibid., XLV (1947), 3-61; John T. Flanagan,
                            "Early Literary Periodicals in 
                                Minnesota
                            ," 
                        
                                    Minnesota
                                 History (
                                St. Paul
                            , 1915-), XXVI (1945), 293-311. The best account of Poetry
                            remains Harriet Monroe's autobiography, A Poet's Life (
                                New York
                            , 1938).
               
                    
                    
                        England
                    , but no one has ever examined the almanacs of the Middle West in order to explain their
                    popularity and to discuss them as reflections of popular taste. Here the uniformity and
                    conventionality of the type should not blind the student to regional variations. Midwest almanacs,
                    unfortunately, are not easily studied as the fancier of the Davy Crockett comic almanacs or the
                    Commodore Rollingpin almanacs of John Henton Carter has ample occasion to know. But even if no
                    midwest library is as rich in this sort of material as the American Antiquarian Society at 
                        Worcester
                    , it should be possible with reasonable diligence to assemble enough examples.
            There is similar need to investigate the whole field of gazetteers, guidebooks, and
                    traveler's aids which poured from the press before the Civil War and which reveal the
                    prospective immigrants' anxiety about routes, clothes, expenses, equipment, food prices,
                    and land purchasing. Some of these volumes had an amazing longevity. John Kilbourn's 
                  
                            Ohio
                         Gazetteer went through nine editions in fifteen years, while the various books
                    of John Mason Peck about the 
                        Illinois
                     country had a wide circulation and still retain value as sources for the history of the
                    period. From a literary point of view, the most interesting of these guidebooks are those which
                    became on occasion both subjective and dramatic. Peck was not averse to interpolating his own views
                    on temperance and slavery,6 while Alphonso Wetmore appended several interesting
                    realistic sketches to the usual summary of statistical information in his Gazetteer of
                        the State of 
                            Missouri
                        
               , published in 1837. As the territories filled with settlers and achieved
                    statehood, there was less need for such tabloid information, but gazetteers continued to appear for
                    the trans-
                        Mississippi
                     states until well past the Civil War. They reveal intimate and curious glimpses of
                    immigrant life despite the fact that they were commonly written in the style and manner of the
                    promoter.
            One might indeed hazard the statement that the entire historiography of the Middle West has never
                    been examined for its own sake. Michael Kraus in his study of the writing of American history
                    completely ignores the early midwest historians although he pays ample attention to the Middle West
                    in history and devotes considerable space to such writers as Frederick Jackson Turner, Theodore
                    Roosevelt, and Reuben 
                  
                     6 See such volumes as A Gazetteer of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                Jacksonville
                            , 1834), and A New Guide for Emigrants to the West (
                                Boston
                            , 1836).
               
                     Gold Thwaites.7 The names of such pioneers
                    in the field as John W. Monette, James Hall, Caleb Atwater, John B. Dillon, Henry Howe, Thomas Ford,
                    John Reynolds, Increase Allen Lapham, and Edward Neill are becoming increasingly obscure, and
                    certainly few scholars have made any attempt to examine their historical work critically. Yet their
                    merits have not disappeared merely because in general their books have been supplanted.
                    Monette's History of the Discovery and Settlement of the Valley of the 
                            Mississippi
                        
                is still the best early study of the subject, and James Hall's
                    account of the first steamboats on the Ohio River and his description of the
                    prairies as they were in the days of the first whites are both valuable and interesting. Nor should
                    the casual reader of history neglect Henry Howe's anecdotes of 
                        Ohio
                     life or John Reynolds' vividly subjective impressions of early experiences in 
                        Illinois
                    .8 Many of the nineteenth century historians of the Middle West were
                    solid and substantial writers; they still deserve attention.
            When one turns to the field of lyceum lecturing and popular entertainment, the picture is not
                    materially different. What has been done here is scattered and relatively slight; published studies
                    have generally appeared as articles in historical quarterlies. The itineraries of distinguished
                    eastern lecturers have been traced by students eager to salvage every biographical detail about
                    Emerson, Alcott, Melville, Bayard Taylor, Holmes, and Greeley. But the total view is still hazy and
                    incomplete. The cultural historian needs to know the impact of the lyceum system upon the smaller
                    communities, the number and kind of lectures given, their popular reception, the fees paid, the
                    newspaper reports, the general influence upon the local scene. Before such information can be
                    distilled and clearly presented, newspaper files in many a small town will have to be ransacked.
            Theatrical history is somewhat richer and has yielded good results to several students, but even here
                    much remains to be done.9 For in these days of motion pictures, radio, and 
                  
                     7 The names of Hall, Flint, Monette, Atwater, and Ford, not to mention
                            many others, do not even appear in the index of Kraus's book, A
                                History of American History (
                                New York
                            , 1937).
                  
                     8 Josephine Louise Harper has written a study of John Reynolds
                            (unpublished Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                                Illinois
                            ); Huntley Dupre has published in Edward Duffield Neill (St
                            Paul, 1949), a short study of the pioneer 
                                Minnesota
                             historian.
                  
                     9 A number of substantial doctoral dissertations on the theatrical
                            history of the Middle West have been written at the University of 
                                Chicago
                            .
               
                     television it is easy to forget that the visiting theatrical
                    star and the traveling troupe of thespians were an integral part of midwest life throughout much of
                    the nineteenth century. River towns especially benefited from such visits and were far more likely
                    to see Edwin Forrest, Edwin Booth, William Macready, and Joseph Jefferson in person than their
                    twentieth century counterparts are likely to see John Gielgud or Maurice Evans. The programs were
                    rich and substantial with the plays of Shakespeare often providing the staple offerings but with
                    light comedies, pantomimes, and farces frequently filling out an evening's entertainment.
                    Such towns as 
                  Peoria, Quincy, Lafayette, Bloomington, Vincennes
               ,
                    Keokuk, 
                        Evansville
                    , and 
                        Springfield
                     would probably never see a Theater Guild production today; but their nineteenth century
                    theatrical history is a profitable and fascinating subject to explore.
            Moreover, students attracted by such a research field have tended to emphasize the history of the
                    stage rather than the history of the drama. It is true that dramatic composition has never
                    flourished in the Middle West like other literary forms, largely because of the lack of the
                    necessary mediums of production, but from Augustus Thomas's In Mizzoura
                    and The Copperhead to George Ade's The County Chairman
                    and Zona Gale's Miss Lulu Bett regional drama has been written. Among
                    other interesting midwest dramatists one might list Booth Tarkington, Zoe Akins, E. P. Conkle, and
                    Susan Glas-pell. Their work needs evaluation.
            From the theater it is an easy transition to the showboat and its impact upon the life of the small
                    community. Edna Ferber made good imaginative use of the subject and the 
                        Broadway
                     stage seized upon the theatrical possibilities of her novel, but little has been
                    printed about the historical showboats, the plays they produced, the physical difficulties of
                    production, the actors presented, and the audiences catered to and pleased.10
                    Indeed for a really vivid picture of certain aspects of showboat spectacles and life one must turn
                    to fiction, to the 
                  See several recent articles by Harold E. Briggs and Ernestine Briggs, "The Early
                            Theater on the Northern Plains," 
                        Mississippi
                                Valley Historical Review (
                        Cedar
                                    Rapids, Iowa
                     ,
                            1914-), XXXVII (1950-1951), 231-264; "The Early Theatre in 
                                Chicago
                            ," Journal of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Society (
                                Springfield
                            , 1908-), XXXIX (1946), 165-178; "The Early Theatre in the Upper
                                Mississippi Valley," Mid-America (
                                Chicago
                            , 1918-), XXXII (1950), 89-103.
                  
                     10 Joseph S. Schick presents a good deal of information in a recent
                            article, "Early Showboat and Circus in the Upper Valley," Mid-America, XXXII, 211-225.
               
                     king-and-duke scenes in Mark Twain's Huckleberry Finn and to the less well known but more fully detailed chapters in Charles D.
                    Stewart's Partners of 
                            Providence
                        . Equally profitable would be a study of the history of the circus in the
                    Middle West, not a cultural manifestation of high importance perhaps but an essential part of the
                    American scene. Shabby showmen accompanying moth-eaten animals in cages and grandiosely advertised
                    traveling menageries appeared relatively early in the Ohio Valley and further
                    west; the considerable curiosity they excited among the youth of both urban and rural areas is
                    vividly apparent in the ninth chapter of William Dean Howells's A
                        Boy's Town. Clearly the barker's spiel and the billboard poster have been
                    familiar longer than most of us realize today.
            Finally, one must echo the remark of Stanley Pargellis that the cultural and social history of the
                    midwest city, even the cultural and social history of 
                        Chicago
                    , remains to be written.11 Books do exist, of course, books about 
                        St. Louis
                     and 
                        Cleveland
                     and Milwaukee, old-fashioned books generally with the emphasis upon economic and
                    political development and with ample attention paid to distinguished citizens—often with
                    formal portraits and comfortably eulogistic biographies. But most of these volumes are booster books
                    or are examples of luxury publishing which reveal little critical analysis and small understanding
                    of the problems involved. Sociological studies of the bigger midwest cities lag far behind (although
                    of course 
                        Muncie
                     can boast of its 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                    ), and adequate cultural studies simply do not exist. Despite the many other subjects for
                    investigation enumerated above, one is tempted to agree with the words of Pargellis: "Good
                    books about cities are the great unwritten things in the Midwest."12
            
            But since this article makes no pretense to being exhaustive it is useless to illustrate further. The
                    Middle West is not only a large land mass with tremendous potentiality in industry, food production,
                    civic improvement, and artistic creation; it is also a region with a rich, varied, and significant
                    cultural history. Before any kind of adequate synthesis can be made, before the cultural historian
                    can reach any final judgment, a multitude of paths must be explored.
            
               
                  11 Stanley Pargellis, "A Great City in Need of a
                        Biographer," 
                            Chicago
                        
                        Sun Book Week, May 4,1947, p. 15.
               
                        12
                        Ibid.
                    
            
         
         
         
            The Literature of Slavery: A Re-Evaluation
            
               Chase C. Mooney∗
            In 1933, Ralph B. Flanders in his Plantation Slavery in 
                            Georgia
                        
                pointed out that no satisfactory study of slavery in its several phases
                    existed for a single southern state. It is interesting to note that in that same year Ruth
                    Scarborough published a work on the Opposition to Slavery in 
                            Georgia
                         Prior to 1860 which is a valuable supplement to Flanders' work; and
                    further, in 1933, Charles S. Sydnor published his Slavery in 
                            Mississippi
                        
                which comes nearer to meeting the need which Flanders noted than does any
                    other one book. But even here there was left much room for further study, and in some other areas
                    the gap to be filled is even larger.
            The study of the institution of slavery—a difficult task at its best—was
                    complicated by the tons of material that were manufactured around the sectional controversy and the
                    political aspects of the institution. This "cold war of sectional apologetics"
                    brought many pieces of propaganda that would have done credit to the Hitlerian idea of racial
                    supremacy and which give a mild tone to the language which the Russians and the Western powers hurl
                    at one another. The truth of the situation was so obscured that only recently have we come to
                    uncover it, and even to get some good works on the cold war itself. There are a few works, however,
                    in this period before the end of the Civil War that have some value for us. James Stirling, James S.
                    Buckingham, Claude Mackay, Frederick L. Olmsted, Nehemiah Adams, Frances A. Kemble, and a few of the
                    other travelers or temporary sojourners contain observations or analyses that are penetrating from
                    the social standpoint, though one must ever be wary of the inaccuracies of reporting then as today.
                    Two of the travel accounts—Charles G. Parsons' Inside View of
                        Slavery and Philo Tower's Slavery Unmasked afford an excellent
                    opportunity for a study in plagiarism of the former by the latter, while Mrs. Mary H.
                    Eastman's Aunt Phillis' Cabin, as an answer to the well-known
                        Uncle Tom's Cabin, seems to have been neglected almost entirely 
                  
                     ∗ Chase C. Mooney is an associate professor of history at
                            Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana. This paper, in a slightly different form, was read before the
                            Southern Historical Association at 
                        Williamsburg, Virginia
                     , in November, 1949.
               
                     by analysts of the sectional literary strife. On the other
                    hand, Henry Chase and Charles W. Sanborn's The North and the South: A
                        Statistical View of the Condition of the Free and Slave States seems much less well known
                    than that of Hinton R. Helper, The Impending Crisis of the South: How to Meet It,
                    who published in the following year. Perhaps the best work of this period came in connection with
                    the studies on the law of slavery: Thomas R. R. Cobb, John C. Hurd, George M. Stroud; and the
                    valuable compilation by J. D. B. De Bow: Industrial Resources. One other
                    discriminating study, Daniel R. Hundley's Social Relations in Our Southern
                        States (1860) presents the most accurate picture of the population structure of the South
                    that was published prior to the 1930's. There should also be mentioned here the
                    observations of John William DeForest before the war and during the reconstruction period in 
                        South Carolina
                    . These analysts saw more than the slaveowners, slaves, and poor white divisions in the
                    South. While the above are the best, the worst was John E. Cairnes, who in his first edition of The Slave Power found five million "mean whites" but lost one
                    million of them for his second printing.
            The works of the decades of the 1860's and the 1870's reveal the hangover of the
                    great drunk of the preceding quarter century: Henry Wilson, Edward A. Pollard, and the others. But
                    in the 1880's three works appear that are less colored by sectional animosities. These were
                    William Still's Underground Railroad Records, George W.
                    Williams' History of the Negro Race in America from 1619 to 1880 (a
                    rather remarkable work for the period—Williams was a Negro) and in 1889 Jeffrey R.
                    Brackett's The Negro in 
                            Maryland
                        : A Study of the Institution of Slavery. Brackett devotes ninety pages to the
                    free Negro, and although there is no analysis of the relation of slavery to agriculture, nothing on
                    town slavery and many other phases of the institution, this is a good political and social study
                    which may be called the beginning of the scientific history as applied to slavery (even though
                    preceded by twenty-three years by George H. Moore's Notes on the History of
                        Slavery in 
                            Massachusetts
                        
               ). In the 1890's the influence of Herbert B. Adams and the Hopkins
                    group came into prominence with studies on several of the northern original slave states, three
                    works by John S. Bassett on 
                        North Carolina
                    , further work on the underground railroad, a beginning on the study of the slave  trade, and a study on the southern Quakers and slavery.
            Most of the above were confined to the political and social aspects of slavery, and it remained for
                    Philip A. Bruce's Economic History of 
                            Virginia
                        
                (1895) to turn the attention of historians to other phases of study. This
                    work, followed in 1913 by Charles A. Beard's An Economic Interpretation of the
                        Constitution of the 
                            United States
                        
               , had the effect of greatly broadening slavery studies, though some of a
                    considerably later date revert to politics as their main theme. Respectable production increased as
                    the scientific historians—led by James C. Ballagh, John M. Vincent, William Dodd, Ulrich
                    B. Phillips, and Bassett—became more numerous and stress was placed on the publication of
                    documents. Phillips' Plantation and Frontier Documents had a decided
                    effect here, and the three decades of activity were temporarily capstoned by his American Negro Slavery in 1918. The dozen and a half contributions of the 1910 decade were
                    followed by a dozen in the 1920's and by two dozen in the 1930's. In the middle
                    1930's an even broader basis of study was provided through the influence of Frank L.
                    Owsley. This newest approach involves much more digging and laborious research, but gives a more
                    nearly accurate picture of the antebellum period.
            With this very brief account of the trend of the study of the institution, one should turn to see in
                    what fields slavery has been adequately examined and what remains to be done. The relation of the
                    institution to the political fabric of the country has been the subject of more diatribes, polemics,
                    and respectable historical works than any other single phase. Within this orbit, the most widely
                    studied segment (the word studied is used with studied reserve) has been the abolition crusade and
                    the "slave conspiracy." The works of Albert B. Hart, Hilary A. Herbert, Jesse
                    Macy, Gilbert H. Barnes, Dwight L. Dumond, Asa E. Martin, Arthur Y. Lloyd, Alice D. Adams, Justin H.
                    Smith, Eugene C. Barker, Chauncey S. Boucher, Ruth Ketring-Nuermberger, and William S. Jenkins are
                    the main ones; the lesser ones are too numerous to mention. The reorientation of the line of study
                    after the publication of Barnes' The Antislavery Impulse, 1830-1844 does
                    not seem to have been as complete as it should have been; at any rate, the newer approach is still
                    foreign to many textbook writers. But even in the political field there has been inadequate study of
                    the colonization movements in the southern  states, and the
                    thesis that the South shifted to a whole-hearted defense of slavery after 1831 needs further
                    investigation within almost every state. It was unfortunate that most of the literary talent of the
                    South was expended in supporting slavery, but to say that there was suppression of freedom of
                    thought and speech seems unjustified. The climate of opinion may not have been too favorable for
                    these freedoms, but to go much beyond this is dangerous. Too many of the earlier writers, on the
                    abolition crusade particularly, have injected their own moral judgments—generally
                    twentieth century judgments—into their supposedly scientific analyses. This is outside
                    the province of the historian.
            The foreign slave trade has been discussed briefly by several authors and at length by some others in
                    the light of the great inhumanity of it all, but the works of Henry C. Carey, John R. Spears, and W.
                    E. B. DuBois must be listed as contributions. The most comprehensive work here is the set of
                    documents edited by Elizabeth Donnan, Documents Illustrative of the History of the
                        Slave Trade to America (4 volumes), whose introductions to the various parts of her study
                    reveal a better understanding and keener analysis than do the monographs devoted exclusively to a
                    discussion of the trade. The domestic slave trade is still without an accurate unbiased student.
                    Frederic Bancroft's figures are directly traceable to Cairnes, and Cairnes' are
                    only a little more than a decade from the report of the American Anti-Slavery Society. The
                    pseudologic and mental gymnastics that these authors engage in to prove their preconceived ideas
                    leave one with misinformation that is worse than no information at all. It should be added, however,
                    that as long as Bancroft confines himself to the mechanics of the trade, he is sufficiently at home
                    to make a contribution. It is unfortunate that there has been such a constant repetition of the
                    propaganda figures of the mid-nineteenth century.
            The existence of the underground railroad doubtless influenced some owners of the border states to
                    sell to the Lower South, though this connection has too often been overlooked by students of the
                    interstate slave trade. This multi-tracked line has received considerable attention in the
                    biographies of several individuals, in reminiscences, and in the works of Still, Wilbur H. Seibert,
                    and William M. Cockrum. In recent years it has had virtually no reworking; its history does not have
                         too great a bearing on an understanding of the history of
                    slavery.
            Williams in his History of the Negro in 1882 viewed the underground railroad as the
                    escape valve of slavery, without which he said there could well have been a repetition of the San
                    Dominican trouble. Revolts, or threatened revolts, were naturally of great concern to the
                    slaveowners and to the other members of the southern society. Here, however, a sound study is
                    lacking. William S. Drewry has treated the 
                        Virginia
                     revolts; Joseph C. Carroll dealt principally with the Gabriel, 
                        Denmark
                     Vesey, and Nat Turner disturbances, with more than the permissible number of errors;
                    and Herbert Aptheker is so subjective and lacking in discrimination that the book—in any
                    of its forms—scarcely deserves to be classed as history. At any rate, the room for the
                    study is still there.
            Legal prohibitions on assemblage were one of the safeguards against potential revolt and these
                    restrictions tended to curtail religious instruction. Among those who have prepared articles or
                    monographs on some aspect of the slave and religion—or some church and its position on
                    slavery—are Stephen B. Weeks, David Rice, John S. Bassett, Walter Posey, Mary Putnam,
                    Charles Swaney, and Marcus W. Jernegan. The palm must go to Mary Putnam for her work on the Baptists
                    (prepared under William Dodd) and to Charles Swaney for his study on Episcopal Methodism with
                    sidelights on church politics. For the actual workings of the churches among the slaves, especially
                    on the plantations, the only valuable work is that by W. P. Harrison (ed.), The Gospel
                        Among the Slaves, a Short Account of Missionary Activities Among the African Slaves of the
                        Southern States (
                        Nashville
                    , 1893), which deals with the activities of the Methodists. Apparently, they are the
                    only denomination for which there are any extensive records available. The article, or piece-meal,
                    approach is probably the only possibility of securing a reasonably accurate picture for this part of
                    the mosaic, though it is probable that prohibitions on religious instruction were more honored in
                    the breach than in the observance.
            The status of the slave—according to the letter of the law—was fairly well
                    defined even before the Civil War by such works as Cobb, Hurd, and Stroud. The actual interpretation
                    of these statutes has been put into readily accessible form by Helen T. Catterall's Judicial Cases Concerning American Slavery and the Negro, while Howell M. Henry,
                        The Police Control of the Slave in 
                            South Carolina
                        
               , and B. R. Holt, The Supreme 
                        Court of 
                            North Carolina
                         and Slavery, have made specialized studies on the police control of slaves in 
                        South Carolina
                     and on the attitude of the 
                        North Carolina
                     Supreme Court toward the institution. There are still too many writers on slavery who
                    view the statutory position as the actual position of the slave—and would probably be
                    sufficiently naive to say there actually was prohibition from 1919 to 1933; on the other hand, there
                    are others who will not quite go along with Phillips on the idea that the government of slaves was
                    one part by law and ninety-nine parts by men. The legal position can best be studied in relation to
                    slavery in a particular state, for the code was an evolutionary one, determined in large measure by
                    local conditions. One must exclude from the evolutionary process the original 
                        South Carolina
                     code, and, of course, the Code Noir of the early 1700's in 
                        Louisiana
                    . Where the institution has been studied, the legal position has generally been treated
                    with competence.
            The building materials for the over-all study of slavery must be the monographic treatments of the
                    institution within the several states, and it is somewhat discouraging at this date to find several
                    of the more important foundation stones missing. The tobacco kingdom was the first area to receive
                    the attention of the scientific historians, and, in general, is the only area that is yet at all
                    adequately treated.
            Brackett broke the ground with his 1889 study of slavery in 
                        Maryland
                    , a considerable portion of which it will be remembered was devoted to the study of the
                    free Negro. The study has a number of shortcomings in that it omits several phases of the
                    institution, but some of the gap has been filled by works or articles on the free Negro, labor
                    controls, and related topics.
            Ballagh's work on 
                        Virginia
                     is still standard for the state, but it is slightly inferior to the 
                        Maryland
                     study. In the Old Dominion state, however, there have been more important supplements
                    than there have been in 
                        Maryland
                    : Bruce's Economic History (1895), Thomas J.
                    Wertenbaker's Planters (1922), Avery O. Craven's Soil Exhaustion (applicable of course to both of these states), and significant portions
                    of the biographies of several individuals, as well as a number of specialized articles. The most
                    thoroughly covered portion of slavery in 
                        Virginia
                     is the famous debate of the assembly and the slavery agitation of the early nineteenth
                    century.
            
               
                        North Carolina
                     has better coverage than any of the other southern slave states. Bassett's
                    works on the colony, the state,  and the antislavery leaders
                    have been supplemented by Rosser H. Taylor, Slaveholding in 
                            North Carolina
                        : An Economic View, Henry M. Wagstaff, Minutes of the N. C.
                        Manumission Society, 1816-1834 (volumes XVIII and XXII in the James Sprunt Historical Publications), Holt, The Supreme Court of 
                            North Carolina
                         and Slavery, and numerous good articles in the 
                  
                            North Carolina
                         Historical Review. Nor should one overlook Weeks's book on the Southern Quakers and Slavery published the same year (1896) as Bassett's
                    work on slavery and servitude in the colony.
            The three major works on 
                        Kentucky
                     do not paint as clear a picture as do those of 
                        North Carolina
                    . Ivan E. McDougle's study, Slavery in 
                            Kentucky
                        , 1792-1865 (1918), is rather general in nature—development, legal,
                    and social—with not too much information that gets to the heart of the institution. In
                    that same year Asa Martin published his work on The Anti-Slavery Movement in 
                            Kentucky
                         Prior to 1850; a good study which he has not carried on to 1860 as originally
                    intended either because he was distracted to other activities or because he has found there was not
                    room for another monograph in the last pre-Civil War decade. J. Winston Coleman's Slavery Times in 
                            Kentucky
                        
                (1940) is a colorful and appealing study which seems to catch much of the
                    spirit of the period, but does not give us enough of the flesh and bones of the institution. A
                    number of professional articles helps to fill some of the gaps in the 
                        Kentucky
                     quarter. A study has just been published on the hemp industry which may also supplement
                    the earlier works.1
            
            Harrison A. Trexler's Slavery in 
                            Missouri
                        , 1804-1865 (1914), preceded by an article on slavery in the territory, is as
                    good coverage by a single book as will be found, with the exception of Sydnor's. Trexler
                    seems to have been the first individual to use numerous types of local records in his analyses, and
                    also the first to employ the manuscript census records in any way. The value of his work would have
                    been greatly increased by an exploitation of the census records.
            
               
                        Tennessee
                     must be content at the present time to get her story of slavery from the compilation of
                    materials—a first conning over, one might call it—by C. P. Patterson, The Negro in 
                            Tennessee
                        , 1790-1865 (1922), from the study of Charles E. Hedrick on Social
                        and Economic Aspects of Slavery in the Transmontane Prior to 1850 (1927), from several
                    articles, and from Blanche H. Clark's 
                  
                            Tennessee
                         Yeomen, 1840-1860
                    
                  
                     1 James F. Hopkins, History of the Hemp Industry in 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                      (
                        Lexington, Kentucky
                     , 1951).
               
                     (1942). The last mentioned is a very valuable piece of work,
                    but its special emphasis is on the nonslaveholder. Two works, now in progress, on slavery and the
                    free Negro should go far to round out the picture in that state.
            The work is well along in the Upper South and the border region, but such a good report unfortunately
                    can not be given for the Lower South. In 
                        South Carolina
                    , there has been a study in Americanization of the Negro in the colonial period,2 a forty-two page summary of slavery from 1670 to 1770,3
                    and a study of the police control of slaves.4 Also, there have been some
                    articles—though not many—and some documents, but the institution in that
                    important state is still without a historian.
            Up until 1930 slavery in 
                        Georgia
                     seems to have been practically "unknown" to the historians. An
                    article or two had appeared before that time, some more in that year, and in 1933 Flanders and
                    Scarborough published their studies. Both are good works, though Flanders is confined to plantation
                    slavery and thus omits a very large part of the slaveholding population from its scope.
            Floridians must glean a meager diet from an article by Wilbur H. Siebert, two by Dorothy Dodd, and
                    the Phillips-Glunt records of the Noble Jones's plantation. The introduction and the notes
                    of the last-mentioned work do prevent the void from being as great as it might first appear.
            
               
                        Alabama
                     was without a work of any consequence until the publication, in 1939, of Charles
                    Davis's The Cotton Kingdom in 
                            Alabama
                        . The emphasis here is on plantation slavery, though the other types come in
                    for corollary attention. Davis made extensive use of tax lists, assessors' lists, and other
                    local records, as well as newspapers, planters' records, and the manuscript census
                    schedules. Several of the gaps left by the Davis book have been filled by James B. Sellars, Slavery in 
                            Alabama
                        
                (1950). This work follows closely the line laid out by Owsley (see below), and
                    taken together with Davis's work, the Owsleys' article, and Weymouth T.
                    Jordan's study it limns a very good picture of the peculiar institution in the
                    Yellow-hammer state.
            
               
                  2 Frank J. Klingberg, An Appraisal of the Negro in Colonial 
                                South Carolina
                            
                   (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1941).
               
                  3 Edward McCrady, "Slavery in the Province of 
                            South Carolina
                         from 1670 to 1770," in American Historical Association, Annual Report… for the Year 1895 (
                            Washington
                        , 1895), 631-673.
               
                  4 Howell M. Henry, The Police Control of the Slave in 
                                South Carolina
                            
                   (Emory, 
                            Virginia
                        , 1914).
            
            
            Sydnor's study on 
                        Mississippi
                     is the most comprehensive single book on a particular state, and it has been admirably
                    broadened by Herbert Weaver's monograph on 
                  
                            Mississippi
                         Farmers, 1850-1860. Sydnor's economics have been questioned by Thomas
                    P. Govan,5 and some of Weaver's analyses throw new or different light
                    on portions of Sydnor's work. Be that as it may, these two studies go far toward bringing a
                    full understanding of the institution in its basic aspects. One should not leave 
                        Mississippi
                     without mention of Sydnor's article on the life span of slaves which is most
                    revealing, namely that the Negro had a longer life in comparison with the white during slavery times
                    than he did in later years.
            
               
                        Louisiana
                     was favored with a good study on the sugar plantations by V. Alton Moody in 1924, and a
                    more comprehensive analysis touching on the late antebellum period by Roger W. Shugg in 1939. The
                    newest and broadest approach is represented by Harry Coles's "Some Notes on
                    Slaveownership and Landownership in 
                        Louisiana
                    , 1850-1860"6 which are the first fruits of a more
                    elaborate study.
            Studies for 
                        Texas
                     and 
                        Arkansas
                     are lacking. The institution has been examined as it related to the colonization of 
                        Texas
                    , to the 
                        Texas
                     revolution, and to the War with Mexico, but the investigation has been confined to
                    these political angles. If historical production were to be taken as a criterion of existence, there
                    was no slavery to speak of in 
                        Arkansas
                    .
            Excellent studies of slavery exist for 
                        Pennsylvania
                     (Edward R. Turner, 1911), and for 
                        Illinois
                     (N. Dwight Harris, 1904), while satisfactory ones are available for the colonial period
                    in 
                        New York
                     (E. V. Morgan, 1891) and Samuel McKee, 1935), for 
                        Massachusetts
                     (George H. Moore, 1866), 
                        Connecticut
                     (Bernard C. Steiner, 1893), and 
                        New Jersey
                     (Henry S. Cooley, 1896), with a less satisfactory study by Mary Tremain (1892) on the 
                        District of Columbia
                    . Lorenzo Johnston Greene's The Negro in Colonial 
                            New England
                        
                (1942) makes admirable use of previous works and adds materially to the
                    understanding of slavery in the northeastern part of the country.
            Before proceeding to a brief description of what yet needs to be done, mention should be made of
                    Phillips' American 
                     
                        5 Thomas P. Govan, "Was Plantation Slavery
                                Profitable?," Journal of Southern History
                                        (
                           Baton Rouge, Louisiana
                        , 1935-), VIII (1942),
                                513-535.
                     
                        6
                                Journal of Southern History, IX (1943), 381-394.
                  
                         Negro Slavery and his Life and Labor
                    as well as Lewis C. Gray's monumental work on southern agriculture prior to 1860. The
                    achievement of Phillips in 1918 is indeed impressive and his Slavery will not be
                    replaced for many years—if at all. But there is need of continuing the supplementing of
                    this work and of broadening the basis of study. His Life and Labor is more mature
                    than the Slavery; it is broader and more interpretative. Gray disagrees with
                    Phillips on a number of points, but he has assembled and interpreted such an incredible amount of
                    material that his work is far more than the title might suggest.
            Still not all the cotton has been chopped nor all the tobacco suckered, and for the last decade and a
                    half Owsley and his students have been offering "new" or "slightly
                    used" tools for carrying on the work. These implements are a spade, fork, and abacus (or
                    maybe a calculator), and a dogged determination to plow the dirt of the various depositories of
                    local records and to clear a portion of the almost-virgin forests of the federal manuscript
                    censuses. There are sinks and quagmires in these records as in most others, and these
                    "short and simple annals of the poor" are almost incredibly long and complicated,
                    but through them—along with the long-used records—one can come nearer to the
                    true picture of the antebellum South than in any other way. The emphasis is shifted, under this
                    newer program, to a more statistical analysis and to the yeoman group, which was and is the most
                    numerous element of the population. The first fruits of this newer method—articles by the
                    Owsleys, and his Plain Folk, along with the "Notes" by Coles,
                    and the works by Weaver and Clark—attest to the soundness and desirability of continuing
                    on those lines. One must also continue the documentary and semi-documentary studies such as those by
                    E. Merton Coulter, Wendell H. Stephenson, J. Carlyle Sitterson, Edwin A. Davis, and J. H. Easterby
                    (to mention only a few) and, among other things, pursue the study of hired labor (begun by
                    Sitterson), the agricultural reform movement (with articles such as James C. Bonner's), and
                    analyze slavery as an industrial system (in the line of Jernegan).
            It may not be possible, or desirable, to write the one satisfactory book for each
                    state—as Flanders put it—but if the voids indicated are filled by studies
                    carried out along the lines of the most recent ones, the road to an understanding of the true
                    conditions of the antebellum South will be paved with more than good intentions.
         
         
         
            Three Songs from 
                        New Harmony
                    
            
            Paul G. Brewster∗
            Two hymns and a song were collected by the writer in 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, in the summer of 1935. Both the texts and the tunes of all three were
                    contributed by Mrs. Nora Fretageot, librarian of the Workingmen's Institute Library at that
                    time.
            The hymns were composed and sung by members of the Rappite sect, known also at a later date as
                    Harmonists or Harmonites. The earlier and more common appellation derives from the name of the
                    leader, George Rapp, who founded the sect in 
                        Germany
                     near the end of the eighteenth century. Because of persecutions there, the sect came to
                    America, settling first in 
                  Butler County, Pennsylvania
               , in 1803-1804. In the following year the
                    Rappites founded here the community of Harmony. Five years later the community consisted of one
                    hundred forty families or between seven and eight hundred persons. Here they continued to live until
                    1814, when they sold their holdings and bought land in what was at that time Indiana Territory. At
                    their new home they enlarged their operations in every department of business, cultivated more land,
                    raised more stock, erected larger mills and more extensive factories for the manufacture of woolen
                    and cotton goods, and extended their vineyards and the production of wine. Soon they became the
                    business center for that area. In 1825 they sold their extensive holdings to Robert Owen and removed
                    to 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Even after the death of Rapp in 1847 the Society continued to flourish, but there was
                    a steady decline in membership. In the spring of 1903 all lands belonging to the sect were sold to
                    the Liberty Land Company and the proceeds were divided among the surviving members. On December 5,
                    1905, the Society was dissolved.1
            
            The Rappite hymns were for many years in manuscript, as the sect had no printing facilities until
                    1824. Whether they 
                  
                     ∗ Paul G. Brewster is an associate professor of English at 
                                Henderson
                             State Teachers College, 
                        Arkadelphia, Arkansas
                     .
                  
                     1 Aaron Williams, The Harmony Society, at Economy,
                                Penn'a (
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1866), 25-28, 35-40, 64, 60-63; John S. Duss, The Harmonists: A
                                Personal History (
                        Harrisburg,
                                    Pennsylvania
                     , 1943), 355-361, 387; John C.
                            Andressohn, "The Arrival of the Rappites at 
                                New Harmony
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), XLII (1946), 395-409; El-frieda Lang, "The Inhabitants of 
                                New Harmony
                             According to the Federal Census of 1850," ibid.,
                            360-362.
               
                     were composed before the Rappites left 
                        Germany
                     or after their arrival in the New World is not known.
            "Children of Friendship and Love" was translated into English in the early part of
                    the twentieth century by a nephew of Jacob Henrici, who was one of the trustees of the Society and
                    also its organist and singing teacher.2
            
            "Beauteous is the Great Wide World" was translated for the writer in 1935 by the
                    last surviving member of the Society, John S. Duss, of Ambridge, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Duss had been taken into the Society as a baby when his mother was admitted to
                    membership in the early 1860's.3
            
            The ode "Land of the West" was written by Stedman Whitwell4 on
                    board the packet "
                        New York
                    " bringing the Owen party to America; the music was composed by
                    Señor Garcia, a musician friend of his aboard. In March, 1826, it was sung at one of the
                    social meetings in 
                        New Harmony
                     by two pupils of Madame Fretageot.5 "Ebor Nova"
                    does not appear in the text here reproduced.
            
               
                  2 Duss, The Harmonists, 94-102, 368. At the time of
                        Rapp's death Romelius L. Baker and Jacob Henrici were appointed trustees to transact
                        the Society's external and financial affairs. When Baker died on January 13, 1868,
                        Henrici became the senior trustee.
               
                  3
                        Ibid., 119-121.
               
                  4 Whitwell, an architect of 
                            London
                        , is perhaps better known as the inventor of a system of nomenclature by which the
                        name of a place would indicate by its spelling its latitude and longitude, each letter or
                        diphthong representing a number. According to this ingenious system, 
                            New Harmony
                         (38.11 N., 87.55 W.) became Ipba Veinul; 
                            London
                         was Lafa-Tovutu. It is hardly necessary to add that it did not
                        meet with wide acceptance. See 
                            New Harmony
                        
                        Gazette, April 12, 1826.
               
                  5 Robert Dale Owen, Threading My Way: Twenty-Seven Years of
                            Autobiography (
                            London
                        , 1874), 260-263; 
                            New Harmony
                        , Indiana, Gazette, March 15, 1826; "The Diaries of
                        Donald Macdonald, 1824-1826," in Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1895-), XIV (1942), 307; Enciclopedia Universal Ilustrada,
                            Europeo-Americana (70 vols., Barcelona, n.d.), XXV, 764, 765, 808-809, 829. The song
                        was printed in the last number of the weekly newspaper, Gazette, which the
                        passengers called Sextant, published on board ship and was afterwards
                        published in 
                            New York
                         under the title "Ebor Nova." The composer was Manuel del Popolo
                        Vicente Garcia, who was taking an operatic troupe to 
                            New York
                         following a successful season in 
                            London
                        . After some time in 
                            New York
                        , the troupe continued on to Mexico, where it had an unlucky encounter with bandits.
                        Soon after, the elder Garcia sailed for 
                            Paris
                        , where he died in 1832. Also in the Garcia party were Maria, who at seventeen had
                        made a very successful debut in 
                            London
                         the previous spring; Pauline, only four at this time but later to become a noted
                        singer; and Manuel, basso, writer, and teacher of voice, who was later to have Jenny Lind as one
                        of his pupils.
            
            
            
               Children of Friendship and Love
            
            
                    Children of friendship and love, lift your voices, Sing the sweet bond that uplifts and rejoices.
                        Joyfully sounding divine friendship's praises, Join the great hymn the angelic host
                        raises; In grateful homage to heavenly love Swing your glad hearts to the ether above.
                    Lo ! from the throne there the bright fountain gushes; Through the wide heavens the crystal flood
                        rushes— Pure holy friendship, from sun to sun streaming, Filling all space with its
                        blessed mild beaming! Love rules the universe; through it alone Can real blessedness ever be
                        known!
                    In bonds of friendship the spheres are united; Seraphs and angels in friendship are plighted.
                        Patient and loving, it meets ev'ry trial; Freely forgives, with divine self-denial.
                        Were its pure ray into hell to descend, Hell at that moment would come to an end.
                    Friendship is shield against arrows of malice, Holds to the suff'rer the life-giving
                        chalice, Gives to the starving friend food to restore him, Warns and protects him when danger
                        hangs o'er him, Brings to the dying couch heavenly rest, Folds the poor erring one
                        close to the breast.
                    
                    Angel of friendship, abide with us ever; Comfort and guide us; abandon us never. Fill
                        ev'ry spirit with good will to others; Grant us in friendship and love to be brothers.
                        Hate and suspicion, depart from our ways! Angel of friendship, we bring thee our praise!
                
            (Lines three and four of each stanza are sung to the same notes as lines one and two, and the last
                    line of each stanza is repeated.)
            
               Beauteous is the Great Wide World
            
            
                    Still what is all of life's alloy? Scan it with probation— You will find all
                        earthly joy But of short duration.
                    Though one be in treasures rich, Gold makes no one wiser. And in death are all alike, Beggar,
                        Pope, and Kaiser.
                    No one, but by Christly life, Heaps eternal treasures; And through noble toil and strife Enters
                        heavenly pleasures.
                
            
               Land of the West
            
         
         
         
            The Walam Olum
            The Indiana Historical Society is searching for documentary evidence that Dr. John Russell Ward of
                    Cynthiana, 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1808, 1809, 1811; and 
                  Carlisle,
                            Kentucky
               , 1816-1829 was a friend and
                    botanical collaborator of Constantine Samuel Rafinesque while the latter was a resident of 
                        Lexington
                     and professor of Botany and Natural History at Transylvania (1819-1826).
            Rafinesque, in his American Nations (
                        Philadelphia
                    , 1836) published his translations of the now famous Lenape (
                        Delaware
                    ) Indian Walam Olum, believed by some students of American prehistory to be an authentic
                    historical chronicle of the Lenape and significant as the migration narrative of a portion of the
                    great Algonquian Indian linguistic family. The Walam Olum consisted of bundles of sticks or pieces
                    of bark upon which mnemonic ideographs, either incised or painted in red ochre, recalled to the
                    narrators the words of the chronicle as it was passed down from generation to generation.
            Rafinesque reported that the original wooden pieces were obtained from the Lenape living on
                        White River, Indiana, in the year 1820, by a Dr. Ward, "as a
                    reward for a medical cure deemed a curiosity." Rafinesque acquired the material two years
                    later (1822) in 
                        Kentucky
                    ; and from another individual a recital of the words to accompany the painted records.
                    His original manuscript transcribing the painted records and the words is in the Brinton Memorial
                    Library, at the University Museum, 
                        Philadelphia
                    .
            In his references to Dr. Ward, Rafinesque gave no identifying initials, no address. Daniel G.
                    Brinton, in his great study of the Walam Olum—The Lenape and their
                    legends (
                        Philadelphia
                    , 1885)—considered it probable that Dr. Ward was a member of the Cynthiana, 
                        Kentucky
                    , Ward family. The Indiana Historical Society has conducted a search for Dr. Ward, and
                    has found in the 
                        Kentucky
                    -Indiana-
                        Ohio
                    -
                        Illinois
                     area for the period under consideration (the 1820's), just one Dr.
                    Ward—Dr. John Russell Ward who was found in the 
                        Harrison County
                     court records at Cynthiana for the years 1808, 1809 and 1811; and later as a resident
                    of 
                        Carlisle
                    , Nicholas County, from 1816 to 1829. We also have definite proof that Rafinesque had a
                    botanical friend by the name of Dr. Ward who collected botanical specimens on White
                    River, Indiana, and  gave them to Rafinesque in the
                    year 1821. Also, we know that during the summer of 1822, the year Rafinesque acquired the Walam Olum
                    in 
                        Kentucky
                    , his travels were restricted to the small towns around 
                        Lexington
                    . Circumstantial, but undocumented, evidence points to the intriguing possibility that
                    Dr. John Russell Ward was Rafinesque's botanical friend through whom the Walam Olum was
                    preserved to enrich our knowledge of the past.
            The actual documentation of this relationship, important as it is in itself, is only a means to the
                    end that side by side with it we hope will be found descriptive references to the Walam Olum and
                    facts concerning the circumstances under which the painted records and the words to accompany them
                    actually passed from the Lenape through Dr. Ward to Rafinesque.
            Is it possible that some reader of the Indiana Magazine of History has old records,
                    letters, manuscripts, Indian "painted records" or anything else relating to 1) Dr.
                    Ward, 2) Ward-Rafinesque contacts, 3) the Walam Olum? Please send your information to
            Paul Weer 5650 North Meridian Street
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     8, Indiana
         
         
         
            Documents
            A College Freshman in 1858
            Lawrence Wheeler∗
            Freshmen in college more than ninety years ago were much like students of the mid-twentieth century.
                    They studied a little, they had many dates, they participated in all the recreational facilities
                    available, they hurried home at vacation time, worked on the farm and hurried back to the campus.
            The day-by-day diary of John Henry Louden, who entered Indiana University in the 1857-1858 school
                    year, gives surprising insight into college activities as he saw them. Later to be one of
                    Indiana's well-known attorneys, Louden was a native of 
                  Louden County, Pennsylvania
               , where he was
                    born November 24, 1835. His family moved to Dunlapsville, Indiana, in the southwest part of Union
                    County, five miles southwest of Liberty and eight miles southeast of 
                        Connersville
                    . The village of three stores, six shops, a Presbyterian church and a hundred
                    inhabitants was about a mile and a half from the Treaty line in the Whitewater Valley.
            When he entered Indiana University, there were 116 college students and 92 in the preparatory
                    department. He was a member of the Athenian Society, Sigma Chi and was graduated from the University
                    in 1861 and received a degree in law in 1864.
            Throughout his diary much reference is made to "Miss Lizzie" who was Elizabeth
                    Chestnut Hemphill whom he married March 18, 1863. She was the youngest child of James K. and Eliza
                    Millen Hemphill and was born in 
                        Bloomington
                     in 1836 in her father's home which was back of his mercantile store (Hemphill
                    and Labertow) on the west side of the public square, just north of the alley. She was a younger
                    sister of Martha Jane Hemphill who married James Woodburn and was the mother of James Albert
                    Woodburn.
            "Miss Lizzie" was, in the words of her nephew, James Albert Woodburn, "a
                    devoted Christian woman and was especially active in temperance work. After her death, in 1909, the
                        
                  
                     ∗ Lawrence Wheeler is professor of journalism and director
                            of communications at Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana. He was assisted in the annotation of the Diary by Lloyd Setser and
                            Mrs. Charlotte Rosenberg. The Louden Diary is deposited in the rare book collection of the
                            Indiana University Library.
               
                     Women's Christian Temperance Union erected a memorial
                    to her in the form of a drinking fountain at the southwest corner of the Square."
            Theodore J. Louden, Ida Jane Coblentz, and William Mc-Nary Louden were the children of John Henry and
                    Elizabeth Louden. When Colonel Theodore Louden closed his law office in 
                        Bloomington
                     in 1950, he and his father had occupied legal quarters on the same site for nearly
                    ninety years.
            John Henry Louden died June 3, 1911, and is buried in 
                        Bloomington
                    . His diary, as a college freshman and sophomore, follows: 
                  
                     
                        Friday, January 1, 1858: Clear day. Felt inclined to wish that I was at home. Spent
                                    the day in reading, writing, loafering and playing ball. Very nice day for the
                                    commencement of the New Year and augurs well for the future.
                        Saturday, January 2: Clear day. Spent it pretty much the same as the former one. In
                                    the afternoon went with Calvin to Schermerhorn's room.1
                        
                        Sunday, January 3: Clear and very pleasant day. Went to the A. R. Church to meeting.
                                    Walked home with Miss Lizzie.2 Read some. At night took my duck
                                    to the N.S. Church.3 Heard a very good sermon by Prof. Balantine
                                    on the New Year.4
                        
                        Monday, January 4: Clear day. Went to college which opened to day. 
                              
                                 1 E. Calvin Cooper of 
                                    Sparta, Illinois
                                 , was a sophomore. William W.
                                            Schermerhorn of Delphi was enrolled as a freshman and sophomore but did not
                                            graduate.
                              
                                 2 Miss Lizzie was Elizabeth Chestnut Hemphill.
                              
                                 3 N. S. refers to the New School Presbyterian church
                                            which resulted from a split in the late thirties. A. R. refers to the
                                            Associate Reformed Presbyterian church, later the United Presbyterian
                                            church. Lewis Cheeseman, Differences between Old and New School
                                                Presbyterians (
                                    Rochester, New
                                                York
                                 , 1848); The Semi-Centennial
                                                Anniversary of the United Presbyterian Congregation of 
                                                    Bloomington
                                                , Indiana (Blanchard, 
                                                Iowa
                                            , 1883).
                              
                                 4 Elisha Ballantine was born at Schodach Landing, 
                                                New York
                                            , October 27, 1814. In 1834 he attended an academy in York, 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                            , studied theology at Union Theological Seminary in 
                                                Virginia
                                            , and in 1834-1835, at Halle and Leipzig in 
                                                Germany
                                            . From 1838 until 1840 he was professor of languages at 
                                                Ohio
                                             University. After that he served several congregations and in
                                            1854 came to Indiana University as professor of mathematics. After filling
                                            this chair for two years, he was transferred to the chair of languages,
                                            Daniel Kirkwood of 
                                    Newark,
                                                    Delaware
                                 , having
                                            been chosen professor of mathematics. In 1863, Ballantine resigned his
                                            professorship in the University to accept a position as secretary of the
                                            American Board of Foreign Missions. Four years later he returned to Indiana
                                            University as professor of Greek. In 1878 he resigned his professorship, and
                                            after the resignation of Lemuel Moss in November, 1884, Ballantine was made
                                            acting president. When David Starr Jordan, professor of biology, was chosen
                                            president, Ballantine became vice president and professor of Greek. These
                                            positions he held until his death, March 31, 1886. Theophilus A. Wylie, Indiana University, Its History from 1820, when founded, to
                                                1890 (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1890), 119-121.
                           
                                     Proff. Kirkwood5 being
                                    unwell, Proff. Woodburn6 took his place. Assisted Mr. Given7 to carry a package of books from the depot. Got a Graeca
                                    Majora, Horace and Greek Lexicon. Read 40 lines in H.
                        Tuesday, January 5: Cloudy morning. Commenced to rain about ten. Attended college. Mr
                                    Robison of Rush co. came up in the evening and brought me the news from
                                        Fayettsville.8 Took Miss Lizzie to the exhibition of the
                                    Junior Class. Pretty good performance. Burlesque out on their program. Still
                                    raining.
                        Wednesday, January 6: Clear day. Got me a quietus.9 Received an
                                    invitation 
                              
                                 5 Daniel Kirkwood was born in 
                                    Harford County, Maryland
                                 , September 27, 1814. In 1834
                                            he attended an academy in York, 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                            , and afterwards became a teacher there. Seven years later he
                                            was chosen principal of the high school, of which John W. Forney and
                                            Thaddeus Stevens were directors. In 1851, Kirkwood was chosen president of 
                                                Delaware
                                             College, 
                                    Newark, Delaware
                                 . Five years later he was elected professor of
                                            mathematics at Indiana University, which position he occupied until 1886,
                                            with the exception of about two years, during which he filled the chair of
                                            mathematics and astronomy in Jefferson College, Canons-burg, 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                            . In 1886, Kirkwood resigned his professorship, having been
                                            connected with the University for nearly thirty years. In October, 1889,
                                            Professor and Mrs. Kirkwood (Sarah J. McNair of 
                                    Newton, Pennsylvania
                                 ), left for 
                                    Riverside, California
                                 . Ibid., 122-123.
                              
                                 6 James Woodburn was born in 
                                                Chester
                                             District, 
                                                South Carolina
                                            , September 11, 1817, and came to 
                                                Bloomington
                                             with his father's family in 1826. He was educated at
                                            the common schools of the county. In 1840 he entered the junior class of the
                                            University, was graduated in 1842, and in 1845 received the A.M. degree.
                                            Immediately after graduation he engaged in teaching. In 1846, he married
                                            Martha Jane Hemphill. Seven years later under the presidency of Alfred
                                            Ryors, he was acting professor of mathematics and civil engineering, and in
                                            1854 was called to fill the chair of adjunct professor of languages and
                                            principal of the preparatory department. For eleven years he faithfully
                                            discharged the duties of this position, acting sometimes as county surveyor,
                                            and often taking part in educational institutes. In 1865 he returned home
                                            sick, from an Institute he had been attending in 
                                                Vincennes
                                            , and on September 8 died from the disease there contracted. He
                                            was a ruling elder in the Reformed Presbyterian church in 
                                                Bloomington
                                            . Ibid., 119.
                              
                                 7 Noah S. Given, born September 30, 1833, in 
                                                Dearborn County
                                            , Indiana, was a resident of 
                                                Lawrenceburg
                                            . After attending Franklin College for three years, he
                                            matriculated at Indiana University receiving the A.B., A.M. and LL.B.
                                            degrees. He was a representative in the state legislature in 1863 and 1873,
                                            and also senator in 1875. In 1878 he was elected judge of the seventh
                                            judicial district. For five years he served as county examiner and school
                                            trustee for the city of 
                                                Lawrenceburg
                                            . He was married to Mary Martin. Ibid., 220.
                              
                                 8 John C. Robinson, born February 29, 1840, in 
                                                Rush County
                                            , Indiana, prepared for college in Fayetteville Academy.
                                            Fayetteville was located in the southwestern part of 
                                                Fayette County
                                            —not to be confused with the present Fayetteville
                                            located in 
                                                Lawrence County
                                            . Robinson was a district attorney in 1866, prosecuting attorney
                                            in 1868 and 1870, and elected a judge in 1876. Ibid., 229.
                              
                                 9 Since the University needed money for new buildings,
                                            the Board of Trustees in April, 1854, had provided for personally owned
                                            scholarships or "quietuses." Anyone who paid one hundred
                                            dollars to the treasurer of the University received a certificate
                                            authorizing him to keep one student in the preparatory and academic
                                            departments perpetually and without paying tuition. The quietus was in use
                                            for about a quarter of a century. A detailed account of this system of
                                            scholarships may be found in James Albert Woodburn, History of
                                                Indiana University, (n.p., 1940), 224-245.
                           
                                     to a party at Mr Blair's on Bean
                                    Blossom Thursday night.10
                        
                        Thursday, January 7: Clear day. Cool morning. Read thirty lines of Greek after
                                    dinner. About four, started in company with the rest to the party. Had a good time.
                                    Danced some. Was considerably amused at Mr Kayler,11 who
                                    cornered a lady on the table and seemed to have a happy time. Got home about 3.
                                    Studied some. Went to bed about 4.
                        Friday, January 8: Rose about seven o'clock. Felt a little the worse of the
                                    spree. Clear pleasant day. Went to college. Spent the most of the afternoon
                                    sleeping. Went to Society, which turned out pretty much of a bore.12 Six members joined. Got home about eleven.
                        Saturday, January 9: Rose tolerable early. Cloudy and raining a little. Went to
                                    college. Did not do anything. Mr Hamilton came on the ten o'clock train.13 Spent most of the afternoon running round town with him. Very
                                    muddy. Retired about ten.
                        Sunday, January 10: Rained all day. Went to meeting at Proff. Wylie's
                                        church.14 Went to the lecture at three o'clock.
                                    Turning cool and blowing a pretty strong gale. Read some. Broke the looking glass.
                        Monday, January 11: Cloudy and raining a little. Warm for the season. Went to
                                    college. Friend Robison came up to assist me in reading my Greek. Beam15 came in the evening. Bought a looking glass. Retired about half past
                                    ten.
                        Tuesday, January 12: Clear beautiful day. The freshman class had their lessons rather
                                    poor to day and had the pleasure of getting it over. Mr Hamilton came round in the
                                    evening. He talked of going home. Retired early.
                        Wednesday, January 13: Clear beautiful day. Went to chapel, where I heard John C.
                                        Wilson,16 one of the students was dead. On account of 
                              
                                 10 A mill stream, forty-five miles in length, rises in 
                                                Brown County
                                             and runs westwardly through 
                                                Monroe County
                                             emptying into the west fork of the White
                                            River near Gosport.
                              
                                 11 Samuel J. Kahler, born January 20, 1834, in
                                                    
                                    Center County, Pennsylvania
                                 , was a member of the
                                            graduating class of 1858. He was later a teacher and Methodist preacher and
                                            a member of the 
                                                Kansas
                                             Legislature. Wylie, Indiana University, 221.
                              
                                 12 Louden was a member of the Athenian Society. There
                                            were two literary societies at Indiana University while he was a
                                            student—The Philomathean Society and Athenian Society. Woodburn,
                                                Indiana University, 248.
                              
                                 13 S. R. Hamilton was a 
                                                Fayette County
                                             friend who appears frequently in the diary.
                              
                                 14 Theophilus A. Wylie was born on October 8, 1810, in 
                                                Philadelphia
                                            . He was the son of Samuel Brown Wylie and Margaret Watson
                                            Wylie. In 1830 he received the A.B. and A.M. degrees from the University of 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                            , He became a student in the Theological Seminary of the
                                            Reformed Presbyterian church, and in 1836 was licensed to preach. In the
                                            same year he was offered a professorship of natural philosophy and
                                            chemistry. He left 
                                                Philadelphia
                                             in the spring of 1837 and after a ten day journey reached 
                                                Bloomington
                                             in April. In 1852 he accepted an invitation at 
                                                Miami
                                             University, 
                                    Oxford, Ohio
                                 , where he remained for two and one-half years. He
                                            was married to Rebecca Dennis of 
                                    Germantown, Pennsylvania
                                 , November 5, 1838. Wylie, Indiana University, 106-107.
                              
                                 15 David E. Beem, born on June 24, 1837, at 
                                                Spencer
                                            , received the B.S. degree in 1858, A.B. in 1860, and A.M. in
                                            1863. Ibid., 224.
                              
                                 16 John C. Wilson, a freshman in 1858, was from
                                            Sullivan, Indiana.
                           
                                     this college was dismissed for today. Mr
                                    Hamilton came up in the afternoon and told me he was going home. Went to the
                                    funeral. Mr. Hamilton missed the train and by that means stayed all night with me.
                        Thursday, January 14: Rose early. Mr Hamilton took the freight at seven. Went to
                                    college. Proff. Kirkwood was able to be at recitations. Very pleasant day. Bought me
                                    a Legender for 2.15.17 Wrote a composition.
                        Friday, January 15: Cloudy and raining. Rose pretty early. Went to college. Got my
                                    language lesson out in the afternoon. Went to Society. Read a composition. Got home
                                    about twelve. Got apples.
                        Saturday, January 16: Cloudy. Snowed a little last evening. Declaimed. Finished
                                    reading Hume Sec. Vol. of 
                                        England
                                    . Pretty cool. Retired about half past ten.
                        Sunday, January 17: Clear, pleasant day. Went to Proff. Wylie's church. Went
                                    to college lecture. The Dr. commencing a series of Lectures on the hero, David. In
                                    the evening took Miss Lizzie to the 1st Presbyterian church, where I heared a sermon
                                    an hour and a half long by Fisk of 
                                        Greencastle
                                    .18
                        
                        Monday, January 18: Clear and very fine day. Went to college. Read thirty lines in
                                    Greek. Read some in Humes history of 
                                        England
                                    . The weather is extremely fine for the season.
                        Tuesday, January 19: Clear pleasant day. Rose early. Went to college as usual. Helped
                                    to drive some cattle to town.19 Read forty lines in Horace. Went
                                    over to Proff. Woodburns in the evening and had a pleasant time.
                        Wednesday, January 20: Rose tolerable early. Went to college and recited as usual.
                                    The weather is extremely fine for the season. It reminds us of the middle of April.
                                    People are becoming alarmed for fear they will have no ice for next summer.20
                        
                        Thursday, January 21: Clear pleasant day. About warm enough to give a person the
                                    spring fever. Suffered considerable from the headache, and a little bile that is
                                    collecting on the point of my shoulder. Went to bed pretty early.
                        Friday, January 22: Clear pleasant day. Went to college. Came home. Had a very bad
                                    headache. Did not study much. In the evening, went 
                              
                                 17 Legendre was the author of the standard text in The Elements of Geometry and Trigonometry after 1830. A
                                            copy of the book is in the Wylie Collection at Indiana University.
                              
                                 18 Ezra W. Fisk was born in 
                                    Wilmington, Windham
                                                    County, Vermont
                                 , May 29, 1820. About 1854 he accepted the
                                            pastorate of the Presbyterian church at 
                                                Greencastle
                                            . This position he resigned in 1872 for the presidency of the
                                            Female College of Indiana, which was located at 
                                                Greencastle
                                            . A Biographical History of Eminent and Self-Made
                                                Men of the State of Indiana (2 vols., 
                                    Cincinnati, Ohio
                                 , 1880), I, District 5, pp. 11-12.
                              
                                 19 Not only were cattle driven to 
                                                Bloomington
                                             for sale but most families maintained a cow. During the day,
                                            these animals grazed in Dunn's woods and other nearby pastures.
                                            Boys and college students earned small sums for driving them out in the
                                            morning and returning them to their various owners in the evening.
                              
                                 20 Ice ponds were numerous in or near 
                                                Bloomington
                                            . The ice cut in the winter was stored in sawdust for use in
                                            warmer weather.
                           
                                     with Mr. Elliott21 out to
                                    Mr McKinly's, where we found good company of Ladies.
                        Saturday, January 23: Clear pleasant day. Quite warm. Took Miss Lizzie down to public
                                    performances at the chapel. Spent the rest of the day in reading in Hume's
                                    history of 
                                        England
                                    . Retired early.
                        Sunday, January 24: Rained all day. Went to Proff. Wylies church. Did not go to the
                                    Lecture, on account of a "pet" I had on my shoulder. Did not go
                                    out at night.
                        Monday, January 25: Still raining. Went down to chapel but an account of the aforsaid
                                    "pet" did not stay for recitations. Got my latin lesson. Read some
                                    in Hume. Commenced the study of Geometry.
                        Tuesday, January 26: Clear day. Went to college. Recited as usual. Studied some in
                                    the afternoon. In the evening went to a singing at Proff. Woodburn. Had a glorious
                                    time. Took Miss Lu home.22 Got home and went to bed about 2 ocl.
                        Wednesday, January 27: Clear pleasant day. Attended college. Nothing of importance
                                    transpired till evening, when my chum & myself went down to old Uncys and
                                    got a dish of oysters.23 After a hard seige I succeeded in
                                    eating mine, but my chum left his.
                        Thursday, January 28: Cloudy and raining. Commenced snowing about nine. Attended
                                    college. Studied some in the afternoon. The first winter day of the season. Snowed
                                    considerable. Old winter is not going to be cheated out of his rights.
                        Friday, January 29: Cloudy day. Attended college. Recited as usual. Studied some in
                                    the afternoon. My Friend, J. C. E. got a little worsted during the evening.24 Went to Society. Had a pretty good time. Got home about
                                    twelve. Got something to eat
                        Saturday, January 30: Cloudy day. Went to chapel. Got a book out of the library. Did
                                    not perform. Read in Hume's history. My chum & myself went down to
                                    town in the evening.
                        Sunday, January 31: Clear day. Went to Proff. Wylie's church to meeting. At
                                    three o'clock took Miss Lizzie to chapel. Took a walk with my chum. Took
                                    Miss Lu to Methodist church. Took her home and spent a few minuits with her.
                        Monday, February 1: Snowing. Never waked up till the boys were shouting at me that
                                    the second bell had rung. Went to college and recited as usual. Snowed all day, it
                                    looks like old winter is not going to be cheated out of her rights. Retired early.
                        Tuesday, February 2: Clear. Pretty cool morning. Went through the 
                              
                                 21 James C. Elliott, born January 6, 1830, in
                                                    
                                    Sparta, Illinois
                                 , received the
                                            A.B. and A.M. degrees from Indiana University. He was pastor of the United
                                            Presbyterian church in 
                                    Wyoming,
                                                    Wisconsin
                                 , from
                                            1863 to 1868. From 1865 to 1868 he was a member of the board of directors of
                                            the United Presbyterian Theological Seminary at 
                                    Monmouth, Illinois
                                 , and from 1871 to 1876 a member of
                                            the board of Monmouth College, Wylie, Indiana, University,
                                            224-225.
                              
                                 22 Probably Louise Wylie Boisen.
                              
                                 23 Uncle Sid Pullen, whose daughter was the mother of
                                            Jim Hooper and Fanny Hooper Turner, had a shop, stocked with good things to
                                            eat, on College Avenue near Fourth Street in 
                                                Bloomington
                                            .
                              
                                 24 The initials seem to be those of James C.
                                        Elliott.
                           
                                     regular routine of business without any relief
                                    from head-ache or heart-ache.
                        Wednesday, February 3: Rose pretty early. Clear pleasant day overhead. The ground is
                                    not sufficiently froze for running slays. My chum and me went out on a spree. Had a
                                    good time with Lizzie & Mat.25 Got home about 1
                                    o'clock. Found we were bolted out. The old Lady came and open the door.
                        Thursday, February 4: My chum & myself feeling more like indulging in the
                                    slumbers of Morpheus, than pertaking of the luxury of the breakfast table, did not
                                    get up for that meal, although the old lady came to the door and called to us. Went
                                    to college.
                        Friday, February 5: Rose tolerable early. Stopped as I went to college and left a
                                    watch, that I broke the crystal out of last Thursday night for Miss Mat. to get one
                                    in. Finished reading the 3d vol. of Humes History. Went to Society. Had a good time.
                        Saturday, February 6: Rose tolerable early for Saturday morning. Went to college.
                                    Declaimed under N. S. Given, in Proff. Stones department.26
                                    Stopped a few minuits at Proff. Woodburns, and returned Miss Mattie watch. Spent the
                                    evening in social conversation. Snowed all day.
                        Sunday, February 7: Cloudy day. Tolerable pleasant. Went to Proff. Wylie's
                                    Church. After dinner went to chapel with friend Elliott. In the evening took Miss
                                    Lizzie to Methodist meeting. Received an invitation to attend the Anniversary of the
                                    Neotrophian Society on Thursday night.27
                        
                        Monday, February 8: Rose early. Went to college Pleasant day. The snow about all
                                    disappeared. In the evening went to see Miss Lu. Got an invitation to a party there
                                    tomorrow night. Got home about eleven. Went to bed immediately.
                        Tuesday, February 9: Cloudy. Commenced to rain about eight. Went to college. In the
                                    evening went over to Proff. Woodburns to take Miss Lizzie to the party. Went with
                                    Miss Mattie & Lizzie around to Mr Fosters for Miss McCaully. Had a tolerable
                                    good time at the party.
                        Wednesday, February 10: Cold morning. Froze up solid. Wind blowing and freezing equal
                                    to a frog pond in the Arctic Regions. Went to college. In the evening went with Mr
                                    Goven to Proff. Woodburns, to see the girls.
                        Thursday, February 11: Clear part of the day. Pretty cool. Went to college. In the
                                    evening went to the Academy to hear the Anniversary 
                              
                                 25 Probably Miss Mattie R. Cherry who was a student in
                                            the 
                                                Monroe
                                             Female Seminary and a member of the Neotrophian Society.
                                            Woodburn, Indiana University, 131.
                              
                                 26 Wilbur F. Stone, born December 28, 1832, in
                                            Litchfield, 
                                                Connecticut
                                            , was a tutor in 1857-1858. He received the A.B., A.M., and
                                            LL.D. degrees from Indiana University. Ibid., 260; Wylie,
                                                Indiana University, 218.
                              
                                 27 The Neotrophian Society was an organization of the 
                                                Monroe
                                             Female Seminary. Mrs. E. J. McFerson, a sister of Daniel Read,
                                            who was professor of ancient languages, was the principal of the seminary.
                                                Ibid., 115. It occupied a building at the northeast
                                            corner of Seventh and College Avenue.
                           
                                     of the Neotrophian Society. It was very good.
                                    Spoken by Miss Perring. Then took Miss Lizzie to the N.S. Church to hear a
                                    T[emperance] lecture by Miss Filkins.
                        Friday, February 12: Cloudy and cool day. Went to college. Received an invitation to
                                    a party at Mr Alexanders to night. Mr Lemon, Mr Miller & Dodd came up and
                                    spent the evening. Took Miss Lizzie to Anniversary of the Athenian S. After it was
                                    over went to the party. Took Miss Lizzie home about eleven.
                        Saturday, February 13: Heavy fall of snow last night. Went to college. Stayed for
                                    Moot Court. Snowed all day. Sleighs running. In the evening took Miss Lizzie to the
                                    Methodist church to hear a lecture on the "Plurality of Worlds,"
                                    by Proff. Hibben of 
                                        Greencastle
                                    .28 Had a good time with Lizzie & Mattie
                                    after going home.
                        Sunday, February 14: Clear day. Went to Proff. Wylie's church. Went to
                                    Chapel lecture, which was delivered by Dr Beck of 
                                        Centerville
                                    , Ind. Took a walk round the square with Calvin. Did not attend church.
                                    Retired early. Thawing considerable.
                        Monday, February 15: Snow about to leave. Went to college. Got a lot of valentines.
                                    Did not study very hard. Went up to town in the evening to the post office. The
                                    valentine[s] pouring in like water out of a coffee pot.
                        Tuesday, February 16: Clear day. Went to college as usual. Went to the post office
                                    after dinner and walked around the square with Miss Lu. Got out my latin and wrote a
                                    letter for Dowa.
                        Wednesday, February 17: Cool, clear morning. Went to college. Coming home at eleven
                                    met with my old teacher Reve R. B. Abbott. He was going to remain but a few days.
                                    Went out to play ball, but a disagreement arising, we throwed up. Retired early.
                        Thursday, February 18: Cloudy, cool day. Went to college. Did not play any after
                                    dinner on account of our fuss. In the evening, called in at Proff. Woodburns and had
                                    a big time with Lizzie and Mattie. Got home about ten o'clock. Raining and
                                    freezing. Very slick, by golly Lizzie is some.
                        Friday, February 19: Cloudy. Snowed some last night. Went to college. Snowed during
                                    the afternoon. Started to Society, when got as far as Proff. W. Lizzie &
                                    Mattie being out sliding on their chairs, they give me an invitation to take a ride,
                                    which I did. after this Lizzie pitched into Snow balling me and I had to give up.
                                    Got home about 1 o'c.
                        Saturday, February 20: Cloudy. Went to college. Declaimed under Mr Blount.29 Got a vol. of Moore's Poems. Read some in Humes
                                    History. Went down to town and spent an hour. In the evening I was called 
                              
                                 28 Probably Henry B. Hibben who taught in Indiana high
                                            schools and academies and for two years was an itinerant Methodist minister.
                                            For five years he held a professorship in Asbury (DePauw University). In
                                            1860 he was elected to fill the chair of English literature at Indiana
                                            University. The following year he resigned his professorship to become a
                                            chaplain in the army. In 1864, President Lincoln appointed him a chaplain in
                                            the navy, which position he held for more than twenty years. Woodburn, Indiana University, 267.
                              
                                 29 Brazillai M. Blount of West Kinderhook, 
                                                New York
                                            , was a junior in 1858. Wylie, Indiana
                                            University, 386.
                           
                                     on to assist an old drunkerd, who had lay down
                                    in the fence corner. It was a most detestable sight. Returned about eleven.
                        Sunday, February 21: Cool morning. Went to Proff. Wylie's church. Snowed
                                    till about two o'clock, which makes it very good slaying. Went chapel
                                    lecture. Very few out. In the evening went to camelite meeting.30 Where there was two dipped.
                        Monday, February 22: Very cold morning. Went to college. Recited in languages, the
                                    Proff. of Mathematics being absent, we were excused from that. Got out my lessons
                                    & read about seventy five pages of Hume. Did not feel very lively. Went to
                                    town after some gas.31 Retired about ten.
                        Tuesday, February 23: Clear day. Snow melted considerable. Went to college. Did not
                                    study very hard. Read about one hundred pages of Hume. Retired early.
                        Wednesday, February 24: Rose early. Clear day. Went to college. After dinner went to
                                    Mr. Robison's room to get my latin lesson. Got back in time for supper.
                                    Wrote a letter to Howe of 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    . Retired about ten.
                        Thursday, February 25: Clear day. Rose early. On account of it being Thanksgiving
                                    day, did not go to college. Went to Proff. Wylie's church. In the afternoon
                                    went to prayer meeting in the college. After night took Miss Lizzie & Mattie
                                    to church. Stayed with them till twelve.
                        Friday, February 26: Clear day. Went to college. The Freshman class, made quite a
                                    fine appearance. There was only about six regulars present, and about a dozen of
                                    scientifics. Went to Society. Got home about one o. Finished the fourth vol. of
                                    Humes history.
                        Saturday, February 27: Clear day. Very warm. Went to chapel prayers. Did not stay to
                                    perform. Felt rather mean for doing any thing. Went up to town and spent some time.
                                    Read some in Hume. Retired early.
                        Sunday, February 28: Cloudy. Snowed some last night. Went to Proff. W. church. Went
                                    to the college lecture. In the evening went to the Camelite church with Miss Lizzie.
                                    Stayed with her a few min. after came home and read an outrageous valentine.
                        Monday, March 1: Cloudy and pretty cold. Went to college. Commenced to review for
                                    examination. Mr Blair called in after dinner. Did not feel very well. Went to bed
                                    early.
                        Tuesday, March 2: Clear cold day. Went to college. Did not receite in languages, the
                                    Proff. being absent on account of sickness in his 
                              
                                 30 Alexander Campbell, one of the founders of the
                                            Disciples of Christ, was born in county 
                                    Antrim, Ireland
                                 ,
                                            on September 12, 1788. In 1809 the family came to America. Thirty-one years
                                            later he founded Bethany College in the present 
                                                West Virginia
                                             and became its president. The followers of 
                                                Campbell
                                             were referred to as Campbellites. The latter part of 1850 while
                                            the Indiana state constitutional convention was in session he visited 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             and the governor and the members of the convention attended 
                                                Campbell
                                            's meeting. On this trip he also visited his old friend
                                            Andrew Wylie in 
                                                Bloomington
                                            . Robert Richardson, Memoirs of Alexander
                                            Campbell (
                                    Cincinnati,
                                                    Ohio
                                 , 1897), I,
                                            19, 205, II, 485, 589.
                              
                                 31 Gossip or light conversation!!
                           
                                     family. Mr Wilson32 called
                                    in to see a feller, and also Mr McNeal.33 Committed some
                                    devilment and then went to bed, about twelve.
                        Wednesday, March 3: Clear day. Went to college. The Freshman class was well
                                    represented today, and all read very well. Going down in the morning seen a lady,
                                    slam a celler door to and run. Wonder why? Bead sixty lines in Greek. Retired early.
                        Thursday, March 4: Rose pretty early. Went to college. Got home at eleven as usual.
                                    Read one hundred lines in latin. Had a slight pain in one of my teeth, and
                                    wasn't very well other ways.
                        Friday, March 5: Clear beautiful day. Did not go to college, on account of having a
                                    very severe head-acke, and also a bad cold. Went up to town in the afternoon and
                                    looked around. Did not go to Society. Retired about ten.
                        Saturday, March 6: Snowing. Soon dried it up. Went to college. Public day.34 Some very good speeches. Stayed for Moot Court.35 A large criminal case on the docket. After dinner, went to Moot Court
                                    again, and took Miss Lizzie. Did the same after supper. Five pretty speeches made.
                                    Got home about eleven.
                        Sunday, March 7: Cloudy and chilly day. Did not go to church. Went to chapel. Spent
                                    the day, one way and another, but not very well I am afraid. Did not go to church at
                                    night. Did not feel well, and was very sick part of the day.
                        Monday, March 8: Clear day. Pretty cool. Went to college. But in the first place an
                                    old Lady that stayed all night, hollowed us up. Was very unwell. Studied some, but
                                    not a great deal. Went to the post office. My friend, Elliott got a
                                    "whopper." Retired early.
                        Tuesday, March 9: Clear pleasant day. Went to college. Did not study very hard. In
                                    the evening went and took Miss Lizzie to the Anniversary of the Caliopean Society.
                                    Very good addres on the "Prose and Poetry of Life." Heard Dr.
                                    Murphy struck Dr. Dailey.36
                        
                        
                           
                              32 Probably John H. Wilson who graduated in 1860. After
                                        graduation he taught Latin, mathematics, and Greek at Monmouth College. Wylie,
                                            Indiana University, 226.
                           
                              33 Probably Harrison McNeil from Indianola, 
                                            Iowa
                                        , also a member of the class of 1860. Ibid., 225.
                           
                              34 Students were required to prepare orations, essays, and
                                        declamations which were given as class exercises on Saturday mornings. Every
                                        third Saturday there was a "Public" in the College chapel.
                                        From eight to ten performers appeared on the two-hour program. The faculty and
                                        students were required to attend and anybody else who wished might come.
                                        Woodburn, Indiana University, 140-141.
                           
                              35 A moot court was held in the school of law in which the
                                        students of both classes were exercised in the preparation of pleadings, rules
                                        of practice, forms of record entries, and discussion of legal questions. At
                                        first the court was held every Saturday. Samuel B. Harding, Indiana
                                            University, 1820-1904. (
                                            Bloomington
                                        , 1904), 168-169.
                           
                              36 William M. Daily, a native of 
                                            Ohio
                                        , was elected to the Board of Trustees of Indiana University on
                                        February 10, 1853, and in August of the same year became president of the
                                        University. In July, 1858, A. M. Murphy, a doctor of 
                                            Bloomington
                                        , filed charges against Daily. The latter was accused of being
                                        incompetent, of being no disciplinarian, of misquoting the formula used in
                                        conferring degrees, of not paying his debts, and of plagiarism. None of the
                                        charges were sustained. Ivy L. Chamness and Burton D. Myers (eds.), Trustees and Officers of Indiana University, 1820 to 1950 (n.p.,
                                        1951), 445-460, 327.
                        
                        
                        Wednesday, March 10: Clear and very fine day. Went to college. Had a pretty good
                                    recitation all through. Commenced reviewing Geometry. Several ladies called in. Was
                                    invited to a party here to morrow night. Retired early.
                        Thursday, March 11: Clear pleasant day. Went to college. Heard the Senior Class was
                                    about to bust. Went and brought Miss Lizzie to the party. Had an introduction to
                                    several fine ladies. Among whom was Miss Gamble. Took Miss Lizzie home. Retired
                                    about two.
                        Friday, March 12: Clear fine day. Went to college. Felt pretty sleepy. After dinner
                                    went up to town. Coming back stopped at Proff. W. Had some fun. Went with Miss
                                    Lizzie over to Mr Blair's. Very pleasant strolling over the fields. Went to
                                    society. Got home.
                        Saturday, March 13: Clear warm day. Very well calculated to give a person the spring
                                    fever. Went to college. Read a composition. Did not study any. Felt pretty dizzy.
                                    Friends, Edgar, Hood, Given Barton called in." Went up to town to auction.
                        Sunday, March 14: Very warm sultry day. Threatens rain. Went to Proff. church. Took
                                    Miss Lizzie down to chapel. The Dr. give us a very good one on the scences of life.
                                    Took Miss Lizzie to the O.S. Presbyterian church where Mr. Shaw a prorenata
                                        preached.38 Stayed with her eleven.
                        Monday, March 15: Rose pretty early. Raining. Went to college. Cleared off about ten.
                                    Studied some. Very warm, calculated to give a person the spring fever. The Senior
                                    Class have a party to night, given Dr. Dailey. Retired early.
                        Tuesday, March 16: Cloudy and very warm. Went to college. Bid friend Given good-bye,
                                    as he was going home. Bored a little over the latin, during the afternoon. In the
                                    evening called in at Proff. and spent an hour very pleasantly with Miss Lizzie.
                        Wednesday, March 17: Cloudy and raining. Did not go to college. Couple of ladies
                                    called in to our room to see us. Spent the day in talking, studying, reading,
                                    writing, eating eggs, and playing—Walked to the post office. Rained some
                                    during the day.
                        Thursday, March 18: Clear warm day. Went to college and recited in mathematics.
                                    Studied some during the afternoon. In the evening took Miss Lizzie to a concert in
                                    the college chapel. Pretty good performance.—the ladies looked charming.
                        
                           
                              37 Robert S. Edgar, a resident of Coultersville, 
                                            Illinois
                                        , graduated from Indiana University in 1861; John Hood, a native of
                                                
                                 Washington County, Illinois
                              , was a member of
                                        the class of 1862; probably Noah S. Given, a native of 
                                            Dearborn County
                                        , who was graduated in 1859; probably Philip H. Barton from 
                                            Washington
                                        , Indiana, who was a sophomore in 1859. Wylie, Indiana
                                            University, 220, 227, 231, 384.
                           
                              38 Prorenta, a name for the Old Side or Old Style
                                        Covenanters. "The thing as born or originally established."
                                        The Old Style and New Style Presbyterian branches finally joined again in 1869
                                        after a lapse of thirty-two years. The Union Church was at Ninth and College
                                        Avenues. "The Old Side branch, the original Old Covenanters, the early
                                        church of our fathers, opposed to all change of faith, or innovation in custom,
                                        … have maintained until now a successful separate existence, and
                                        constitute to-day Mr. Shaw's prosperous congregation." Semi-Centennial Anniversary of the United Presbyterian Congregation
                                            of 
                                                Bloomington
                                            , Indiana, 42.
                        
                        
                        Friday, March 19: Warm and sultry. Went to college. Did not recite the first hour on
                                    account of a fellow being there with a perpetual almanac, which he explained for an
                                    hour. Bought one. Wrote a compos[ition]. Went to society. Read a compos[ition].
                                    Received an invitation to a party, at Mr Crabs on Monday night.
                        Saturday, March 20: Cloudy. Rained greater part of the day. Went to college.
                                    Declaimed. Mr McNeal and Mr Doods called in.39 In the afternoon
                                    went to Macs room. Mr Edgar & Hood called up to see us. In the evening went
                                    over and spent an hour very pleasantly with my "duck". Raining
                                    still.
                        Sunday, March 21: Clear cool day. Went to church at Proff. Wylie's. Went to
                                    college chapel. Heard a very good lecture. In the evening, took Miss Lizzie to the
                                    Methodist Church. Stayed with her a few minuits after we came home. Retired about
                                    11.
                        Monday, March 22: Cloudy and chilly. Went to college. After dinner went to the livery
                                    stable to hire a buss but could not get one.40 In the evening
                                    took Miss Lizzie out to a party at Mr Crabs. Had a big time going out, crossing
                                    fences, and branches, and wading through brush and briers. And a little worse coming
                                    home. Retired about two.
                        Tuesday, March 23: Clear pleasant day. Went to college. Felt rather dull after the
                                    ramble last night. Slep some during the afternoon. In the evening took Miss Lizzie
                                    down to chapel to hear the speeches of the graduates in the Law department.41 There we[re] eight very good speeches. Got home about eleven.
                        Wednesday, March 24: Clear pleasant day. Went to college. Nothing new except that
                                    some of the students were taken up for making a fuss the evening before in the
                                    chapel. In the evening took Miss Lizzie down to chapel to hear the address delivered
                                    to the law students by Judge Bryant.42 Very good thing.
                        Thursday, March 25: Clear pleasant morning. Went to college. Did not feel very well.
                                    Studied some. In the evening, took Miss Lizzie to the 
                              
                                 39 Probably Samuel W. Dodds, a native of Corydon,
                                            Indiana, was a member of the class of 1861. Wylie, Indiana
                                                University, 227.
                              
                                 40 Omnibuses for picnics and parties were for hire in 
                                                Bloomington
                                            . They were able to seat a dozen or so and were drawn by two
                                            horses.
                              
                                 41 The eight graduates of the law department were
                                            Newton Burwell of Bluffton, later a Methodist preacher and member of the
                                            state legislature; Stephen Girard Burton of 
                                    Lebanon, Kentucky
                                 , a politician and minister, member of the
                                            Indiana Legislature for two terms; Benjamin F. Cavins of 
                                                New Albany
                                            , lawyer and Baptist minister, served in the Civil War; Andrew
                                            Jackson Lee of Starville, 
                                                Texas
                                            ; Eli K. Millen of 
                                                Bloomington
                                            , served as prosecuting attorney of 
                                                Monroe County
                                             immediately after leaving college; Hosea Murray of Springhill;
                                            Wilbur Fiske Stone of 
                                    Denver, Colorado
                                 ;
                                            and James B. Turner of Elizabeth town, 
                                                Illinois
                                            . Ibid., 216, 218, 328-329.
                              
                                 42 Probably James Ray McCorkle Bryant who was born at 
                                                Philadelphia
                                             on June 25, 1802. In 1823 he married Dorcas G. Ellis, daughter
                                            of Robert Ellis of the treasury department, 
                                                Washington
                                            , D.C. Bryant was a member of the Indiana constitutional
                                            convention in 1850-1851. In 1855 he was appointed as a trustee of Indiana
                                            University for a four-year term. From 1857 to 1859 he served as a trustee
                                            and professor of law at Indiana University. Myers, Trustees and
                                                Officers of Indiana University, 210-212.
                           
                                     Monroe F. Academy to see some experiments in
                                    chemistry. Got home about eleven.
                        Friday, March 26: Clear and very warm. Went to college and recited in Mathematics.
                                    Studied some in the afternoon. Received a check on the Bank. Went to society in the
                                    evening, where we suspended Mr. Dobsin." Came home early, on account of
                                    going to be examined to morrow in mathematics.
                        Saturday, March 27: Clear morning. Rained a little about noon. Went to chapel
                                    prayers. Ramsey Huston called in to see me after dinner.
                        Sunday, March 28: Clear day. Went down to town to tell the Dr to come and see my
                                    chum. Went to Proff. Wylie's Church. Took Miss Lizzie down to chape [1].
                                    Heard a lecture on Home. In the evening took Miss Lizzie to the O.S. church to hear
                                    Mr Fisk preach. Very good sermon of an hours length.
                        Monday, March 29: Clear pleasant day. Did not feel very well. Went to chapel. Packed
                                    up my books. Went with friend Elliott to the woods to hear him speak his speech.44 In the evening took Miss Lizzie to the exhibition of the
                                    Athenian Society. Very good performance.
                        Tuesday, March 30: Very pleasant day. Went to chapel. Alexander45
                                    & Edgar came to my room. Was examined in languages in the afternoon. Got off
                                    pretty easy. Took Miss Lizzie to the exhibition of the Philo Society. Stayed with
                                    her till about half after one.
                        Wednesday, March 31: Clear pleasant day. Went to chapel. Went with friend Elliott out
                                    to Mr McKinleys. Had a fine time with the gals. Friend Cooper helped me to carry my
                                    trunk to the depot. Went around and bid Miss Lizzie Goodbye. Hated to leave her.
                        Thursday, April 1: Got to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     at 1 o'clock last night. Raining this morning. Stayed at the
                                    Little Hotel. Left at one for 
                                        Cambridge city
                                    . Arrived at four. Stayed there till eight, and then put out on the bus
                                    for 
                                        Connersville
                                    . Got there at eleven, and put up at the Scofield House.
                        Friday, April 2: Cloudy. After eating some breakfast went out into town to see what I
                                    could see. Met several old friends. Father came in for me. Seen my old
                                    "chum" S. R. Hamilton. Started for home about four. Roads pretty
                                    bad. Got there at seven. Seen Ag. All well.
                        Saturday, April 3: Clear warm day. Helped to haul some wood in the forenoon. Pam and
                                    Maria come in the evening, "all look as large as life and twice as
                                    natural."
                        Sunday, April 4: Clear pleasant day. Went to Church in the bus. Heard 
                              
                                 43 There were three boys named Dobson enrolled in
                                            1858, David M., Benjamin F., and Joseph L., all from 
                                                Spencer
                                            . None of them graduated. Wylie, Indiana
                                            University, 400.
                              
                                 44 The use of Dunn's Woods, later to be the
                                            campus of the University, and other outlying forest areas were often the
                                            scene of practice oratory.
                              
                                 45 John D. Alexander, born February 6, 1839, in 
                                                Bloomington
                                            , Indiana, was a member of the class of 1861. In 1862 he entered
                                            the army and served three years. Eighteen years later he was elected a
                                            ruling elder in the Cumberland Presbyterian church. On December 8, 1886 he
                                            was married to Mary M. Rogers. Ibid., 226-227.
                           
                                     two long sermons by Dr. Heron. Seen several of
                                    my old playmates. Spoke to Miss—-. Felt pretty lonesome in the evening.
                                    Wrote a letter to my "duck" that I left behind me.
                        Monday, April 5: Clear pleasant day. Rolled logs and piled chunks most of the day. In
                                    the evening went to see Miss Emmy.48 Had a big time with her in
                                    general and a glorious time in particular. Squeezed her till twelve.
                        Tuesday, April 6: Clear day. Commenced plowing. In the evening went to Vienna.47 Seen Miss Gray.
                        Wednesday, April 7: Cloudy and pretty cool. Plowed all day. Rained some in the
                                    evening.
                        Thursday, April 8: Cloudy and raining a little. Plowed. Old Jonathan Davis called in
                                    at noon, and endeavored to enlighten me a little on my physical and mental
                                    abilities. He is an incessant bore. Rained from noon till sundown.
                        Friday, April 9: Clear morning. Plowed all day. Went to Vienna in the evening. Got a
                                    letter from my "chum" E. C. Cooper. Also received one the same
                                    evening from Mr. Elliott.
                        Saturday, April 10: Cloudy. Rained a little, during the day. Did not do much of any
                                    thing in particular.
                        Sunday, April 11: Raining. Did not go to Church. Kindled a fire in my room and sit
                                    there all day, with the blines down, and the shutters closed. Felt pretty lonesome,
                                    when I would think of the pleasant Sundays I had spent in company with Lizzie.
                                    Smoked cigars to put in the time.
                        Monday, April 12: Warm and sultry. Hauled some hay. Went to old Mr Littles after some
                                    corn. Got my dinner. Had a pretty good time with the old man. Rained. From present
                                    appearance, it looks like a very early spring. Went to Milligans found them minus.
                        Tuesday, April 13: Warm and cloudy. Went to Mr Nashes to a barn raising. Got home
                                    about two. Went down to James Miller's, and staid all night. Roads in an
                                    awful bad condition. Found the folks all able to navigate.
                        Wednesday, April 14: Cloudy. A degree or two cooler than the preceding. Got home
                                    about noon. Rained some. Built some fence. Tom Marks came along and talked an hour
                                    or two. And so and so.
                        Thursday, April 15: Slightly cloudy. This day was appointed as a fast day by a
                                    revival convention. Did not go to Church. Read some latin. Read some in the life of
                                    Luther. Got a letter from my "chum."
                        Friday, April 16: Cloudy and warm. Rode out in search of some hogs that had left.
                                    This seems to be a very early Spring. Grass, wheat and every thing else very
                                    forward. The peach trees have been in bloom for a week or two. Got a letter from my
                                    "duck."
                        Saturday, April 17: Cloudy and damp. Plowed most of the day.
                        Sunday, April 18: Cloudy and raining. Went to Church in the buggy. Put in a pretty
                                    hard day writing notes with Mr Nisbet. Roads very 
                              
                                 46 It is possible that Miss Emmy never met Miss
                                            Lizzie.
                              
                                 47 Vienna was a small town in 
                                                Rush County
                                            , east of Rushville. This little village is not to be confused
                                            with the present town by the same name in Scott County.
                           
                                     muddy. Come near sticking several times.
                                    Sacrament next Sabbeth.
                        Monday, April 19: Cloudy. Pruned some apple trees. Every thing is growing very rapid
                                    but the ground is so wet the farmers can't do any thing.
                        Tuesday, April 20: Cloudy and showered all day. Went to 
                                        Connersville
                                    , and spent most of the day. Got a pair of pants cut. Got caught in a
                                    shower of rain coming home. Stopped in Benedicts Stable.
                        Wednesday, April 21: Clear and very pleasant. Went over to Ag. And packed her young
                                    one over here. In the evening took a ride around creation in search of some cows.
                                    Got a letter from my "chum". Took the big Jaw.
                        Thursday, April 22: Clear and warm. My Jaw swelled up pretty bad-Plowed most of the
                                    day. Did not feel very well. Rained and blowed some in the evening.
                        Friday, April 23: Pretty cool. Wind blowing. This was kept as a fast day previous to
                                    the sacrament. Did not go to church. Read some in various authors.
                        Saturday, April 24: Clear and cool. Went to meeting. Heard a sermon preached by Dr.
                                    Wilson of 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    .
                        Sunday, April 25: Cold morning. Snowed some last night. Went to church. Went to the
                                    sacrament table. Services were tolerably protracted.
                        Monday, April 26: Cloudy and cool. Went to church. After meeting was over talked
                                    awhile to the ladies. In the evening went to Ag. Met with R. Blueston. Went to see
                                    Em. had a pretty good time. Eat some ginger bread and left.
                        Tuesday, April 27: Clear cool day. Raked some stalks till noon. Plowed in the
                                    afternoon.
                        Wednesday, April 28: Plowed all day. Very pleasant weather. Studied some.
                        Thursday, April 29: Plowed all day very hard. At noon read sixteen lines of latin.
                                    Got out one proposition in geometry. Read some in Walter Scott
                        Friday, April 30: A few clouds dot the horizon. Did not feel very well. Rained some
                                    in the evening.
                        Saturday, May 1: Plowed part of the day, and part of it, it rained. In the evening
                                    went to 
                                        Connersville
                                    . Received a letter from Dr Daily. Very muddy. Did not get home till
                                    late.
                        Sunday, May 2: Pretty nice day. A few clouds flying. Dr Heron did not preach, and I
                                    stayed at home. Read some in different books, and spent the day various ways. Rained
                                    some in the evening.
                        Monday, May 3: Cloudy and rained some. Plowed. Read a few latin odes in Horace.
                                    Finished Scotts "Lady of the Lake," which is a nice tale. Read his
                                    "Don Roderick" which is also pretty good.
                        Tuesday, May 4: Cloudy. Rained very heavy last night. Rained once and awhile as
                                    occasion permitted. Read some Greek.
                        Wednesday, May 5: Cloudy and a little cooler. Read some latin. Rained some.
                        Thursday, May 6: Cloudy and cool. Built some fence. Read some latin and studied a
                                    little at Geometry. Worked some in the garden, planting beats.
                        
                        Friday, May 7: Clear warm day. All went to 
                                        Connersville
                                     except myself. Started to Vienna in the afternoon and the horse scaring
                                    with me. And the saddle breaking I found myself in the mud. I felt like pronouncing
                                    the curse upon the horse, that Horace did on the tree.
                        Saturday, May 8: Clear warm day. Plowed. Nothing of importance occurred. I did not
                                    feel as well as might. I have not completely got over my horse throw.
                        Sunday, May 9: Cloudy, but pleasant day. Did not go to church. S. R. Hamilton came in
                                    the evening to stay all night. Had quite an interesting conversation with him on
                                    different topics. Took a walk and smoked a cigar.
                        Monday, May 10: Raining and very chilly. Rained all day. Mr Hamilton stayed till
                                    after dinner. Wrote two or three letters, and put in the evening one way or another.
                        Tuesday, May 11: Still raining. Very dull and gloomy weather. Had the horrors all
                                    day, and felt very lonesome. Studied out four or five propositions in Geometry.
                                    Retired pretty early.
                        Wednesday, May 12: Clear pleasant day. Built fence. Scarcely any corn planted yet, on
                                    account of the wetness of the season. Wheat and grass are very forward, but corn
                                    will evidently be late.
                        Thursday, May 13: Clear and warm. Plowed all day. Threatened rain in the evening. Did
                                    not feel very well, hence did not read or study much,—retired pretty
                                    early.
                        Friday, May 14: Cloudy. Thundered, lightened and rained very hard last night. Read
                                    some in Walter Scotts "Lay of the Last Minstrel." Went up to
                                    Vienna. Towards evening there came up a very hard thunder gust with wind and rain.
                                    Blowed all the fences down.
                        Saturday, May 15: Cloudy and warm. Built the fences up that the storm throwed down.
                                    Rained a little in the evening. Wrote some items. This has been a very wet, dismal
                                    week. Scarcely any corn planted yet.
                        Sunday, May 16: Raining. Blowed off about ten. Went to Church. Heard two long sermons
                                    by Dr. Heron. Roads very bad.
                        Monday, May 17: Clear and warm. Planted some Water-melons. Built some fence. After
                                    dinner it rained pretty much all evening.
                        Tuesday, May 18: Clear day. Went to 
                                        Connersville
                                    . Got home about 2 ocl. Bought a copy of Pope's Works. Built
                                    some fence.
                        Wednesday, May 19: Clear day. Sawed up a old walnut the wind had blowed down.
                        Thursday, May 20: Went and worked on the roads all day.48 Pretty
                                    cool all day. Rained some last night.
                        Friday, May 21: Clear warm day worked on the roads to day again. Charley Washam
                                    supervisor. Plowed a while in the evening.
                        Saturday, May 22: Clear day. Plowed. The Misses Harris came over in the afternoon.
                                    Had a pretty large time with them.
                        Sunday, May 23: Cloudy—rained some last night. Went to Prorenata 
                              
                                 48 It was the duty of the road supervisor to order out
                                            every person in his district to work on roads and highways two days between
                                            the fifteenth day of May and the first day of July annually. Laws of Indiana, 1839-1840, pp. 10-11.
                           
                                     meeting. Heard a long sermon by Dodds. At
                                    intermission went down to James Hillers. Got my dinner, and stayed till night. Got
                                    home about sundown. Threatens rain.
                        Monday, May 24: Cloudy. Commenced furrine out ground to plant. Came on rain about
                                    nine. Rained the rest of the day. Read some latin. Read some in Pope, and some in
                                    Rollin. Retired early.
                        Tuesday, May 25: Raining. Cleared off about noon. Read some latin. Wrote some. Read
                                    Pope's Essay on Man. Very wet time. Wrote a letter or two. Retired about
                                    eleven.
                        Wednesday, May 26: Cloudy. Pretty cool day. Done some little turns about the house.
                                    Set out some cabbage plants. Read some latin. Read some in Rollin.
                        Thursday, May 27: Clear and warm. Split a few rails. Mr Miller & Mr R. S.
                                    Hamilton coming in the middle of the forenoon. I quit. We all went out squirl
                                    hunting. Mrs. Harris and Maria were also here. They all stayed over night.
                        Friday, May 28: Clear. After the folks had left went to furring out. Planted some in
                                    the afternoon. Pretty wet. Rained some about dusk. Got very sick about bed time.
                        Saturday, May 29: Cloudy. Rained right smart last night. Had a very bad head acke.
                                    Did not do anything except hunt a little in the evening. Very warm.
                        Sunday, May 30: Cloudy most of the day. Stayed at home as I was not very well. Read
                                    some in the Life of Luther, and some other works. Thundered most of the day but did
                                    not rain.
                        Monday, May 81: Cloudy. Rained some last night. Went out to plow, but coming on rain
                                    and I quit. Hauled some logs. Read some in different things. Plowed some after
                                    supper. Was not very well. Retired early.
                        Tuesday, June 1: Clear and very pleasant day. Crossed out ground till noon. Plowed in
                                    the afternoon. This is the first day of June, and there is scarcely any corn
                                    planted. Last month was aperpetual rain all the time.
                        Wednesday, June 2: Threatened rain. Covered corn with the hop-jack48 till the middle of the afternoon, when it commenced raining. Did not rain
                                    very heavy.
                        Thursday, June 3: Cloudy morning. Rained last night. Plowed all day. Very warm.
                                    Nothing of interest transpired. Every body wanting there corn planted, but
                                    can't get it for the wet weather.
                        Friday, June 4: Clear morning. Very warm. Covered corn till noon. Went out to plow,
                                    but it came on rain. In the evening went out hunting. Went up to Vienna.
                        Saturday, June 5: Went out hunting a while this morning. Finished breaking up by
                                    noon. Rained all the afternoon. Read some latin. Read some in Macauley's
                                    History of 
                                        England
                                    .
                        Sunday, June 6: Rained all last night. Pretty large fresh. Cleared off. Stayed at
                                    home all day. Read some in the Life of Luther.
                        
                           
                              49 Probably a local term applied to a plow so arranged as
                                        to avoid roots and stones.
                        
                        
                        Monday, June 7: Clear day. Pretty warm. Went out hunting in the forenoon. Afternoon,
                                    went to 
                                        Connersville
                                     to hear Sam Parker50 make a speech on the Junction
                                    Rail-road. Sammy a pretty fluent speaker, but he has some wild screems and odd
                                    gestures.
                        Tuesday, June 8: Clear. Exceedingly warm day. Cross off ground.
                        Wednesday, June 8: Clear morning, but cloudy during the afternoon. Planted corn.
                                    Commenced raining about dark. Nothing of any importance going on in the
                                    neighborhood.
                        Thursday, June 10: Cloudy and warm. Finished planting, all except the orchard, by
                                    noon. Broke up the orchard. Commenced raining about 4 P.M. Read some in Maccauly
                                    History of 
                                        England
                                    . Retired early.
                        Friday, June 11: Raining. Continued to do so all day. Read some latin. Read some in
                                    Macaulay's. Went to Vienna. The creek so high the mail could not get out.
                                    An Exhibition out at Fairview.51
                        
                        Saturday, June 12: Cloudy and misty. Replanted corn. Rained some at noon. Jim Nisbet
                                    called a while. Read some in Macaulays. Some in Rollin. Retired about eleven pretty
                                    sleepy.
                        Sunday, June 13: Clear and very pleasant day. Went to church. Heard a sermon by Dr
                                    Heron, and one by his Son John Heron. Sunday school was opened to continue during
                                    the summer. Retired early.
                        Monday, June 14: Clear and pleasant day. Heard that my old friend Tom Milligan52 was going to get married on the 17 inst to Miss Isabelle
                                    Gamble of 
                                        Bloomington
                                    . We wish them a whole hat full of Joy. Tom is a whole souled fellow,
                                    & Bell is hard to beet.
                        Tuesday, June 15: Clear pleasant day. Covered potatoes. Robert Martin called in the
                                    evening and got Jim Millers rifle. He is a hard fellow on the fast young women of
                                    the present age.
                        Wednesday, June 16: Clear pleasant day. Replanted corn till noon. Then went to
                                    Fayetteville to an exhibition of the Academy. Dodds Prin. Pretty good exhibition
                                    considering, but nothing extra. Music good.
                        Thursday, June 17: Clear day and very warm. Replanted corn. Mr Hamilton coming in the
                                    evening, we had some talk about old affairs. He stayed all night.
                        Friday, June 18: Clear and warm. Mr Hamilton got my horse to go out to see Morrison,
                                    when the Commencement was at 
                                        Oxford
                                    , as we have some notion of going down.83 Harrowed
                                    corn. Went up to Vienna in the evening.
                        
                           
                              50 Samuel W. Parker was a graduate of Miami University who
                                        for a time operated a private school in 
                                            Connersville
                                        . In 1831 he became a lawyer and served two terms in the Indiana
                                        General Assembly. He was an ardent opponent of the 
                                            Missouri
                                         Compromise. As an orator he was able to bring his hearers to
                                        "the wildest state of enthusiasm." He was president of the
                                        Junction Railroad and the Whitewater Coal Company. His death occurred on
                                        February 1, 1859. Biographical and Genealogical History of
                                                    
                                    Wayne, Fayette
                                 , Union and Franklin
                                            Counties, Indiana (2 vols., 
                                            Chicago
                                        , 1899), I, 239-240.
                           
                              51 A small town northwest of 
                                            Connersville
                                        .
                           
                              52 Thomas Milligan is not identified as an Indiana
                                        University student.
                           
                              53 Commencement at 
                                            Miami
                                         University, 
                                 Oxford,
                                                Ohio
                              , was scheduled
                                        for June 30. See entry for June 30.
                        
                        
                        Saturday, June 19: Clear morning. Went to Vienna. Harrowed corn. Rained some in the
                                    afternoon. Read some in Macauleys History of E. Rained very heavy in the evening.
                        Sunday, June 20: Clear day. Went to church. Heard two long sermons by Dr. Heron.
                                    Spent the evening in reading writing and smoking cigars. Retired pretty early. My
                                    ink has got thick, and made a blotch or two at the first.
                        Monday, June 21: Clear and very warm day. Commenced plowing corn. —plowed
                                    all day. Had most forgotten how, but got into the hang of it after a little
                                    practice. Had a big time with a cow.
                        Tuesday, June 22: Clear and exceeding warm. Finished replanting corn. Plowed in the
                                    afternoon. Read some in Macauley.
                        Wednesday, June 23: Clear and oppressively hot. Plowed corn. Read some in Macauley.
                                    Studied some at Geometry.
                        Thursday, June 24: Very hot day plowed corn. Read some in Macauley's H.
                                    Thermometer above 90 in the shade.
                        Friday, June 25: Another very hot day. plowed. Went up to Vienna in the evening.
                                    Heard that Fred Douglas of 
                                        Rochester
                                     was to lecture in 
                                        Connersville
                                     on the 29th.54
                        
                        Saturday, June 26: Clear and very warm day. Harrowed corn till supper time. Read some
                                    in Macauley. Mary sent me three No of the N.Y. Ledger, which contained a very
                                    interesting story by E. Bennett, intitled, "Perils of the Border."
                                    Read at it till twelve o'clock.
                        Sunday, June 27: Clear, sultry and exceedingly hot. Went to Vienna to meeting. Heard
                                    a couple of sermons by Mr. Hutchinson. The road is jetting pretty dusty. Heard that
                                    Mr Hamilton was very unwell.
                        Monday, June 28: Pretty warm day. Plowed corn. Went up to Vienna in the evening.
                        Tuesday, June 29: Very warm day. Plowed all day. Rode out in the evening.
                        Wednesday, June 30: Intended starting to 
                                        Oxford
                                     to attend Commencement this morning, but owing to circumstances beyond
                                    my control, with which I was surrounded, I did not get off. Rained some in the
                                    afternoon.
                        Thursday, July 1: Sultry and warm. Shower of rain about the middle of the forenoon.
                                    Another very heavy one about the middle of the afternoon. Read some in Macauley.
                                    Read early.
                        Friday, July 2: Very warm day. Rained a shower after dinner. Plowed all day. Went up
                                    to Vienna in the evening.
                        Saturday, July 3: Another warm day. Fine weather for corn to grow. Plowed all day.
                                    Felt pretty well run down after such a weeks work. Harvest coming on. It makes me
                                    sick to think of it.
                        Sunday, July 4: Clear and pretty warm. Went to church. Heard two long sermons by Dr.
                                    Heron. Did not feel very well.
                        
                           
                              54 Frederick Douglas, orator, was born in 1817, a mulatto
                                        slave in 
                                            Maryland
                                        , but he escaped as a young man and in 1841 began to deliver
                                        lectures against slavery which attracted much attention. In 1845-1847 he made a
                                        very successful lecture tour in 
                                            England
                                        . He became a newspaper editor. Before his death in 1895 he was for
                                        five years 
                                            United States
                                         marshal for the 
                                            District of Columbia
                                        . The National Cyclopaedia of American Biography (
                                            New York
                                        , 1898-), II (1921), 309-310.
                        
                        
                        Monday, July 5: Clear pleasant day. Plowed corn. Couple of Ladies came in the evening
                                    and spent a few minuits.
                        Tuesday, July 5: Clear and pleasant. Plowed corn all day. Did not feel very well.
                                    Received a No. of the Yale Literary Magazine.55
                        
                        Wednesday, July 7: Clear warm day. Plowed all day. Committed a declamation out of
                                    Sumner's Speech.
                        Thursday, July 8: Clear and warm. Plowed all day. Committed Cicero's Oration
                                    against Verres. I also committed seventy lines in Pope's "Wife of
                                    Bath." It is a pretty good thing, but rather vulgar for this fastidious
                                    age.
                        Friday, July 9: Clear and warm. Cradled Wheat all day.56" Not very good crop, the rust having damaged it.
                        Saturday, July 10: Threatens rain. Cut some wheat, but being very unwell did not
                                    "pitch in" very brisk. Read some in Macauleys History.
                        Sunday, July 11: Rained some last night. There was a slight shower this morning. Very
                                    warm and sultry. Went to church. Dr Heron preached a sermon on the Reserection. Came
                                    home through the rain.
                        Monday, July 12: Cloudy and cool. Finished cutting wheat about noon. Went to 
                                        Connersville
                                    . Received a catalogue of I.U. forwarded by the kindness of Miss Lizzie.
                                    I also received three others, by the favor of Mr Elliott.
                        Tuesday, July 13: Cloudy and pleasant. Plowed all day. Read some in Macauleys
                                    History. In the evening a gentleman came to put in a pump in the well.
                        Wednesday, July 14: Clear and warm. Plowed all day. Nothing of importance worth
                                    noticing.
                        Thursday, July 15: Clear, warm and sultry. This is Commencement day at the Indiana U.
                                    when the senior gets to make his last effort, and leave college with his Sheepskin.
                        Friday, July 16: Clear and very warm. Plowed till noon, then went to laying the barn
                                    floor. Went up to Vienna, in the evening. Got a letter from Sol.
                        Saturday, July 17: Very warm and sultry. Worked at the barn.
                        Sunday, July 18: Clear and warm. Wind blowing. Went to Church. Heard two long sermons
                                    by Dr Heron. Robert Martin gave me a Sunday school book, and wanted me to help him
                                    with his class.
                        Monday, July 19: Clear and warm. Commenced cutting hay.
                        Tuesday, July 20: Clear and warm. Threatens rain. Hauled in hay.
                        Wednesday, July 21: Clear and warm. Mowed hay all day. John Miller and Lady, and two
                                    of his girls came in the evening. Old Johnny is a very pleasant man.
                        Thursday, July 22: Clear, sultry and warm. Hauled hay. The company left about ten
                                    A.M. Went to 
                                        Connersville
                                     in the evening. Got Dr. Dailey's Bachelur57 sent to me by S. I. Kayler.
                        
                           
                              55 An editor of the Yale Literary
                                        Magazine wrote Indiana University editors that "exchanges could
                                        not be made with inferior provincial publications."
                           
                              56 Wheat cut with a cradle was as tiring and backbreaking
                                        a job as existed on the farm. An arrangement of wooden strips caught the grain
                                        as the scythe was swung.
                           
                              57 This was Dr. Dailey's last baccalaureate for
                                        he had resigned the presidency before the next commencement in January,
                                    1859.
                        
                        
                        Friday, July 23: Cloudy and warm. Rained some last night. Plowed all day. Went up to
                                    Vienna.
                        Saturday, July 24: Clear and warm. Plowed all day. Very dry time, the corn is
                                    suffering very much much from the drouth.
                        Sunday, July 25: Clear and tolerable pleasant. Went to church. Heard two long sermons
                                    by Dr. Heron. After meeting was out, went to James Millers, and stayed all night.
                                    Seen Miss Lizzie C.58
                        
                        Monday, July 26: Clear and sultry. Got home about nine. Went to plowing.
                        Tuesday, July 27: Clear and very warm. Plowed all day.
                        Wednesday, July 28: Clear, warm and sultry. Finished plowing corn. Wrote some items
                                    for B. In the evening went into 
                                        Connersville
                                     to hear a political speech by Judge Otto.59 It was
                                    emphatically a bore. It is strange men can't talk on any thing but 
                                        Kansas
                                    .60
                        
                        Thursday, July 29: Extremely hot. Mr Hamilton came last night. He left this morning.
                                    Went over to William Milligan's Stayed and talked a while with Ag. Rained a
                                    pretty good shower. Did various things to day. Read Scotts Mac Duff.
                        Friday, July 30: Cloudy morning. Went to cut some grass, but becoming indisposed I
                                    quit. Had a very bad headacke. Lay round all day. Ag came over and spent the day.
                                    Took a buggy ride up to Vienna in the evening.
                        Saturday, July 31: Cloudy morning. Went to help Mr. Forney thrash wheat. Pretty hot
                                    day. Did not feel very well. Threatens rain.
                        Sunday, August 1: Clear and very warm day. Went to church. Heard Dr. Heron. James
                                    Miller came home with me. In the evening we went to Gray's School House, to
                                    hear Mr Hutchinson preach. Very pleasant buggy riding. Seen several fine Ladies.
                        Monday, August 2: Cloudy. Rained very heavy last night. Mary & Lames stayed
                                    till after dinner. Hauled in a load of hay. Made a box for Mary to take home some
                                    flowers. Very warm, still threatens rain.
                        Tuesday, August 3: Cloudy morning. Rained a little. Pretty warm. Pulled weeds out of
                                    the corn. Read some in Macauleys History. Did not feel very well.
                        Wednesday, August 4: Clear warm day. Pulled weeds in the corn field till 4 P.M. then
                                    rigged up the buggy and went down to James Millers. Seen Miss Lizzie C. Stayed all
                                    night.
                        Thursday, August 5: Cloudy morning. Rigged up the "buss" and in
                                    company with four ladies and Jim Miller. Started for a blackberry patch, on Garrison
                                        Creek.81 It was an awful hot day. Had a big 
                              
                                 58 Miss Lizzie C is not to be confused with the Miss
                                            Lizzie of Bloom-irsgton.
                              
                                 59 Probably William T. Otto who came to Indiana in
                                            1836 and engaged in the practice of law until 1844 when the legislature
                                            elected him judge of the second judicial circuit. He was professor of law at
                                            Indiana University from 1847 to 1852. Wylie, Indiana
                                            University, 115-116.
                              
                                 60 In the latter part of 1858 the question of
                                            statehood for 
                                                Kansas
                                             was uppermost in all political discussions.
                              
                                 61 Garrison Creek, a mill stream that rises in 
                                                Fayette County
                                            , runs southeast into Franklin, and empties into the west fork
                                            of the Whitewater, on the west side.
                           
                                     time generally. Returned to Jim's
                                    about 9 P.M., pretty near "give out." Then went home.
                        Friday, August 6: Clear day. On last evening when I got home—found the
                                    thrashers had come on and taken out all the wheat. Was not spited. Went and helped
                                    Mr Forney to thrash. In the evening, took a buggy ride up to Vienna.
                        Saturday, August 7: Another hot day. Toped out a straw stack. After dinner rigged up
                                    the buggy and took my Mamma over to John Harris's. Had a pleasant time with
                                    the ladies. Read a letter that another lady had wrote to them in which she said a
                                    baby had been born that weighed 2 lbs. Finis for this page.
                        Sunday, August 8: Clear and pretty warm. Went to church. Heard a long Sermon by the
                                    Dr. He is going to be for the next three Sabbaths. Threathens rain, it is now
                                    thundering. 9 o'clock P.M. Thermometer about 100 in the shade.
                        Monday, August 9: Warm and sultry. Rained a little. Done several things around the
                                    house.
                        Tuesday, August 10: Clear and exceedingly warm. Thermometer 96 in the shade. Went to 
                                        Connersville
                                    . Dan Rice's Show on hands62
                        
                        Wednesday, August 11: Clear and very warm. Commenced sowing wheat. It is so warm can
                                    scarcely plow among the corn. Committed part of a declamation. Read some in
                                    Macauley.
                        Thursday, August 12: Clear and some what cooler. Plowed in wheat. Read some in
                                    Mac.—Wrote some. Did not feel very well.
                        Friday, August 13: Clear and pretty warm. Plowed in wheat till noon. Done some little
                                    turns about the house. The old folks were gone. Went to the water melon patch, and
                                    devoured one of them with delight.
                        Saturday, August 14: Clear and pleasant day. Did not do much of any thing. Loafed
                                    around a little, and done some little trifles.
                        Sunday, August 15: Cloudy morning. Did not go to Church, but stayed at home all day.
                                    Read some and eat onions, and biscuit.
                        Monday, August 16: Clear and pleasant. Helped to drive some hogs to
                                    Wagoner's that we sold I. Geeg for the 3 cts a pound. Got home before
                                    dinner. After dinner rigged up the buggy and took my Mamma to John Harris. Had a big
                                    time with the gals—made arrangements for a spree.
                        Tuesday, August 17: Clear and warm. Hauled dirt for the stable. Went after a load of
                                    saw dust to the Steam mill. James Nisbet called in and stayed awhile.
                        Wednesday, August 18: Clear and warm. Cut down a tree to make boards. Very dry and
                                    warm.
                        Thursday, August 19: Clear and warm day. Split some boards. In the evening Robert
                                    McKee and his lady Mary Ann of Lafaette came. My old friend Mary Ann looks much
                                    better than when she left here.
                        Friday, August 20: Did not get up very early. Had a big time with 
                              
                                 62 The Dan Rice circus was one of the most noted
                                            traveling attractions of the pre-Civil War years.
                           
                                     Mary Ann. She is one of the most loving and
                                    friendly souls I ever seen. She left about ten o'clock. Went to Nisbetts in
                                    the afternoon.
                        Saturday, August 21: Clear and not so warm. Went to help Nisbets thrash wheat. The
                                    old folks left on a spree, to Decatur C. I expect to have a good time keeping house
                                    and squeezing gals while they are gone.
                        Sunday, August 22: Clear and cool. Did not go to church as I did not feel very well.
                                    Spent the day reading and sleeping. Retired early.
                        Monday, August 23: Clear and quite cool. Went to 
                                        Connersville
                                    . Hauled some wood. Went over to Will Milligans and stayed for supper.
                                    Had a good time with Ag.
                        Tuesday, August 24: Clear and cool. Spent the forenoon reading a long novel by Cobb
                                    Jr. Went up to Vienna after dinner and spent the afternoon. Dad and Mom got home.
                        Wednesday, August 25: Clear and pleasant. Cut some logs. Read some in a novel. A
                                    novel is a very good thing to indulge and refresh the mind when the body is wearied
                                    and the mind inactive.
                        Thursday, August 26: Cloudy and threatens rain. It is very dry and dusty. Helped
                                    erect a shed for wood. Rained some after dinner. Mr Kerr of Dunlapsville called in
                                    out of the rain. He give me several interesting items about the old place.
                        Friday, August 27: Cloudy and warm. Done some little shores. After dinner went to
                                    Vienna and then to Mr. Little's. Spent two or three hours with Miss Ellen.
                                    Started home and got caught in the rain at Will Milligans. Stopped till after
                                    supper.
                        Saturday, August 28: Raining. Cleared off about ten. Went to 
                                        Connersville
                                    . Attended the Republican Convention. Heard Speeches by Bennett of
                                        Union,63 Sam Parker, and others. Got home about dark.
                        Sunday, August 29: Cool and cloudy. Went to the Prorenata Church to meeting. Heard a
                                    sermon by Dodds. In the evening it was very cool.
                        Monday, August 30: Cloudy and very cool for the season. Plowed in wheat. Did not feel
                                    very well. Commenced using Wood's Hair tonic.
                        Tuesday, August 31: Clear and pleasant. Plowed in wheat. Committed part of the
                                    Oration of Emmett, the Irish patriot. Retired early.
                        Wednesday, September 1: Clear and pleasant. Plowed in wheat. Committed the remainder
                                    of Emmett's oration.
                        Thursday, September 2: Cloudy and warm. Hauled gravel on the road till noon. Rained a
                                    little. Plowed in some more wheat. Gassed a while on politics. Democrat County Con.
                                    met in 
                                        Connersville
                                    .
                        Friday, September 3: Wet morning. Plowed off about ten. Finished sowing wheat. Wrote
                                    some. Got a letter from my magnanimous chum. He was right side up.
                        Saturday, September 4: Clear cool and blowing. Hauled some boards 
                              
                                 63 Thomas W. Bennett was born on February 16, 1831,
                                            and was graduated from Asbury University at 
                                                Greencastle
                                             in 1854. In 1858 he was elected state senator from 
                                                Fayette
                                             and Union counties. At the outbreak of the Civil War, he
                                            enlisted and in 1864 became a brigadier-general. In 1871, President U. S.
                                            Grant appointed him governer of 
                                                Idaho
                                             Territory. A Biographical History of Eminent and
                                                Self-Made Men of the State of Indiana, I, District 6, pp.
                                        7-8.
                           
                                     and covered a small shed. Loafed round in the
                                    afternoon and didn't do much of any thing.
                        Sunday, September 5: Clear and cool. Went to church, after upsetting my stand, and
                                    spilling the ink over the floor. Did not feel very well.
                        Monday, September 6: Clear pleasant day. Cut down a tree and sawed some timber for
                                    posts. Did not feel very well, having a slight headache. Retired early.
                        Tuesday, September 7: Clear and pretty warm. Sawed and split posts. The
                                    World's Fair of 
                                        Fayette County
                                     Commences to day at 
                                        Connersville
                                    . A big time is expected.
                        Wednesday, September 8: Clear and warm. Went to the World's Fair at 
                                        Connersville
                                    . Had a pretty large time. A wonderful turn out of fine ladies with
                                    hoops. Heard a speech by Horace Greely of N.Y.64 A Grand display
                                    of fire works in the evening.
                        Thursday, September 9: Clear and warm as ever. Went back to the big fair to see the
                                    fine ladies and the sights generally. Had a fine time eating water melon with some
                                    gals of the dimpled chin race.
                        Friday, September 10: Raining. Quit about 8 o'clock. Went to the field to
                                    get my horse. Bridled him & got on, but he soon throwed me off and strained
                                    my ancle. Led him to the house—saddled him and went to Vienna. Had a big
                                    through with Sam McKee on politics. Loafed round all day.
                        Saturday, September 11: Clear and quite cool. Split and hauled some posts. Did not
                                    feel very well. Retired early.
                        Sunday, September 12: Clear and cool. Went to Church. Seen John Elliott &
                                    Rose. They came home with us in the evening. Had a good talk with my old friend
                                    Rose. She looks as well as ever.
                        Monday, September 13: Clear and pleasant. Rose & John started for home.
                                    Father and Mother went along, and left me to keep bachlors hall. Went to the Steam
                                    Mill after plank.
                        Tuesday, September 14: Clear and warm. Went to 
                                        Connersville
                                    . Got back about noon. Commenced to build a garden fence.
                        Wednesday, September 15: Clear and pretty warm and dry. Worked at the fence. Pretty
                                    dry keeping house by one's self. It is enough to make a person think of
                                    Matrimony.
                        Thursday, September 16: Rose with a slight head-ache which increased till it became
                                    very bad. Did nothing. Slept part of the day. The folks got home about dark, and I
                                    give up house keeping. Bill Laughlin called in to see me.
                        Friday, September 17: Warm and dry. Dust flying in all directions. Went to 
                                        Connersville
                                    . Started my books by express for 
                                        Bloomington
                                    . Subscribed for Telegraph Vol. 5 No. 27. Purchased some articles.
                        Saturday, September 18: Clear and warm. Built fence. Went to Vienna.
                        
                           
                              64 Horace Greeley, born on February 3, 1811, at
                                                
                                 Amherst, New Hampshire
                              , established
                                        the 
                                            New York
                                        
                                        Tribune on April 10, 1841. He was among the first editors to
                                        join the Republican party, and on February 22, 1856, attended the national
                                        organization meeting at 
                                            Pittsburgh
                                        . In 1872 he was nominated by the Democratic national convention for
                                        president. Allan Nevins, "Horace Greeley," Dictionary of American Biography (21 vols., 
                                            New York
                                        , 1943), VII, 528-534.
                        
                        
                        Sunday, September 19: Clear warm day. Went to church. Heard a sermon on the fashions
                                    of the day.65 Went to Jim Millers. Spent the evening with Miss
                                    Lizzie—eat some water-melons.
                        Monday, September 20: Started to Neff's corner. See John C. Robinson. Got to
                                    Neff's corner seen Mr Hamilton and then started home. Got home about two.
                                    Mr. Laughlin called in the evening. Jim Miller and Maria came in the evening.
                        Tuesday, September 21: About three o'clock Jim Miller and myself started for 
                                        Louisville
                                    . Got there about 8 o'clock, At ten the cars came and we went
                                    together to Indianap[olis]. I went on to 
                                        Greencastle
                                    . Seen Woodcock. Went to the exbition of the Sen. class of Asbury
                                        Univs.66
                        
                        Wednesday, September 22: Stayed at Jenes house last night. At eight started for 
                                        Bloomington
                                    . Got there at twelve. Seen Friend Elliott and several more. Called in
                                    at the Proff. In the evening went to see Miss Lizzie and spent one of the
                                    pleasantest evenings imaginable.
                        Thursday, September 23: Clear and dry. College opened this morning. Went down and got
                                    into the Sophomore Class. Read some latin. Reading Horace Satires. Going to study
                                    Trigenomety, Breairs Rhetoric
                        Friday, September 24: Rose early. Attended recitations. At night went to the Athenian
                                    Society. Had a big time.
                        Saturday, September 25: Rose early. Went to the Covenanter church67 to hear a discussion on Union. Pretty sharp debate. Went to meeting their
                                    also as their is to be a sacrament to morrow. Spent a very pleasant evening with
                                    Miss Lizzie.
                        Sunday, September 26: Went to church at Wylie Church. Sacrament was dispensed.
                                    Attended the funeral of (I forget the name). In the evening went with Miss Lizzie to
                                    church.
                        Monday, September 27: Attended college. Very dry and dusty. Passed examination.
                        Tuesday, September 28: Clear and pretty warm. Went to college. Nothing of importance
                                    going on.
                        Wednesday, September 29: Warm day. In the afternoon went with "my
                                    duck" to the 
                                        Monroe County
                                     Fair. Had a good time. In the evening went to a promenade concert which
                                    was a grand bore. Lessons minus.
                        Thursday, September 30: Went to college and recited in Mathematics. Got excused and
                                    left. Went to the fair and spent a very pleasant evening with some ladies. Studied
                                    some.
                        
                           
                              65 On another page at the back of the diary Louden
                                        recorded: "Garrison Creek Church, Sept. 19th, 1858. The old Dr is
                                        speaking on the fashions of the day, with special reference to the ladies and
                                        their 'round tires like the moon.' He did not condemn the
                                        practice, either of wearing Bloomers, Hoops, Jewelry or any other ornaments of
                                        apparel, but merely said the sin was in setting our hearts up [on]
                                        them."
                           
                              66 Indiana Asbury University founded in the late thirties
                                        became DePauw University when 
                                            Washington
                                         Charles DePauw, a staunch 
                                            New Albany
                                         Methodist, in 1881 made a will leaving what was then a large estate
                                        to the institution. William W. Sweet, Indiana Asbury-DePauw
                                            University, 1837-1937 (
                                            New York
                                        , 1937), 140.
                           
                              67 Covenanter was a term commonly applied to the Reformed
                                        Presbyterian church.
                        
                        
                        Friday, October 1: Clear and warm. Went to college. At ten o'clock W. B.
                                        Laughlin68 came down. Spent the afternoon with him. In the
                                    evening went to Society. Delivered an original.69 Came home
                                    early.
                        Saturday, October 2: Went to college. Declaimed under Prof. Wylie. In the evening
                                    went with "my bonny las" out to Mr. Cerrys. Had a good time with
                                    Miss Lu. and Mat Got home about eleven o'clock.
                        Sunday, October 3: Went to Prof. Wylies church. Pretty warm day. Went to chapel with
                                    Miss Lizzie, who is a perfect angel. Prof. Wylie lectured. Accompanied my dearest to
                                    church at night. Went to the Baptist church. Heard a very rediculous sermon.
                        Monday, October 4: Pretty warm. Rose early. Went to college. Got home at eleven.
                                    Rained some in the afternoon. Friend Elliott was very unwell. Got caught in the rain
                                    coming from the washer womans.
                        Tuesday, October 5: Cloudy and pleasant. Went to college. Rained most of the
                                    afternoon. John Blair stopped in the evening. Kindled a fire for the first time this
                                    fall. Studying hard on Trigonometry.
                        Wednesday, October 6: Went to college. Clear and pleasant day. Recited Rhetoric to Mr
                                    Given. In the evening went down to M Givens room. Got home after dark.
                        Thursday, October 7: Went to college as usual. Recited in all the departments.
                                    Recited Rhetoric to the old Dr.70 Studied out fifty lines in the
                                    Satires of Horace. Purchased a shaul.
                        Friday, October 8: Pretty cool day. Went to college. Recited in all except Rhetoric.
                                    Studied in the afternoon. Went to Society Declaimed. Was elected Secratary. Got home
                                    about eleven.
                        Saturday, October 9: Pretty cool morning. Went to college. Read a composition under
                                    Prof. Wylie. Took a walk out into the country. In the evening went to see My Dear,
                                    and stayed with her till twelve.
                        Sunday, October 10: Tolerable pleasant day. Went to church. Went to chapel. Walked
                                    home with Miss Lizzie. Commenced to rain. In the evening took Miss Lizzie out to
                                    Methodist church, where Mr Binley preached. Got home about ten.
                        Monday, October 11: Damp and drizzly day. Went to college. Prof. Kirkwood being
                                    [sick] Prof. Given heard the Mathematical department. Did not feel very well during
                                    the afternoon. Still raining at this hour, ten o'clock P.M.
                        Tuesday, October 12: Wet damp morning. Went to college. This is election day, and
                                    politics pretty high. Cleared off about noon. In the evening, in company with friend
                                    Elliott, went out to Mr McKinleys. Had a very pleasant time [with] Miss Hannah, Got
                                    home about eleven.
                        Wednesday, October 13: Went to college. Recited as usual. Very pleasant day. Prof.
                                    Ballantine told us he would be absent two day[s]. In the evening called in at Prof
                                    Woodburns for a few minuits. Heard 
                              
                                 68 William B. Laughlin from Rushville, Indiana, was a
                                            senior in 1859. Wylie, Indiana University, 423.
                              
                                 69 Participation in the programs of the literary
                                            societies was divided among declamations, orations, readings, and original
                                            essays.
                              
                                 70 The "old Dr." was President Daily
                                            who taught Rhetoric in 1858.
                           
                                     that my old ∗ Miss Bell &
                                    Bill Little had got the knot tied on the 4th. Long life, happiness and felicity to
                                    them.
                        Thursday, October 14: Clear fine day. Went to college Mr Given heard the class. Did
                                    not stay for rhetoric. Did not feel very well. Retired pretty early.
                        Friday, October 15: Went to college. Recited as usual. Stoped at Mr Givens room a
                                    short time. Studied some in the after noon. Went to Society. Wrote the minuits. Got
                                    home about one.
                        Saturday, October 16: Did not get up very early. Went to college early. This was
                                    public day. Wrote the minuits by noon. Took a ramble after dinner. In the evening
                                    went to see Miss Lizzie. Had a pleasant time.
                        Sunday, October 17: Went to Prof. Wylie's church. Went to Chapel. Did not
                                    think much of this day's lecture. In the evening took Miss Lizzie to
                                    M[issionary] meeting. Heard a good sermon.
                        Monday, October 18: Clear day and pretty warm. Went to college. Recited as usual.
                                    Threatened rain a little in the evening.
                        Tuesday, October 19: Cloudy. Went to college. Nothing new. Commenced raining in the
                                    evening. Raining very heavy at this hour, ten O'clock.
                        Wednesday, October 20: Wet morning. Went to college. Recited as usual. Studied in the
                                    afternoon.
                        Thursday, October 21: Clear and pleasant. Went to college. Did not recite in
                                    Rhetoric. Attended a called meeting of Athenian Soc. which lasted during the
                                    afternoon. Got up some protests. In the evening took my duck to the Contest between
                                    the Liter. Soc. It was a poor thing.
                        Friday, October 22: Clear and warm. Not having my lessons did not tend college. In
                                    the evening went to Soc. Debated on Lecompten Ques. The election for Spring Speakers
                                    coming off. I was chosen as one. After we got home, Messrs Elliott, Hood, Laughlin
                                    and myself went out on a Shivaree.71
                        
                        Saturday, October 23: Clear, pleasant day. Had a bad headache. Went to college and
                                    done my duty. Came home and slept till noon. After dinner got a buggy and took my
                                    duck out to Mr. Crow's. Had a fine time with Miss Lu. Got back about dark.
                                    Went to the county library and joined the Sigma Xie Fraternity.72
                        
                        Sunday, October 24: Pleasant day. Went to Church. Not feeling very well, did not
                                    attend lecture. At night took my duck to M. meeting & after we got back
                                    talked over past events.
                        Monday, October 25: Cloudy and raining some. Went to college. About ten
                                    o'clock the rain came down thick and fast. Read out my latin.
                        
                           
                              71 Charivari is a practice of serenading a newly married
                                        couple by beating tin pans and drums, blowing horns, and ringing bells. The
                                        tumult is still a common practice in rural Indiana.
                           
                              72 Louden's initiation apparently did not include
                                        the correct spelling of the fraternity name, Sigma Chi. The fraternity, founded
                                        at 
                                            Miami
                                         University in 1855, was installed at Indiana in the same year. In
                                        the beginning fraternities met either at private homes or in public rooms, such
                                        as the library. Later halls on or near the square were rented for meetings.
                                        Fraternity houses were a rather late development.
                        
                        
                        Tuesday, October 26: Still raining a little. Went to college. After dinner D. F.
                                        Smith73 came up and helped me to get out my lesson. Mr.
                                    Blair called in a while. Retired about ten.
                        Wednesday, October 27: Raining. Went to college. Recited as usual. After dinner it
                                    clouded up and the rain came down thick and fast most of the evening and is still
                                    falling ten o'clock P.M.
                        Thursday, October 28: Rose pretty early. Went to college. Very cloudy day. After
                                    dinner commenced to rain. Very damp time. Retired pretty early.
                        Friday, October 29: Rose early. Went to college. Took a walk after dinner. In the
                                    evening went to Society. Had a pretty good time. Got home about eleven.
                        Saturday, October 30: Went to chapel service. Did not stay for performance. After
                                    dinner called at Proff. in company with friend Elliott. In the evening went to a
                                    meeting of the fraternity of —.
                        Sunday, October 31: Went to church at the N.S. Presbyterian. Went to chapel. Went to
                                    prayer meeting. In the evening took Miss Lizzie to M. meeting. Cloudy day.
                        Monday, November 1: Rose pretty early. Went to college. Commenced the study of
                                    Surveying. Commenced to rain after dinner and continued all evening. Read a piece,
                                    about Dr Daily, got up by Murphy.
                        Tuesday, November 2: Still raining.
                        November 3, 4, and 5 [No entries.]
                        Saturday, November 6: Cloudy day. Raining. Went to public performance. Went to the
                                    court house to hear Hughes plead.74 In the evening went to see
                                    Miss Lizzie. Had a fine time.
                        Sunday, November 7: Cloudy and cool. Went to church. Went to chapel. In the evening
                                    it was raining and I did not go to Church.
                        Monday, November 8: Still cloudy and raining some, as it has been doing for the last
                                    ten days. Went to college.
                        Tuesday, November 9: Cloudy day. Went to college. Got an introduction to Miss
                                    Gourley. In the evening bid her and Mrs. McQuisten of 
                                        Ohio
                                     Good bye, as they were starting home.
                        Wednesday, November 10: Cloudy and cool. Tryed to Snow some. Went to college. Did not
                                    recite in rhetoric. In the evening, in company with Mr Elliott, went out to Mr.
                                    Mackinleys. Had a pretty good time. Got into a bur patch coming home.
                        Thursday, November 11: Cloudy and pretty cool. Attended college. Played a game of
                                    ball after dinner, with Friends Laughlin, Hodd and Elliott. Felt pretty sleepy in
                                    the after noon.
                        Friday, November 12: Cloudy and cool. Went to college. Got excused from Languages and
                                    Rhetoric. Came home and wrote a Fictitious narative. Went to Society. Rained most of
                                    the night.
                        
                           
                              73 Probably Dudley F. Smith from 
                                            Stanford
                                         who was a member of the class of 1861. Ibid.,
                                        450.
                           
                              74 James Hughes, congressman, jurist, and professor of
                                        law, was born November 24, 1823, at 
                                 Homestead, Maryland
                              . In 1859 he was appointed judge of the 
                                            United States
                                         Court of Claims. From 1857 to 1860 he served as a member of the
                                        Indiana University Board of Trustees. Myers, Trustees and Officers
                                            of Indiana University, 233-236.
                        
                        
                        Saturday, November 13: Cloudy and cold. Went to college and declaimed in Prof.
                                    Wylie's department. In the afternoon went to college to see about
                                    organizing a "Society of Religious Inquiry. Was appointed on a com. to
                                    draft a constitution. Went to S.
                        Sunday, November 14: Cloudy and cool. Went to church. In the afternoon took Miss
                                    Lizzie to chapel. At night took her to O.S.P. church. Commenced to snow about dark.
                        Monday, November 15: Cold morning. Pretty good snow on the ground. Very cold day.
                                    Went to college. Cleared off in the evening and froze pretty hard.
                        Tuesday, November 16: Cold morning. First clear day for three weeks. Went to college.
                                    In the afternoon went with some more of the Sophs, to Prof. Woodburn survey.
                        Wednesday, November 17: Clear morning. Very cold. Went to college. In the afternoon
                                    went to college to make some experiments with the Theodolite.75
                                    In the evening went to see my "duck". Had a fine time.
                        Thursday, November 18: Pleasant day. Went to college. Studied in the afternoon.
                        Friday, November 19: Pleasant day. Clear. Went to college. At eleven o'clock
                                    the regular Sopomore class adjourned, without reciting rhetoric. In the evening went
                                    to Society. Did not get home till 1 o'clock.
                        Saturday, November 20: Cloudy and chilly. Commenced snowing about nine A.M. Went to
                                    college. Helped to make a constitution for a new Society. In the evening went to see
                                    my "duck."
                        Sunday, November 21: Cool morning. Did not rise very early. Did not go to church.
                                    Snow about 4 inches deep. Went to chapel. In the evening took Miss Lizzie to
                                    meeting.
                        Monday, November 22: Rose early. Went to college. Recited as usual. Snowed all day.
                                    Snow about half-foot deep. Retired at half past ten.
                        Tuesday, November 23: Rose early. Went to college recited and returned home. Thawed
                                    some during the evening.
                        Wednesday, November 24: Went to college. Recited as usual. The Dr. tried to bore the
                                    Rhetoric class. In the evening went to see Miss Lizzie. Got home about twelve.
                        Thursday, November 25: No. college today it being appointed as a thanksgiving day by
                                    the Gov. Went to college half-past ten to hear a sermon by Mr. Gillet. In the
                                    afternoon went and fixed up the hall for the exhibition. At night took Miss Lizzie
                                    to it. Had a pretty good exhibition.
                        Friday, November 26: Went to college. Recited as usual. In the evening went to
                                    Society. Had a pretty exciting time over a paper sent in by the Philos. We laid it
                                    on the table. Friend Springer called in." Got home about twelve.
                        
                           
                              75 An instrument for measuring horizontal and, usually,
                                        vertical angles. This was one of the few physical instruments owned by the
                                        University in 1858.
                           
                              76 William M. Springer, a native of 
                                            Sullivan County
                                        , Indiana, was born on May 30, 1836. He became very prominent in
                                        political circles in the neighboring state of 
                                            Illinois
                                        . Wylie, Indiana University, 222.
                        
                        
                        Saturday, November 27: Rose with a pretty bad head-ache. It being public day, went to
                                    college. At ten o'clock attended a meeting to adopt a constitution for a
                                    religious Society. Not getting the time to suit me I left. Was very sick during the
                                    afternoon. Did not eat any thing all day. Rained all day.
                        Sunday, November 28: Was still unwell. Did not eat any breakfast. Was in bed most of
                                    the day. Felt a little better in the evening. Cloudy and chilly.
                        Monday, November 29: Clear day. Did not go to college, on account of being very
                                    unwell. In the afternoon went to the depot to see friend Edgar start home. Had a
                                    dish of oysters with friend Hood.
                        Tuesday, November 30: Clear and cool. Went to college. Studied some during the
                                    evening. At night went to see Miss Lizzie. Had a very pleasant time.
                        Wednesday, December 1: Cloudy and chilly. Went to college. Did not recite Rhetoric,
                                    as the Dr. was gone. Report says he is gone to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     to try to move the college up there. Did not feel like studying.
                        Thursday, December 2: Cloudy and cool. Went to college. The Dr. not back yet. Was
                                    very unwel all day.
                        Friday, December 3: Cloudy and misting. Did not attend college, on account of bad
                                    health. In the afternoon went to a meeting of the Erolathaian Society. Raining a
                                    little. At night went to Athenian. Declaimed. Caught a bad cold. Got home at one.
                        Saturday, December 4: Raining. Did not go to college. In the afternoon went and got
                                    some cherry, poplar, & dog-wood bark to make bitters. Miss Rhoda &
                                    Miss Service calling in, in the evening spent the afternoon with them. At night went
                                    to see my "duck". Had a pleasant time. Rained very heavy.
                        Sunday, December 5: Cleared off this morning. Went to Prof. Wylies church. Being
                                    unwel in the afternoon, stayed in my room. Had something like a chill in the
                                    evening.
                        Monday, December 6: Very pleasant morning. Went to college, though very unwel. Got a
                                    bottle of "old Bourbon" and made up my bitters. Was very sick at
                                    night.
                        Tuesday, December 7: Cool and clear morning. Clouded up about noon. Did not attend
                                    college. In the afternoon went up to town and subscribed for Harpers Magazine and
                                    the 
                                        New York
                                     Tribune. At night had a return of the chills. Did not study any.
                                    Retired early.
                        Wednesday, December 8: Cold and cloudy. Did not go to college. Was not very well, in
                                    bodily health, and had very bad cold. Studied a little in the afternoon.
                        Thursday, December 9: Cold. Went to college. Come pretty near giving out before I got
                                    back.
                        Friday, December 10: Clear and pleasant. Went to college. Did not stay for Rhetoric
                                    on account of having a very bad cold. Did not go to Society. Read Shakespeare
                                    "Merry Wives of Windsor."
                        Saturday, December 11: Clear in the morning. Went to college. Clouded up in the
                                    afternoon. At night went to a meeting of the S.—Eat a dish of oysters
                                    with friend Hood.
                        
                        Sunday, December 12: Cloudy and misting a little. Went to Prof. Wylies church. Went
                                    to chapel. Went to prayer meeting. Had a remark made about me going, instead of
                                    being persuaded away by a companion. At night went to the O.S.P. church. Retired
                                    early.
                        Monday, December 13: Cloudy and raining a little. Cleared off about ten. Went to
                                    college. Did not recite languages. Went to the Republican office and got a paper.
                                    Retired pretty early.
                        Tuesday, December 14: Raining very heavy. Went to college through the rain. Recited
                                    as usual. Studied in the afternoon. At night went to see my
                                    "duck". Had a good time.
                        Wednesday, December 15: Cloudy. Went to college. Tryed to snow. Recited as usual.
                                    Cleared off in the evening. Had a very bad cough. Retired pretty early.
                        Thursday, December 16: Clear and cool. Went to college. Recited as usual. Attended a
                                    called meeting of the Sophomore class at half-past eleven. Spent the afternoon as
                                    usual.
                        Friday, December 17: Clear and pleasant. Went to college. The last day of recitation.
                                    In the afternoon went to a meeting of the Erolethian Society. At night went to the
                                    Athenian. Mr. Hawhee and myself called in at Proff. W. in the afternoon.
                        Saturday, December 18: Clear morning. Went to college. Public day. After exercises
                                    were over attended a meeting of the Sophomore class for the purpose of electing
                                    speakers for their exhibition at the opening of the summer term. I was elected as
                                    one of the number. Loafed in the afternoon. At night went to see my
                                    "duck".
                        Sunday, December 19: Cloudy and raining. Went in company with friend Elliott
                                    & Hood to Proff. Wylies church. Slept part of the afternoon. Did not go out
                                    at night on account of the rain.
                        Monday, December 20: Rose pretty early. Still raining. Went to college. Came home
                                    after prayers. Went to Mr Riley's room. At three o'clock went to
                                    be examined on rhetoric. Got off fine. At night went to see my
                                    "duck."
                        Tuesday, December 21: Still raining. Went to chapel. Went to Robisons room. At eleven
                                    o'clock attended a called meeting of the Sophomore class. Had a pretty high
                                    time generally. At two went to be examined on languages. At night went to Mr
                                    Lemon's room.77 Cleared off.
                        Wednesday, December 22: Pleasant day. Was not very well. Studied some little but not
                                    much.
                        Thursday, December 23: Clear pleasant morning. Was very unwell. Went to college. Was
                                    examined on Trigonometry. Spent the afternoon running round. Had a meeting of the
                                    Sop. class at ten. Handed in my resignation as speaker.
                        Friday, December 24: Clear, pleasant morning. Went to chapel to see the session wind
                                    up. Appointed a meeting of the Athenians boys in Hansons room to night to see about
                                    a party. Went with friend Elliott to Mr Henley's. Met at night &
                                    appointed a party for 30th. Com. Louden, Lemon, Hood.
                        
                           
                              77 Probably Alexander D. Lemon who was a native of 
                                            Lawrence County
                                        , Indiana. Ibid., 222.
                        
                        
                        Saturday, December 25: Clear pleasant day. Read some and loafed some. Spent the day
                                    numerous ways. At night went to see Miss Lizzie.
                        Sunday, December 26: Raining very heavy. Did not attend church. In the evening took a
                                    long walk with John Hood. At night went with my "duck" to N.S.P.
                                    church.
                        Monday, December 27: Raining a little. After dinner went down town to see Homer Lemon
                                    about the party. Read some in Prescotts History of Ferdinad & Isabelle.
                        Tuesday, December 28: Spent the day running round town. Pleasant weather for the time
                                    of the year. At night went to see my "duck". Had a very pleasant
                                    time.
                        Wednesday, December 29: Cloudy. After dinner walked up the railroad with friend Hood
                                    to see freight train that had smashed up, about five miles up. Road back on the
                                    express.
                        Thursday, December 30: Raining. Went down after dinner to purcahse refreshments for
                                    the party in the Athenian Hall. Bought a lot of Nuts & Candies. In the
                                    evening took Miss Lizzie down. Very muddy. Pretty large crowd. Had a good time
                                    generally. Got home about two.
                        Friday, December 31: Went to college to clean out the Hall. Got it done about twelve.
                                    Slept in the after noon. After supper went to Mr. Lemons. Then went to Mr.
                                    Hawhee's room. Spent some time there, collecting a crowd, and making out a
                                    programme for a grand serenade. A little after nine, Messrs Hanson,78 Lemon, Hawee, Hood, Alexander79 Myres and myself, all
                                    started out with two flutes, and went regularly round town. At Mr
                                        Isenhour's80 we had the good fortune to have some
                                    cake passed out to us, which we eat with thanks to the fair donors. About one
                                    o'clock we broke up, having passed from the year eighteen hundrd &
                                    fifty eight to that of nine.
                        
                           
                              78 Levi Hanson, a native of Harrodsburg, Indiana, and a
                                        member of the class of 1859. Ibid., 411.
                           
                              70 Probably John D. Alexander of 
                                            Bloomington
                                         who was a member of Louden's class. Ibid., 226.
                           
                              80 John R. Isenhower was born on May 6,1883, near
                                        Ellettsville. He received his degree in law in 1859. On September 29, 1863, he
                                        married Sallie L. Lester of 
                                            Bloomfield
                                        .
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Architecture of the Old Northwest Territory. By Rexford Newcomb. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1950, pp. xvii, 176. 49 figures and 96 plates, and index. $20.00.)
            This work is the result of some thirty years of study and observation on the architectural expression
                    of the people who settled and built the Middle West. It is a connected story of architectural
                    development in the Old Northwest to approximately the period of the Civil War. Professor Newcomb of
                    the College of Fine and Applied Arts of the University of 
                        Illinois
                     and Fellow of the American Institute of Architects has studied the records well, both
                    the material records—that is, the buildings which remain—and the documentary
                    material on the subject.
            Early chapters deal with the geographic setting and the people from Indian days to the end of the
                    pioneer period. A brief chapter is devoted to French colonial architecture manifested largely in
                    stockades, forts, residences, and churches. There is a chapter on American architectural
                    precedents— Colonial, Federal, Classical Revival, and on pioneer architectural
                    types—forts, log houses, schools, churches. The Southern influence—bricks,
                    wide central halls, classical frontal porticoes, often two-story galleries—is illustrated
                    by many examples in the southern tier of states in the Old Northwest. The Georgian and Federal
                    types, brought in largely by the 
                        New England
                    -
                        New York
                     people, and prevailing in the areas settled by them, are also treated. Five chapters
                    are devoted to the Classic Revival as it came into the five states, and one chapter is devoted to
                    the Gothic Revival and its spread westward. One chapter treats of the communal buildings of Shakers,
                    Rappites, Zoarites, Mormons, etc. There is also a glossary of architectural terms used in the text.
            Naturally the buildings discussed and illustrated are the residences of the pioneer aristocracy,
                    churches, public buildings, and the like. The reviewer would have liked at least a brief treatment
                    of the typical homes and business buildings of the people of the region—people who lived
                    in neither log houses nor the more pretentious architectural forms. A few cuts or plates from the
                    more than 300 color drawings of the draftsman-artist Lefevre Cranstone, who was interested in
                    architecture above all things—everything from pigsties to  cathedrals and government buildings—certainly would not have
                    detracted from the book. But perhaps the most typical of Midwest buildings were not worth
                    consideration from an architectural viewpoint.
            The chapters which deal primarily with historical backgrounds contain numerous minor errors as do
                    several of the maps which delineate the evolution of the state boundaries, notably those on page 58.
                    The Civil War was not "the War between the States," and historians of either the 
                        United States
                     or the Old Northwest do not "usually indulge [in] long-drawn-out records of
                    battles" (xvii). Typical of the errors is the statement, page 2, that the Old Northwest
                    "was an unbroken sea of trees." Coming from a citizen of 
                        Illinois
                     this statement sounds particularly interesting, for so scarce were building materials
                    in northern 
                        Illinois
                     in the pre-railroad era that pine lumber was even brought in from the East and sold at
                    from $60 to $90 per thousand feet. The settlers were advised, if feasible, to
                    bring glazed windowframes, doors, and interior finishing materials with them or purchase same at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     or 
                        Cincinnati
                    ; a few houses were even prefabricated at these points and shipped around to 
                        Wisconsin
                     Territory. The most glaring error is in the title of the book rather than the text; it
                    is not proper to speak of the Northwest Territory in the French period before there was any
                    Northwest Territory, or after 1803 when the Northwest Territory ceased to exist. In the text the
                    region is properly referred to in most instances as the states "of the Old
                    Northwest."
            The chief value of this work, as the reviewer sees it, lies in the fact that the reader is
                    introduced, type by type, state by state, to the architectural heritage of the region. Here are
                    quickly available brief word sketches of the history and architecture of hundreds of
                    buildings—and of the architects, if any; few of importance have been omitted. Numerous
                    sketches and cuts illustrate the text and 96 full-page plates assembled in the rear supplement it.
                    Not only should this book be available to the serious student of the history and culture of the
                    region but it should be available to the unnumbered thousands of persons who have a love for and a
                    general interest in some phase of the history of the Old Northwest—to antique collectors,
                    to the short-trip tourist who likes to know something about what he
                    sees—"There's an old timer; I wonder when it was built and who lived
                    there"—and to high school students. Each and  every
                    one would find something of interest—and close to home at that. (The reviewer, for
                    instance, was interested to learn that a mausoleum-like Greek structure which he passed thousands of
                    times as a schoolboy was an early showplace residence —none of his teachers ever
                    mentioned that building—and that a farmhouse where his wife played as a girl was a
                    typical Greek Revival of the 1840's. Would that there were some way of putting books such
                    as this in the hands of those who need them most.
            The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press has done a good job of bookmaking in these expensive times. The book is printed
                    on a 9x11-inch page, double column text; paper, type, binding, end maps, and plates are all well
                    handled.
            Indiana University R. Carlyle Buley
         
         
            
               A Friendly Mission: John Candler's Letters from America, 1853-1854.
                    Edited by Gayle Thornbrough. Volume XVI, Number 1, Indiana Historical Society Publications. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1951, pp. 134. Index. $1.00.)
            "Having performed our duty … in this sad dark province, we now leave 
                        Louisiana
                     with much relief of mind, and go on to encounter fresh trials in other
                    quarters." With these words John Candler described the conclusion of the first phase of a
                    remarkable abolitionist invasion of the Old South.
            In September, 1853, Candler, Josiah and William Foster, and William Holmes brought to America from
                    the 
                        London
                     Yearly Meeting of the Society of Friends, a lengthy document urging the abolition of
                    slavery wherever it might be found. The present volume recounts the trials and tribulations of the
                    mission as it journeyed through twenty-six states and presented its memorial to twenty-three
                    governors and to the President of the 
                        United States
                    . At a time when abolitionists were anathema in the South, the four English Quakers
                    called upon the Lord to "help and preserve us," and carried their message to the
                    executive officers of all the southern states except 
                  Texas, Arkansas
               , and 
                        Florida
                    .
            From beginning to end John Candler faithfully wrote to his wife—"My Beloved
                    Maria"—the series of letters which Miss Thornbrough has edited from a notebook owned by
                    the  Indiana Historical Society and collated with the originals
                    at Haverford College library. Candler was a widely traveled man who had previously visited the 
                        United States
                    , Portugal, 
                        Brazil
                    , and the West Indies on similar missions. His eye for detail, both geographic and
                    social, was keen even if jaundiced by an ardent missionary fever. The careful minute descriptions of
                    life and travel in the midwestern and southern sections of the 
                        United States
                     form the most interesting portions of the collection. An estimated ten thousand miles
                    of travel in every type of conveyance from Mississippi river boats to 
                        New England
                     sleighs gave Candler ample opportunity to test American transportation and to pass a
                    happily restrained judgment upon it. Braving prairie fires in 
                        Illinois
                     and winter floods in 
                        Tennessee
                     the travelers gained a unique purview of almost every part of the country.
            The mission itself, particularly its reception by the governors of the various states, seems of
                    secondary importance. As might well be expected, the "Friendly mission" came face
                    to face with politicians like Governor Bigler of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     who greeted it as disturbing to the peace, rude fellows Price of 
                        Missouri
                     who seemed to threaten bodily harm, and "the Christian Governor"
                    Henry W. Collier of 
                        Alabama
                     whose sincere concern over slavery was in sharp contrast to the "sad
                    sights" exhibited in the Cradle of the Confederacy. Although Candler constantly feared for
                    the personal safety of the mission, he and his fellows were uniformly better received by the
                    governors of the deep South than by any set of officials other than the occasional staunch
                    abolitionists of the North.
            These letters will also prove of interest to the student of American Quakerism for their description
                    of backwoods meetings and careful listing of Friends in all parts of the country. Such material
                    forms a considerable portion of the text, thanks to the widespread earlier American contacts of
                    Candler and his companions.
            As notes and explanatory material have been reduced to a minimum and Miss Thornbrough's
                    twelve-page Introduction includes the four-page Memorial, the letters must stand upon their own
                    merit for the general reader. Candler's style is clear and his matter interesting. The text
                    is unmarred by typographical errors but a few peculiarities of spelling have been perhaps
                    unnecessarily retained. The over-all value of the collection might have been enhanced by some
                    elucidation of  politics in the nation and the states, or by
                    reference to the reception of the mission in the public press—a matter which concerned
                    Candler himself more than once. Such ommissions detract little however, for as Candler wrote from 
                        Richmond
                    , "We are here in the midst of … a slavery loving people, and feel
                    the necessity of being very cautious as to what we say… ." The mission had
                    slight political significance and the heart of the letters lies in descriptive passages like that
                    which will appeal to every Hoosier in which Candler rejoices over a sumptuous rural breakfast topped
                    by "a flowing jug of sweet cider unfermented—an excellent drink, and to a
                    thirsty man, delicious."
            
               
                        Alabama
                     Polytechnic Institute Robert R. Rea
         
         
            
               Diplomacy and Indian Gifts: Anglo-French Rivalry Along the 
                            Ohio
                         and Northwest Frontiers, 1748-1763. By Wilbur R. Jacobs.
                            (
                  Stanford, California
               : 
                        Stanford
                     University Press, 1950, pp. 208. End maps, bibliography, and index. $5.00.)
            No one who has read widely in American records of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries has failed
                    to run across many allusions to the Indians' custom of giving and receiving presents as a
                    fundamental part of their culture. To understand their point of view and act accordingly was the key
                    to success in dealing with Indians. This book is essentially, therefore, a psychological
                    interpretation of French and English attempts to win Indians to their side or to keep the Indians
                    from being lured to the rival side, in the struggle for conquest of the continent. In that contest
                    for empire the English emerged as victors largely because they had more and better presents to
                    bestow on the natives, used them well until 1760, and succeeded to a very considerable extent in
                    keeping the French from getting and distributing the presents they attempted to give to the Indians.
                    After 1760 the victors became niggardly in giving presents, and this parsimony was in no small
                    degree the cause of Pontiac's uprising.
            In a volume of superior manufacture and fine editorial work, the author has contributed sound
                    scholarship, wide reading in both manuscript and printed sources, and clarity of expression. Though
                    the center of attention is presents,—what  they were
                    and how utilized,—details of personalities and institutions are so rich that a reader
                    cannot fail to learn a large part of American colonial history, both French and English, in reading
                    the book. It would be interesting now to have the author continue his study into the decades beyond
                    1763; report on Robert Rogers' use of presents, the decline of present-giving as Americans
                    took over Indian affairs on the frontier and the relation of presents, or lack of them, to the War
                    of 1812; and pass judgment on the great fur-trading companies in their relation to the "old
                    Indian custom."
            
               
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society Grace Lee Nute
         
         
            
               Charles Sumner, An Essay By Carl Schurz. Edited by Arthur Reed Hogue. (
                        Urbana
                    : The University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1951, pp. 152. Appendix, index, notes, frontispiece portrait of Charles Sumner.
                    $2.50.)
            In 1894 twenty years after Sumner's death, Carl Schurz started a biography of his late
                    friend. He produced the partial first draft and rough notes for an essay and later started a second
                    draft which he brought down only to 1861. This second draft has long been in the Library of Congress
                    but the first seemed lost. A few years ago the editor discovered a sizeable collection of Schurz
                    papers in private hands, among them was the lost first draft.
            The essay under review is an editorial arrangement of the two drafts to make as unified a work as
                    possible. The second draft with a few slight changes has been printed and joined to it are the
                    portions of the first draft and notes dealing with Sumner's career after 1861. An
                    informative introduction relates the story of the enterprise.
            Schurz was by temperament and political principles sympathetic with Sumner. Both were reformers of
                    the anti-slavery school and their attitudes toward President Lincoln and Johnson were similar. Both
                    urged Lincoln to free the slaves and both felt Johnson was endangering the Negroes' rights.
                    This same sympathy did not equip Schurz too well to understand some of Sumner's foibles,
                    though all things considered he does remarkably well.
            Sumner emerges as a complex figure, a combination of a genius and a pedant who in turn could dazzle
                    or bore a listener.  He lacked humor or sensitivity and was
                    extremely vain, yet he was stirred by a desire to improve the lot of mankind and courageous in
                    seeking this end. Despite his imposing physique he was a prey to nervous illness and the beating he
                    got from Preston Brooks probably contributed to his nervous instability. He made loyal friends and
                    bitter enemies. How he succeeded in the former no one seems to make clear. For when he leaves the
                    pens of Schurz and his other biographers he seems always a most unpleasant person, admire his
                    principles and his courage as one must.
            The editor has done a careful and painstaking job but he was limited by Schurz' limitations
                    and by the unfinished state of the work. The value of the essay is the fact that Schurz knew Sumner
                    well and could thus give his work a high degree of validity.
            University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Roy F. Nichols
         
         
            
               Federal Records of World War II. Edited by Philip M. Hamer. Vols. I, II. (
                        Washington
                    : The National Archives, 1950. Civilian Agencies, Vol. I: pp. xii,
                    1073; Military Agencies, Vol. II: pp. iii, 1061. Index. $2.50 per
                    volume.)
            The most impressive statistic that has come my way in the course of studying the administrative
                    aspects of World War II appeared in a newspaper story which stated that the records created by the
                    federal war agencies alone during the years of conflict would fill a ditch ten feet wide, ten feet
                    deep, and thirty-seven miles long. Fortunately, not all of the records were actually deposited in
                    such a receptacle, but unfortunately they are not all now as accessible as they might have been even
                    in the hypothetical ditch. The fact, to which anyone with the slightest experience in the use of
                    these records can fervently testify, is that the imaginary ditch becomes transcontinental miles of
                    footwork and an incredible variety of depositories when translated into actual research problems.
                    The situation has improved rapidly in recent years with the constant flow of records into the
                    National Archives, but it still remains confusing. The greatest element of confusion, until the
                    publication of the two volumes cited above, was the absence of any sort of guide to this wilderness
                    of paper. Even from the home base of 
                        Washington
                    , navigation remained a trial and error process sans chart or compass.
            The National Archives staff has been concerned with this  problem
                    since the end of the war and, within the limits of a narrow budget, has been steadily creating order
                    out of chaos. Federal Records of World War II is the ultimate victory in this
                    offensive—a complete guide to the present whereabouts of federal wartime records. The two
                    fat volumes, one devoted to civilian and the other to military agencies, cover not only the
                    completed bodies of records left behind by such strictly wartime entities as the Office of Price
                    Administration and the Combined Chiefs of Staff, but the continuing series of documents created by
                    Congress, the federal courts, the regular administrative offices and the military departments during
                    the war years. Even agencies as apparently remote from war as the 
                        United States
                     Board on Geographical Names are listed. These volumes are therefore not only a guide to
                    wartime records but to the repositories of contemporary federal records in general.
            The records of 3,057 civilian and military agencies are located by these volumes. Brief histories of
                    each agency with special emphasis on relationships to other agencies precede the records
                    information. Bibliographical notes, citing pertinent books and periodical materials already in
                    print, are appended to nearly every paragraph. A very thorough subject index (covering 219 pages) is
                    furnished. The advantages of this elaborate apparatus of research should be obvious. Let us assume
                    that a student in Indiana wishes to begin a study of "The Role of the War Dog in World War
                    II." Sitting down in any library with these two volumes he can discover by reference to the
                    subject index that he should consult the records of three branches of the Quartermaster Corps and
                    the Veterinary Department of the Army Medical Corps for his source material. The descriptions of the
                    functions of these agencies may suggest connections with other governmental departments which might
                    be followed up. Anything important which had already been written upon his subject would appear in
                    the bibliographies. Finally, these books will reveal that nearly all of the records which our
                    researcher will want to see are deposited in the 
                        Kansas City
                     Records Center, AGO. This information might prevent a fruitless journey of six hundred
                    miles in the wrong direction. If Federal Records of World War II also indicated
                    which of these records for security reasons are closed to public inspection it might save our hero
                    an equally profitless expedition in the opposite direction. Unfortunately, this information would be
                    far too complex and too ephemeral to include in anything but a detailed catalogue.
            
            It might be added that these volumes under review are not such a catalogue—they are merely
                    signposts pointing to the large depositories of federal documents. Detailed inventories of many of
                    these records, particularly of those already transferred to the National Archives, do exist, at
                    least in typescript, and they will carry the researcher with confidence and accuracy to his final
                    goal.
            In spite of minor faults, (the fact that much of the data, representing as it does the situation as
                    of 1949, was obsolete before it appeared in print—the references in the index to entry
                    rather than page numbers—a tendency toward somewhat ambiguous generalization in the
                    descriptions of records) these volumes add immeasurably to the debt which librarians, historians,
                    government officials, and scholars in all fields owe to the staff of the National Archives.
            Indiana University Lynn W. Turner
         
         
            
               The Army Air Forces in World War II. Edited by Wesley Frank Craven and James Lea
                    Cate. Volume IV, The Pacific: Guadalcanal to Saipan, August 1942 to July 1944. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1950, pp. xxxii, 825. Illustrations, maps, tables, glossary, and index.
                    $6.00.)
            Following their surprise attack at 
                        Pearl Harbor
                     the Japanese rapidly thrust outward from the home islands. Global planning-board
                    strategy of the Allies called for major concentration and emphasis against the European efforts of
                    the 
                        Rome
                    -Berlin-Tokyo axis. The seriousness of the Japanese advance was brought home to the
                    Allied high commands, however, as their forces were constantly defeated and forced to retreat in the
                    Asiatic-Pacific theater. Not only were such prizes as the Netherlands East Indies, the
                            
                  Philippines, Burma
               ,
                    and Singapore in enemy control, but 
                  China, Australia
               , and 
                        New Zealand
                     were in imminent danger.
            In mid-1942 Japanese forces established themselves in 
                        New Guinea
                     and the 
                        Solomon Islands
                    . The present volume is concerned with the story of the Pacific war from this twin
                    threat to the Marianas campaign which set the stage for the Twentieth Air Force and its B-29
                    offensive on industrial 
                        Japan
                    .
            As in Europe, the air forces in the Asiatic-Pacific theater were engaged in a wide variety of
                    activities. Reconnaissance,  supply, maintenance, softening of
                    islands marked for assault, continued neutralization of islands which were by-passed, direct support
                    of ground troops, interference with the enemy's air and naval counter-attacks, antishipping
                    strikes, troop transport, reduction of enemy air power, and successive elimination or capture of
                    Japanese positions partially tell the story of the multitudinous activities of the air arm. The
                    imbalance between Japanese and Allied air forces was gradually reversed and preponderant air
                    superiority belonged to the latter by mid-1944.
            If the enemy were to be halted short of a point where he could break the Allied life-line between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Australia
                    , Guadalcanal Island of the Solomon group offered the last possible opportunity. More
                    than this, global strategy depended on stopping the Japanese offensive. Allied commitment in the
                    Pacific, nevertheless, was to entail "no more than the maintenance of constant pressure on
                    the Japanese foe and retention of the initiative in operations designed to win positions from which
                    a full-scale offensive might be launched immediately after the defeat of 
                        Germany
                    " (p. 131).
            Progress made in evicting the enemy was over " a long and painful road" (p. 204).
                    The battle for Guadalcanal; the victory in the Bismarck Sea action which General MacArthur described
                    after the war as "the decisive aerial engagement" in his theater of operations (p.
                    146); the successful assault and capture of Bougainville, the largest island in the Solomons; and
                    the acquisition of strategic atolls and islands in the Gilbert and Marshall groups prepared the way
                    for destruction of the center of activities at Rabaul, the "keystone of the Bismarck
                    Archipelago." Rather than a costly assault, attainment of air superiority made it possible
                    to effectively neutralize by air attack and then by-pass this long-feared center of enemy power.
            Harry L. Coles' account of the north Pacific campaign clears up the popular misconceptions
                    about the war in that theater. The crucial area was the Aleutian chain of islands, not the mainland
                    of Alaska. Further, the Japanese as well as the American objective in that area was essentially
                    defensive in nature. After a dramatic beginning at Dutch Harbor, activities in that theater tapered
                    off into anticlimax. In the last analysis, "perhaps it was the weather … that
                    relegated the Alaska-Aleutians area to the place of a relatively inactive theater" (p.
                    363).
            
            The capture of Singapore by the enemy in the early stages of the war and his conquest of 
                        Burma
                    , endangered 
                        India
                     on the east and virtually reduced 
                        China
                     to a state of siege. The 
                        China
                    -
                        Burma
                    -
                        India
                     theater of operations, although of recognized political and military significance to
                    the Allied cause, was subordinated to the accomplishment of more immediate objectives both in Europe
                    and the Pacific. Air power in the 
                        Burma
                     campaign was certainly the deciding factor in Allied success. Renewed activities of the
                    Japanese were to prove 
                        China
                     weak in spite of efforts of the Allies to the contrary.
            The Pacific goal of the war was to deliver a knockout blow to the Japanese homeland. Although
                    competing strategies of the various theater commanders and chiefs of staff planners seemed at times
                    to be irreconcilable, progress was made. With the seizure of the Admiralty Islands north of 
                        New Guinea
                    , the Hollandia area in Netherlands 
                        New Guinea
                    , and other important bases on the northern coast of 
                        New Guinea
                    , initiative was wrested from the enemy. The capture of the Marianas (Saipan, Tinian,
                    and 
                        Guam
                    ) marked the end of one phase of the Pacific war. These islands were to become great
                    bases from which B-29's would bombard the Japanese homeland.
            Although, generally, the present volume measures favorable with the previous ones in The
                        Army Air Forces in World War II series in uniformity of style and objectivity of
                    presentation, there are differences worthy of note. There is a noticeable change of style in the
                    chapter on "The Gilberts and Marshalls." In describing the war in the Solomons and 
                        New Guinea
                     areas and vicinity, Richard L. Watson and Kramer J. Rohfleisch give one of the most
                    readable and comprehensible accounts yet to appear in the series. On the other hand the discussion
                    of "The Pattern of 
                        India
                    -
                        Burma
                     Operations, 1943" is one of the most difficult to follow. In the account
                    entitled "Rabaul and Cape Gloucester," the reader easily confuses the description
                    of the Japanese units with American units.
            As a whole the maps in the present volume are of great improvement and more utility, but in some
                    portions of the text one is easily lost because of a lack or inadequacy of the maps. It is hoped
                    that the future numbers in the series will continue the trend of more useful maps. The employment of
                    symbols has been reduced to a commendable minimum.
            The 
                        Ohio
                     State University Dwight L. Smith
         
         
         
            
               Napoleon Bonaparte Broward, 
                            Florida
                        's Fighting Democrat. By Samuel Proctor. (
                        Gainesville
                    : University of 
                        Florida
                     Press, 1950, pp. xiii, 400. Illustrations, bibliography, and index. $5.00.)
            At the turn of the 20th century, the entire 
                        United States
                     was steamed up for a battle royal against monopolies and exploitations by trusts and
                    corporations. In 
                        Florida
                     this struggle for the people's rights had as its leader Napoleon Bonaparte
                    Broward; the weight of his influence so impressed itself on his day that it has been called the
                    Broward era.
            Broward's family was one of many impoverished by the Civil War. An orphan from childhood,
                    his rise to reputation and popularity was the result of his own hard work as steamboat captain on
                    the St. Johns River. When the Cuban struggle for independence materialized, Broward, then one of
                    three owners of the tug boat, "The Three Friends," turned filibusterer. He was a
                    startling success both in the amount of arms he carried to 
                        Cuba
                     and the amount of controversy he initiated with the 
                        United States
                     authorities. That he and the 
                        United States
                     seldom pursued the same policy endeared him to his contemporaries.
            Political forays became part of Broward's life when he became sheriff of Duval County in
                    1891. 
                        Jacksonville
                    , the county seat of Duval, presented a lusty picture in those days and Broward added
                    both vitality and variety to the scene. The author is particularly good at narrating this
                    turbulence, drawing color and humor as well as fact from his generous quotations from the press of
                    those years.
            By the time Broward became Governor of 
                        Florida
                     in 1905, he had added to his fight against corporate monopoly the project of draining
                    the Everglades, the great area of mucklands and sawgrass stretching for several million acres around
                    and to the south of Lake Okeechobee. Since many of the land, lumber, and railroad interests had
                    large unsatisfied land claims against 
                        Florida
                     on the one hand and were liable for drainage taxes on the other, they fought the
                    enterprise. But to a man of Broward's temperament, opposition solidified determination.
                    Drainage operations started with a paucity of both knowledge and money; from the former rose the
                    many problems still unsettled today and from the latter, land speculations and in time land scandals
                    which reverberated throughout the nation. The author leaves a number of questions un-discussed  covering this phase of the Governor's activities.
            Broward's last fight was his campaign for Senator in 1912. He won but the victory soon lost
                    its point; he died before he could take the coveted seat.
            Mr. Proctor has narrated an excellent study of a picturesque and vital figure of 
                        Florida
                    's history. The University of 
                        Florida
                     Press has embodied the study in an equally excellent format.
            Winter Park, 
                        Florida
                     Kathryn Abbey Hanna
         
         
            
               Simon Cameron's Adventure in Iron, 1837-1846. By James B. McNair.
                    (Published by the author. 818 S. Ardmore Avenue, 
                        Los Angeles
                     5, 
                        California
                    , 1949, pp. 160. Index, illustrations, and frontispiece portrait of Simon Cameron.
                    $3.85.)
            The history of Simon Cameron's political career is in some detail widely known; not so that
                    of his relevant business career. The author here contributes to the latter, chiefly from
                    "over fifty" Cameron manuscripts in the McNair family collection lately placed in
                    the Henry E. Huntington Library and Art Gallery at 
                  San
                        Marino, California
               . Thomas McNair
                    was in partnership with Simon Cameron, S. F. Headley, and Simon Humes "for the manufacture
                    and sale of iron (principally to what is now the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Railroad)."
            Space does not permit review of all the several interesting features of this book by James B. McNair,
                    "analytical chemist and genealogist." Example: He graphically describes the
                    property of McNair and Company, later Humes, McNair and Company at Foundryville or 
                        Columbia
                     Furnace, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , as a typical iron plantation. It consisted of a large acreage, a post office, a
                    mansion house, homes for workers, schoolhouse, office, store, gristmill, sawmill, blacksmith shop,
                    bake oven, fields, orchards, besides the woods, charcoal house, and furnaces—an
                    almost-sufficient unit not unlike the cotton plantation of the South (pp. 32-35). But this the
                    author fails to emphasize: labor in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     was "free," while that in the South, which also had iron plantations,
                    was chiefly "slave"; and Cameron did not hesitate,' as late as 1846, to recommend
                    Thomas McNair to James Walker, President James K. Polk's brother-in-law, who had a slave
                    labor iron  establishment in 
                        Tennessee
                     (pp. 99-101). A decade later, Simon Cameron was out-spokenly antislavery.
            It is much to the credit of James N. McNair that his book, though based primarily on a mere fraction
                    of the source material which ordinarily would have been created by the partnership, arouses
                    interest, accentuates issues, and yields suggestions. It may well spur people to look to their old
                    family and business correspondence, records, and papers, or to old neglected residues which were
                    thought to be worthless when the main collections, as in the case of the Cameron, were placed in
                    public repositories. May they follow McNair's example in placing their materials where
                    historical interests will be served.
            Indiana University Thomas P. Martin
         
         
            
               Some Notes on the Rosenberger Family in 
                            Pennsylvania
                         & 
                            Virginia
                        , 1729-1950. By Francis Coleman Rosenberger. (
                  Richmond, Virginia
               : The William Byrd Press, 1950, pp. vii, 39. Paper bound
                    $3.00.) Word from the West: A Letter to Rudolph Rosenberger in 
                            Virginia
                         from his son in Indiana, 1835. With an Introductory Note by Francis Coleman
                    Rosenberger. (The Prairie Press in 
                  Iowa City,
                            Iowa
               , 1951, pp. 12.)
            In two chapters on Some Notes on the Rosenberger Family, the author narrates the
                    history of the pioneers of this family in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and the early settlers in the Shenandoah Valley of 
                        Virginia
                    . A list of the Rosenberger Marriage Bonds in 
                  Shenandoah County, Virginia
               ,
                    1792-1848, furnishes the material for the third chapter.
            Members of the Rosenberger family migrated from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to the Shenandoah Valley of 
                        Virginia
                     during the latter part of the eighteenth century. Like his forefathers Asa Rosenberger
                    of the third generation had the urge to move and in 1830 chose for his destination 
                        Harrison County
                    , Indiana. Word from the West contains the letter Asa and Rachel
                    Rosenberger wrote to Rudolph and Barbary Rosenberger, his parents, in 
                        Virginia
                     giving a favorable impression of their adopted state.
            Copies of the booklets may be ordered from Francis Coleman Rosenberger, 509 Fontaine Street,
                            
                  Alexandria, Virginia
               .
            Thomas P. Martin
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Personnel of the Rappite Community of Harmony, Indiana, in the year 1824
            Otis E. Young∗
            
            When the Rappites decided to leave their colony in Indiana and return to 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , power of attorney was given to Frederick Rapp to sell their property. The document
                    dated May 21, 1824, is interesting in that it reveals the names of the members of this communistic
                    sect. While the names of George and Frederick Rapp are well known, the rank and file of the
                    membership have remained in obscurity. Many of the names appear to be misspelled which may be due to
                    the copyist's un-familiarity with the names when they were recorded in the deed record
                    book. As will be noted forty could not write and made their mark.
            Undoubtedly many persons joining the colony brought with them quite a bit of property, which was made
                    part of the common holdings. If the list of persons which follows is studied carefully, it will show
                    that there is some evidence that man and wife signed together in about fifty cases. There seems to
                    be no other logical explanation for this except that they may have been man and wife at one time. It
                    does not necessarily mean that they were living together on the date when the document was signed.
                    In signing as couples they may have felt they were protecting the investment they had made in the
                    colony. The renunciation of marriage came in 1807, before the Rappites came to Indiana. How well it
                    was enforced is not known. From time to time new recruits came to the colony from 
                        Germany
                    .
            In checking the list it also appears that men came in groups to sign, and women came in similar
                    groups, which may mean that they reported by place of residence. Interspersed among these groups are
                    the male and female in pairs, bearing the same family name.
            While it has been generally known that the Rappites were a closely knit group of Germans, it would
                    appear that they were even more closely knit, almost to a family basis. Such names as Rapp, Kurtz,
                    Knodel, Bauer, Schmid, Bamesberger, 
                  
                     ∗ Otis E. Young is head of the department of education at
                            Cornell College, 
                        Mt. Vernon, Iowa
                     .
               
                     Nachtrieb, Schnabel, Klein, Jung, Wagner, and Weingartner
                    appear frequently. It is highly probable that many more were related by blood whose names were not
                    the same. Such names as Smith and Baker are not strictly Germanic and may have been only Anglicized
                    forms.
            
                    To all to whom these presents may come, Be it known that whereas the undersigned persons, members
                        of an association at Harmonie, Indiana commonly known by the name of George Rapp &
                        Associates, are seized and possessed of & in certain messuages, lands, tennements,
                        & hereditaments & real estate & also of certain goods chattels &
                        other personal property situate in the States of Indiana & 
                            Illinois
                         & especially in the County of Posey & State of Indiana which said
                        real and personal property is of grate value.
                    Now know ye that we the subscribers wishing to sell all our real and personal property in the
                        State of Indiana & 
                            Illinois
                         by whatsoever title or in whatsoever name or names the same or any other part may
                        be held and reposing intire confidence in our worthy friend Frederick Rapp of Harmonie aforesaid
                        have and each of us hath made Constituted and appointed and by these presents do and each of us
                        doth, make constitute and appoint the said Frederick Rapp our true and lawful Attorney of and
                        for each and every one of use, for us and for each of us and in our or any of our names or in
                        the name of George Rapp & associates to take possession of all the real and personal
                        property situate in Indiana and 
                            Illinois
                         of which we or any or either of us are possessed or by any means entitled or
                        interested in either in severalty or jointly or in common with any other person or persons.
                    And also for us and for each of us in our or any of our Names or in the name of George Rapp
                        & associates to grant bargain and sell the real and personal estate situate as aforement
                        belonging to us to any or to either of us, or any part share or proportion thereof, of us of any
                        or of either of us and all our and each of our right title and interest therein for such price
                        and upon such terms as he in his descripsion may think proper and to take in his own name any
                        notes, bonds, mortgages or other securities for payment of the purchase money or any part
                        thereof and also for us and for each of us and in our or any of our names or in the name of
                        George Rapp and associates to execute and deliver conveyances to the purchasers of such real
                        property with such covenants and agreements as said attorney may deem adviseable binding upon us
                        and each of us our and each of our heirs & upon all persons claiming or to claim from or
                        under us or either of us.
                    Untill the sale of the real and personal property aforesaid, the said Frederick Rapp is hereby
                        authorized by us and by each of us in our or any of our names or in the name of George Rapp
                        & associates to Lease let and demise for any term whatever or in his own name to use
                        occupy and employ the unsold property real or personal or any part share or proportion hereof,
                        or to make any description whatever of the same And to receive sue for and recover the rents
                        issues proffits and proceeds thereof or to take in his own name there for any assurance
                        obligations or other securities forever and each of our use according to his discretion.
                    
                    By these presents we and each of us whose signatures and seals are affixed to this point and
                        several power of Attorney authorize the said Frederick Rapp generally to demand sue for and
                        receive for us and for each of us all sums of money or property which shall become due us or any
                        of us by virtue of any bargains in sales leases or other transactions herein authorized and also
                        to compremise arbetrate and agree for the same or any part thereof and acquittances or other
                        sufficient discharges therefor to make seal and delivered for us and for each of us and in our
                        or any of our names or in the name of George Rapp and associates generally to execute and
                        perform any thing that may be necessary in and about the premises as completely in every respect
                        as we ourselves or any of us might or could do if personally present and an attorney or
                        attornies under him for all or any of the purposes aforesaid to make and substituted and at his
                        pleasure to revoke hereby rattifying and confirming all and whatsoever our said Attorney shall
                        do or cause to be done in and about the premises by virtue of these presents.
                    In Testimony whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and seals this twenty first day of May in
                        the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and twenty four 
                     
                        George Rapp
                        Maria Nachtrieb
                        Penotus Zundel
                     
                     
                        Christina Rapp
                        Drotheb Nachtrieb
                        Johannes Muller
                     
                     
                        Rosina Rapp
                        Magdelena
                        Michael Veihmeyer
                     
                     
                        Johnanna Rapp
                        Bamesberger
                        Lorentz Schnell
                     
                     
                        John P. Baker
                        Salouea Scholle
                        Jacob Zundel
                     
                     
                        George Schmid
                        Margareth Scholle∗∗
                        
                        Heinrich Jung
                     
                     
                        William Smith
                        Siloestus Gayer
                        Christina Durrwalchler
                     
                     
                        George Bendel
                        George Wagner
                        Magdal Lohrer
                     
                     
                        Katharine Bendel
                        Maria Wagner
                        Susana Seybert∗∗
                        
                     
                     
                        Johannes Schnabel
                        George Forstuer
                        Catharine Kant
                     
                     
                        Eva Schnabel
                        Maria Forstuer
                        Maria Veihmeyer∗∗
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                                        Israel
                                     Bentel
                        George Bentel
                        Maria Schmid
                     
                     
                        Catharine Bentel
                        Margartha Bentel
                        Heinrika Zundel
                     
                     
                        Wilhelmina Bentel
                        Melina Wagner
                        Catharine Zunder
                     
                     
                        Friderika Mutschler
                        Elizabeth Jule
                        Maria Lohrer
                     
                     
                        Frederika Mutschler
                        Catharine Rein∗∗
                        
                        Frederika Dengler
                     
                     
                        Frederick Nachtrieb
                        Jacob Wagner
                        David Koenig
                     
                     
                        Dorothea Nachtrieb
                        David Wagner
                        Rosina Koenig
                     
                     
                        John Reichart
                        George Weingartner
                        Johannes Trompeter
                     
                     
                        Johanna Reichart
                        Michael Weingartner
                        Catharine Trompeter∗∗
                        
                     
                     
                        Johannes Reichart
                        Michael Forstuer
                        Ludwig Hagmeyer
                     
                     
                        Friederika
                        George Forstuer
                        Hillams Henring
                     
                     
                        Bamesberger
                        Jacob Dengler
                        Christoph Weber
                     
                     
                        Jacob Scholle
                        Louisa Dengler
                        Peter Rosden
                     
                     
                        Mathew Scholle
                        Frederick Kurtz
                        Gilber Trompeter
                     
                     
                        Hilpert Scholle
                        Christina Kurtz
                        Johnannes Trompeter
                     
                     
                        Adam Nachtrieb
                        Adam Jung
                        Catharina Vogt
                     
                     
                        Josua Nachtrieb
                        Wilhelm Zeller
                        Elizabeth Velte
                     
                     
                        Johannes Bamesberger
                        Walrath Weingartner
                        Jacobina Koenig
                     
                  
               
                    
                  ∗∗ Could not write and made the appropriate mark.
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Elisabetha
                     Rosina Kramer
                     Sabina Stily
                  
                  
                     Durrwalchter
                     Johanna Stahl
                     Jersida Frank
                  
                  
                     Eva Jung
                     Apolena Vogt
                     
                     Magdalena Streheker
                  
                  
                     Caroline Beiper
                     Michael Friz
                     Barbara Frank
                  
                  
                     Frolina Herman
                     George Frank
                     Margareth Bessanin
                  
                  
                     Catharina Schnieb
                     Shigust Schmid
                     Mathew Weidenbach
                  
                  
                     Margaret Rosdann∗∗
                     
                     Christopher Leucht
                     Adam Straub
                  
                  
                     Susana Rosdann∗∗
                     
                     Michael Haufler
                     Daniel Lentz
                  
                  
                     Elona Loenpple
                     Reinmund Gaun
                     Sabina Benger∗∗
                     
                  
                  
                     Philena Stark∗∗
                     
                     Christopher Dain
                     Johanna Woulhaf
                  
                  
                     Erustina Trompeter
                     Sebald Meih
                     Johannes Dick
                  
                  
                     Christian Waldman
                     Jacob Gayer
                     David Lenz
                  
                  
                     Elizabeth Waldman∗∗
                     
                     Reinhold Frank
                     Jacob Kraie
                  
                  
                     Jacob Stitz
                     Jacob Bauer
                     Heob Ifeil
                  
                  
                     Dorotha Stitz
                     Christian Autrich
                     Regina Frank
                  
                  
                     Johannes Hoernle
                     Michael Bauman
                     Maria Benger∗∗
                     
                  
                  
                     David Kant
                     Jacob Kurtz
                     Megina Barchet
                  
                  
                     Joseph Hoernle
                     Magdalena Wolf
                     Magdal Ehman
                  
                  
                     Johannes Reif
                     Elizabeth Kroemer
                     Regina Bergdolf
                  
                  
                     Frederick Braun∗∗
                     
                     Jacob Frederich Ifiel
                     Rosina Rein
                  
                  
                     Frantz Bonnet
                     Margaretha Ifeil
                     Christina Wolfer
                  
                  
                     Martin Dieterle
                     Christian Aigner
                     Lawrina Ifiel
                  
                  
                     Christopher Strohaker
                     Mariah Aigner
                     Catharina Wohlgemath
                  
                  
                     Florian Keppler
                     Jacob Ehman
                     David Muller
                  
                  
                     Adam Scheiber
                     Eva Ehman
                     Peter Gutbrod
                  
                  
                     Phillip Bochringer
                     Michael Stahl
                     Antonius Knapper
                  
                  
                     Johannes Schanbacher
                     Catharine Stahl
                     Johannea Herman
                  
                  
                     Andreas Oestreicher
                     George Fink
                     Jacob Koenig
                  
                  
                     Jacob Strokoker
                     Elizabeth Fink∗∗
                     
                     Henrich Gayer
                  
                  
                     Jacob Schanbacker
                     Henry Hardman
                     Nathaniel Zimmerrnan
                  
                  
                     Edward Stilz
                     
                     Jacob Bizer
                     Christopher Bauer
                  
                  
                     Jacob Rein
                     Anna Bitzer
                     Jacob Diem
                  
                  
                     Jacob Geiger
                     
                     George Ruhle
                     Barbara Diemin
                  
                  
                     George Keppler
                     Catharine Ruhle
                     Jacob Spengler
                  
                  
                     Christoph Keppler
                     Daniel Vogt
                     Agnes Spengler
                  
                  
                     Catharina Keppler
                     Magddena Vogt
                     Jacob Sander
                  
                  
                     Margaretha
                     Henrich Knapper
                     Eusebius Boehn
                  
                  
                     Schanbacher
                     Dorothy Knapper∗∗
                     
                     Albert Knodel
                  
                  
                     Frederika Kant
                     Andreas Widmayer
                     Engelhart Authrieth
                  
                  
                     Sibilla Hinger
                     Alphanas Benzenhefer
                     Elizabeth Knodel
                  
                  
                     Sibilla Hurbebaus
                     Sirena Leucht
                     Julianna Autrieth∗∗
                     
                  
                  
                     Catharine Longenbaker
                     Rosin Rein
                     Henrick Hang
                  
                  
                     Catharine Longenbaker
                     Elizabeth Hoernlenien
                     Mathewa IUein
                  
                  
                     Jacob Bunenhoefer
                     Agatha Wolfer
                     Ludwig Kast
                  
                  
                     Catharine
                     Elizabeth Oestriceher
                     Margrada Ksst
                  
                  
                     Bursenhoefer
                     Catharina Bennet∗∗
                     
                     John Cunn∗∗
                     
                  
                  
                     Salomo Wolf
                     Dorothea Mahle
                     Jacob Hunn
                  
                  
                     Elisabeth Wolf
                     Fredericka Welchof
                     Christoph Trogle
                  
                  
                     I. Chr. Muller
                     Rosina Loeflerin
                     Jacob Schell
                  
                  
                     Johana Muller
                     Catharina
                     Conrod Knodle
                  
                  
                     Melchior Darner
                     Bochringerin
                     
                     Higenius Frank
                  
               
                    
                    
                  
                     George Beisser
                     Elisabeth
                     Jacobina Woelhof
                  
                  
                     Anna Hasert
                     Hurlenbausin
                     Catharine Frautwein
                  
                  
                     Catharina Frank
                     Christina Beisser
                     Susanna Schnepper∗∗
                     
                  
                  
                     Catharina Ehman
                     Barbara Weissertin
                     Maria Schriver∗∗
                     
                  
                  
                     Frederika Aigner
                     Agnas Baderin
                     Jacob Schriver
                  
                  
                     Rosina Klein
                     Magdal Schmidin
                     Maria Schriver∗∗
                     
                  
                  
                     Elizabeth Geiger
                     Magdal Leucht
                     Solomon Schreiber
                  
                  
                     Maria Schock∗∗
                     
                     Regina Knodel
                     Rebecca Schreiber
                  
                  
                     Dorothea Klein
                     Magdal Weidenbach
                     Clemens Weingartner
                  
                  
                     Maria Eheman
                     Elisabeth
                     Conrod Benzinger
                  
                  
                     Maria Vester
                     Lautenschlager
                     Trompart Durr
                  
                  
                     Sabina Beker
                     Maria Durr
                     Mathews Schaefer
                  
                  
                     Elisabeth Stahl
                     Margret Wochele∗∗
                     
                     Johanna Schmid
                  
                  
                     Juliana Ehman
                     Barbara Hess∗∗
                     
                     Elisabeth Bauer∗∗
                     
                  
                  
                     Magdalena Seibolden
                     Christina Wolf ongel
                     Frederika Schmid
                  
                  
                     Barbara Feucht
                     Agnas Ashinger
                     Johanna Oestreicker
                  
                  
                     Margretha Reiff
                     Catharina Schaefer
                     Margreth Frautwein
                  
                  
                     Maria Barchet
                     Regina Schaefer
                     Mariah Reiff
                  
                  
                     Margretha Hasert
                     Maria Wolfer
                     Elisabeth Lacupple
                  
                  
                     Rosina Hingert
                     Agartha Kurz
                     Jacobina Schmid
                  
                  
                     Dorotha Hermann∗∗
                     
                     Margretha Krail
                     Fredrika Schmid
                  
                  
                     Margaret Epple∗∗
                     
                     Anna Barbara Kuhnlin
                     Catharina Strohacker
                  
                  
                     Maria Neff
                     Augusta Beisser
                     Catharina Zeller
                  
                  
                     Barbara Rapp
                     W ilhelmina
                     Margreth Jung
                  
                  
                     Maria Staigerni
                     Darrwalchter
                     Regina Klingmstein
                  
                  
                     Barbara Laeupple
                     Jacobina Klein
                     Johannes Lump
                  
                  
                     Elizabetha Bochringer
                     Carolina Staudenmeyer
                     Johanna Stump∗∗
                     
                  
                  
                     Catharine Geiger
                     Barbara Mayer
                     Thomas Wohrle
                  
                  
                     Elisabetha Vaihinger
                     Christina Bauer
                     Catharine Woehrle
                  
                  
                     Johana Houni
                     Elisabeth Veigner
                     David Krauter
                  
                  
                     Christina Mutschler
                     Elizabeth Deb∗∗
                     
                     Adam Marguardt
                  
                  
                     Catharine Jordan
                     Dorothy F A∗∗
                     
                     David Schaefer
                  
                  
                     Maria Reif∗∗
                     
                     Lewis Schriver
                     Margreth Schaefer
                  
                  
                     Elisabetha Frank
                     Elisabeth Schriver
                     Christian Ashinger
                  
                  
                     Elizabetha Knodel
                     Franz Blank
                     Maria Ashinger
                  
                  
                     Eva Bauer
                     Magdolena Blank
                     Tobias Haufler
                  
                  
                     Regina Schmid
                     Jacob Lacupple
                     Regina Haufler
                  
                  
                     Catharina Staiger
                     Eustina Lacupple
                     Frederica Goetzin
                  
                  
                     Maria Nix
                     Martin Stahl
                     Margreth Wohlgemuth
                  
                  
                     Anna Wolfer
                     Catharina Stahl
                     Eva F A∗∗
                     
                  
                  
                     Maria Frank∗∗
                     
                     Ludwig Bauman
                     Joseph Goetz
                  
                  
                     Dorothea Spaeth
                     Maria Baumann
                     Christian Frank
                  
                  
                     Catharina Schanbacher
                     Christian Aigner
                     Jacob Klein
                  
                  
                     Elisabeth Geiger
                     Magdalena Aigner
                     Johannes Beauer
                  
                  
                     Jacob Beker
                     Jacob Forstuer
                     Ludwig Epple
                  
                  
                     Rosina Beker
                     Catharine Forstuer
                     Johannes Endriss
                  
                  
                     Frederick
                     George Gutbrod
                     Catharina Aschinger
                  
                  
                     Eckensperger
                     Rosina Gutbrod∗∗
                     
                     Catharina Beutz
                  
                  
                     Conrad Gann
                     Phillip Beker
                     Regina Bauerin
                  
                  
                     George Kurtz
                     Christian Schmid
                     Elisabeth Wolgemuth
                  
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Fredrica Velte
                     Christian Riesh
                     Regina Bentel∗∗
                     
                  
                  
                     Maria Marguardt
                     Catharina Riesh
                     John Besean
                  
                  
                     Maria Woehrle
                     Rolandus Hoehr
                     George Flekhammer
                  
                  
                     Johannes Kurz
                     Maria Hoehr
                     George Knodel
                  
                  
                     Barbara Kurnz
                     Christina Rukenbrod
                     David Ruff
                  
                  
                     George Wigand
                     Friderika Endriss
                     Ludwig Schaal
                  
                  
                     Regina Wigand
                     Fridrika Fruh
                     Barbara Hartstein∗∗
                     
                  
                  
                     Christoph Leucht
                     Christoph Lang
                     Aushelmes Voelm
                  
                  
                     Frederich Buhler
                     Johannes Bonnet
                     Catharine Woerner
                  
                  
                     George Heinle
                     Johan Kappel∗∗
                     
                     Regina Knodel∗∗
                     
                  
                  
                     Fredericka Heinle
                     Conrad Boehm
                     Jacob Durr
                  
                  
                     Phillipp Heinle
                     Rosina Boehm
                     Jacob Wohlgemuth
                  
                  
                     Johannes Spaeth
                     Wilhelm Fegert
                     Ferdinand Autheriel
                  
                  
                     Christiana Plessing
                     Barbara Fegert
                     Ludwif Pfeil
                  
                  
                     George Kurtz
                     Martin Rall
                     Jacob Schaefer
                  
                  
                     Erhard Klingenstein
                     Philipbina Rall
                     Regory Ruff
                  
                  
                     Leander Ebner
                     Regina Bamesberger
                     Johannes Goetz
                  
                  
                     Helmuth Lacupple
                     George Moess
                     Jacob Kurtz
                  
                  
                     Margreth Rukebrod
                     Micleta Ehman
                     Jacob Spaeth
                  
                  
                     Nicara Thorwarth
                     Johannes Kurtz
                     Philemon Schaal
                  
                  
                     Veronica Frank
                     Margreth Knodel
                     George Schall
                  
                  
                     Catharine Spaeth∗∗
                     
                     Romanus Beysor
                     Jacob Woehrle
                  
                  
                     Barbara Knodel
                     Fredrick Boger
                     George Reiff
                  
                  
                     Anna Beauer
                     Johannes Blum
                     Conrad Thorworth
                  
                  
                     George Beutz
                     Christina Barchet
                     Jacob Bessan
                  
                  
                     George Conzelman
                     Catharine Buhler
                     Catharina Schmid
                  
                  
                     Christian Wohlgemuth
                     Sturmina Knodel
                     Catharina Schmid
                  
                  
                     Christian Woehrle
                     Adam Schule
                     Maria Zoll∗∗
                     
                  
                  
                     Jacob Zimmerman
                     Joseph Kotesba
                     Jacobina Knodel
                  
                  
                     Eberhard Frank
                     Johannus Eberle
                     Mathew Speidel
                  
                  
                     Angelius Vaigner
                     
                        
                                    Israel
                                 Lenz
                     Rebecca Oestreicher
                  
                  
                     David Beauer
                     Christian Knodel
                     Freiderich Kohler
                  
                  
                     Christoph Loefler
                     Johannes Beyser
                     Jacob Klingenstein
                  
                  
                     Fredrick Wolfer
                     Fridora Leucht∗∗
                     
                     Michael Plessing
                  
                  
                     Elisabeth Wolfer∗∗
                     
                     Johannes Viehmeir
                     Margreth Pleseing∗∗
                     
                  
                  
                     Gotfried Endriss
                     Jacob Vaihenberger
                     Frederich Lacupple
                  
                  
                     Maria Endriss
                     Jacob Schenkenberges
                     Michael Feucht
                  
                  
                     Gottlieb Hoehr
                     Adam Gayer
                     George Bauer
                  
                  
                     Christian Hoehr
                     Arnold Bentel
                     Jacob Riesch
                  
               
                    Signed sealed and delivered by the undersigned this second day of March A.D. Eighteen hundred and
                        twenty five
                    
                  Peter Schreiber
                  John Schreiber
                  Romelius L. Baker
                  Conrod Feucht
               
                    Witness Isaac Blackford∗
               
                    
                  
                     ∗ One of the judges of the Supreme Court of Indiana.
               
                    
                    Harmonie Indiana—This certifies that the within Power of Attorney was signed, sealed
                        and delivered and acknowledged by the five hundred & one persons within named on the
                        twenty first & twenty second days of May eighteen hundred & twenty four in our
                        presence.
                    John Schnee Isaac Blackford1
               
                
            
               
                  1
                        
                            Posey County
                        , Indiana, Deed Record D, 116-127. This record is in the courthouse at 
                            Mt. Vernon
                        , Indiana.
            
         
         
         
            Denny Genealogy
            The third volume of the Denny Genealogy, by Margaret Collins Denny Dixon and Elizabeth Chapman Denny
                    Vann, has recently been published. This volume of the interesting work on a Scots-Irish family deals
                    with the descendants of David Denny, many of whom came to Indiana, settling in 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        Putnam
                     counties especially. Many descendants are still living in the state. A copy of the work
                    is in the Genealogy Division of the Indiana State Library. Copies may be purchased from Mrs. Eugene
                    E. Vann, 186 Harrison Street, Leonia, 
                        New Jersey
                    .
         
         
            Hill Men of Indiana
            
               David Hill born 1803 son of John and Rachel Butner.
               David Hill died 1903 
                            Lafayette
                         married Nancy Steele.
               David Hill engineer married Catherine Welker 1867 Allen Co.
               David G. Hill Co. G 21st Regiment Indiana Infantry 1863.
               David L. Hill married Viola Oaks 1919.
               David T. Hill born 1854 son of Wm. C. and Emeline McCain.
               Rev. Dean C. Hill married May E. Danner 1920.
               E. H. Hill married Cleo I. Krick 1920 Adams Co.
               Edward Hill born 1849/50 Indiana son of Conrad Hill and Barbara?
               Edward Hill married Ida Ensley 1892 
                            Bartholomew
                         Co.
               Edward C. Hill married Della Gore 1885 
                            Bartholomew
                         Co.
               Eli Hill 6th Regiment Conn. Rev. War buried 
                            Lawrenceburg
                        , Ind.
               Eli F. Hill of Paoli Pvt. Co. F 13th Cav. Regt. Ind. 1864.
               Elias B. Hill married Naomi Bowles 1880.
               Elijah B. Hill of Westville Pvt. 9th Regt. Ind. Inf. Co. H. 1861.
               Elijah P. Hill married Jennie Rose at 
                            Valparaiso
                        , Ind. 1853.
               Elkanah W. Hill born 1864 died 1946 Winchester, Ind.
            
            Records and correspondence on these men desired by
            Edwin P. Hill
            5421 
                        Broadway
                    
            
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                     20, Indiana
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
