
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 12, Issue 1, pages 1-94. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:12+issue:1+year:1916&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The First Public Land Surveys in Indiana; Freeman's Lines
            By GEORGE R. WILSON, Civil Engineer.
            The earliest land claims about 
                        Vincennes
                     rested on a reputed grant by the Indians. According to a memorial
                    to congress, filed by the inhabitants of 
                        Vincennes
                    , the Indians of the 
                        Wabash
                    , at a council in 1742, ceded to them all the land from Point Coupes
                    to the mouth of White river. The record of the treaty long
                    remained with the recorder of deeds at 
                        Vincennes
                    , but at the beginning of the French and Indian War an absconding
                    officer is said to have taken the deed away with him. The petitioners claimed
                    that the Indians had often ratified this gift, afterward extending it forty
                    leagues west and thirty leagues east of the 
                        Wabash
                    . The congressional committee rejected the claim, on the ground that
                    if there were such a grant, it had been made to the French government, and in
                    time, had passed to the 
                        United States
                     under the treaties of 1763 and 1783.1
            
            This claim was, in a measure, at least, recognized when the deed to the Wabash
                    Land Company was made, for in that deed the land was excepted. The lines and
                    corners of this grant are known as the "Freeman Lines and
                    Corners."
            The "Freeman Lines and Corners" have been subjects of a great
                    deal of comment recently. They are lines run, and corners established by Thomas
                    Freeman, a surveyor, in 1802-3, when Indiana was a territory. He surveyed a
                    tract of land that was 
                  
                     1
                            American State Papers, Public Lands I, 26;
                            Esarey'a Indiana, page 132.
               
                     "excepted" from a very
                    large body of land which a company of men bought, or attempted to buy from the
                    Indians in 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana. The "excepted" tract is known as the 
                        Vincennes
                     Tract.
            To understand the situation fully one must keep in mind that 
                        Vincennes
                     is a very old city; that there were "land
                    grabbers" in pioneer days; that Wild Cat creek empties into the
                        Wabash river near 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana; that Point Coupee is on the Wabash
                    river about six miles south of Merom, in 
                        Sullivan county
                    , Indiana; and that Wabash river was once
                    written "Ouabache river."
            Companies of men who promoted enterprises, settlements, etc., were formed in the
                    East and operated in the Northwest Territory. Among them may be mentioned the "
                        Illinois
                     Land Company" and the "Wabash Land
                    Company."
            On March 21, 1775, Governor Dunmore, of 
                        Virginia
                    , issued a proclamation ordering that all vacant land of His Majesty
                    within the colony of 
                        Virginia
                    , "be surveyed in districts and laid out in lots of from
                    100 to 1,000 acres, and put up at public sale."
            In the year 1775, after the expedition of Lord Dunmore against the Shawnees,
                    Louis Viviat, a merchant of the 
                        Illinois Country
                    , commenced a negotiation with the Piankeshaw Indians for the
                    purchase of two large districts of country lying upon the borders of the
                        river Wabash. Viviat acted as agent of an association
                    of individuals which was denominated the "Wabash Land
                    Company;" and at 
                        Post Vincennes
                    , October 18, 1775, he obtained a deed from eleven Piankeshaw
                    chiefs. The deed is a sample of pioneer conveyances, or treaties, is full of
                    historical interest, a guide to land values, and a record of the business
                    sagacity of the land grabber.
            The deed in full reads as follows :2
            
            "To all people to whom these Presents shall come: Know ye, that we,
                    Tabac, or Tobacco, Montour, La Grand Oouette, Ouaouaijao. Tabac. Junior. La
                    Mouche Noire, or the Black Fly, Le Maringouin, or Mosquito. Le Petit Castor, or
                    the Little Beaver. Kiesquibichias, Grelot, senior, and Grelot. Junior, chiefs
                    and sachems of the several tribes of Piankeshaw nation of Indians, and being,
                    and effectually representing, all the several tribes of the Piankeshaw Indians,
                    send greeting:
            "Whereas Louis Viviat, of the 
                        Illinois Country
                    , merchant, one of the grantees hereinafter named, as well for
                    himself, as on the parts and behalfs of the several other grantees herein also
                    after named, did. at several conferences publicly held with us, the said chiefs
                    and sachems, at the towns 
                  
                     2 Dillon, Historical Notes of the
                                North-Western Territory, 1843, pages 118 to 123.
               
                     and villages Post Saint Vincent and 
                        Vermillion
                    , treat and confer for the purchase of certain tracts of land
                    belonging and appertaining unto us. and to the several tribes of our nation,
                    whom we represent:
            "And whereas we, the said chiefs and sachems, have deliberately and
                    maturely considered, for ourselves and our posterities, and consulted with the
                    other natives of our several tribes, respecting the proposals made as aforesaid
                    to us, the said chiefs and sachems, by the said Louis Viviat. on behalf of
                    himself and others: And whereas we, the said chiefs and sachems, as well as all
                    the other natives of the several tribes of our nation, are fully satisfied and
                    contented, for the consideration hereinafter mentioned, to grant and confirm
                    unto the said Louis Viviat, and to the other grantees hereinafter mentioned, the
                    several quantities and tracts of lands hereinafter bounded and described.
            "Now. know ye. therefore, that we, the said chiefs and sachems of the
                    Piankeshaw nation aforesaid, in full and public council assembled, at the town
                    or village of Post Saint Vincent aforesaid, for and in consideration of the sum
                    of five shillings, to us in hand paid by the said Louis Viviat. and for and in
                    consideration of the following goods and merchandise, to us, the said Tabac. or
                    Tobacco. Montour, La Grand Couette. Ouaonaijao. Tabac. junior. La Mouche Noire,
                    or the Black Fly, Le Maringouin, or Musquito. Le I'etit Castor, or
                    the Little Beaver. Kiesquibiehias. Grelot. senior, and Grelot, junior, for the
                    use of the several tribes of our nation, well and truly delivered in full
                    council aforesaid. that is to say: "four hundred blankets, twenty-two
                    pieces of stroud, two hundred and fifty shirts, twelve gross of star gartering,
                    one hundred and twenty pieces of ribbon, twenty-four pounds of vermillion.
                    eighteen pairs velvet laced housings, one piece of malton, fifty-two fusils,
                    thirty-live dozen large buckborn-handle knives, forty dozen couteau knives, five
                    hundred pounds of brasskettles. ten thousand gunflints. six hundred pounds of
                    gunpowder, two thousand pounds of lead, four hundred pounds of tobacco, forty
                    bushels of salt, three thousand pounds of flour, three horses: also, the
                    following quantities of silverware, viz: eleven very large armbands, forty
                    wristbands, six wholemoons, six halfmoons, nine ear-wheels. forty-six large
                    crosses, twenty-nine hairpipes. sixty pairs of ear-bobs. twenty dozen small
                    crosses, twenty dozen nosecrosses, and one hundred and ten dozen brooches, the
                    receipt whereof we do hereby acknowledge. have granted, bargained, sold,
                    aliened, released, enfeoffed. ratified, and fully confirmed, and by these
                    Presents do grant, bargain. sell, alien, release, enfeoff, ratify, and fully
                    confirm, unto the said Louis Viviat, the right honorable John. Karl of Dunmore,
                    governor of the colony and dominion of 
                        Virginia
                    ; the honorable John Murray, son of the said earl, Moses Franks and
                    Jacob Franks, of the city of Loudon, in the kingdom of Great Britain, Esquires;
                    Thomas Johnson, jr., Esquire, attorney at law. and John Davidson, merchant, both
                    of the city of 
                        Annapolis
                    . in the province of 
                        Maryland
                    ; William Russell, Esquire. Matthew Ridley. Robert Christie, sen.,
                    and Robert Christie, jr., of 
                        Baltimore
                     town, in the said province of 
                        Maryland
                    , merchants; Peter Campbell, of 
                        Piscataway
                    . in 
                        Maryland
                    , merchant; William Geddes, of 
                        Newtown Chester
                    , in 
                        Maryland
                    .
            
            Esq., collector of His Majesty's customs; David Franks, merchant, and
                    Moses Franks, attorney at law, both of the city of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , in the province of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ; William Murray, and Daniel Murray, of the 
                        Illinois Country
                    , merchants; Nicholas St. Martin, and Joseph Page, of the same
                    place, gentlemen; Francis Perthuis, late of 
                        Quebec city
                    , in 
                        Canada
                    , but now of Post St. Vincent aforesaid, gentlemen; their heirs and
                    assigns, equally to be divided, or to his most sacred Majesty George the Third,
                    by the grace of God, of Great Britain, 
                        France
                    , and 
                        Ireland
                    , King, Defender of the Faith, and so forth, his heirs and
                    successors, for the use, benefit, and behoof of all the said several above named
                    grantees. their heirs and assigns, in severalty as aforesaid; (by whichever of
                    these tenures they may most legally hold the same:) the two several tracts or
                    parcels of lands, hereinafter bounded and described, viz:
            "One tract or parcel of land, situate, lying, and being on both sides of
                    the Ouabache river, beginning at the mouth of a rivulet
                    called Riviere du Chat, or Cat River, where it empties
                    itself into the Ouabache river aforesaid, being about
                    fifty-two leagues distant from the above Post St. Vincent aforesaid; thence down
                    the Ouabache, by the several courses thereof, to a place called Point Coupee,
                    (about twelve leagues above Post St. Vincent.) being forty leagues, or
                    thereabouts, in length on the said river Ouabache, from the place of beginning,
                    with forty leagues in width or breadth on the east side, and thirty leagues in
                    breadth or width on the west side of the Ouabache river
                    aforesaid; to be continued along from the place of beginning to Point Coupee
                    aforesaid. And also one other tract or parcel of land, situated, lying, and
                    being on both sides of the Ouabache river aforesaid,
                    beginning from the mouth of White river, where it empties
                    itself into the Ouabache river, (about twelve leagues below
                    Post St. Vincent,) thence down the Ouabache river, by the
                    several courses thereof, until it empties itself into the Ohio
                    river, being from the said White river to the 
                        Ohio
                    , fifty-three leagues in length, or thereabouts, be the same more or
                    less, with forty leagues in width or breadth on the east side, and thirty
                    leagues in width or breadth on the west side of the Ouabache
                    river aforesaid; (the intermediate space of twenty-four leagues. or
                    thereabouts, between Point Coupee and the mouth of the White
                    river aforesaid, being reserved for the use of the inhabitants of
                    Post St. Vincent aforesaid, with the same width or breadth on both sides of the
                        Ouabache river, as is hereby granted in the two other
                    several tracts of land above bounded and described,) the aforesaid two several
                    tracts of land hereby bargained and sold, from the first place of beginning to
                    the Ohio river. consisting together of Ninety-three leagues
                    in length on the Ouabache river, and on both sides thereof
                    inclusive, seventy leagues in width or breadth, and that, during its whole
                    course as aforementioned, exclusive of. and beside, the reservation of
                    twenty-four leagues in length, and seventy leagues in width or breadth, for the
                    inhabitants of Post St. Vincent. reserved as aforesaid. And the said chiefs and
                    sachems, for themselves. and for the several other natives of their nation, whom
                    they fully and effectually represent, and their and every of their posterities,
                    do hereby guaranty, engage, promise, covenant, and agree, to and with the
                    several 
                    
                  INDIAN LAND CESSIONS
                                IN INDIANA.
               
                     above-named grantees, their heirs, and
                    assigns, and every of them, that they, the said several above named grantees,
                    their heirs and assigns, and every of them, shall and may, at all time, for ever
                    hereafter have and enjoy the full, free, and undisturbed navigation of the said
                        Ouabache river, from its confluence with the 
                        Ohio
                     to its source; as well as of all the other several rivers running
                    through the lands hereby bargained and sold, any thing herein contained to the
                    contrary, or supposed to be. in any wise, notwithstanding: And also all
                    minerals, ores, trees, woods, underwoods, waters, watercourses, profits,
                    commodities, advantages, rights, liberties, privileges, hereditaments, and
                    appurtenances, whatsoever, to the said two several tracts of land belonging, or
                    in any wise appertaining: And also the reversion and reversions, remainder and
                    remainders. rents, issues, and profits thereof, and of every part and parcel
                    thereof; and all the estate, right, title, interest, use. property, possession,
                    claim. and demand of them, the said Tabac, or Tobacco, etc., chief's
                    and sachems aforesaid, and of all and every other person and persons whatsoever,
                    of or belonging to the said Piankeshaw nation of Indians, of, into, and out of
                    the premises, and every part and parcel thereof; to have and to hold the said
                    two several tracts or parcels of land, and all and sigular the said granted and
                    bargained premises, with the appurtenances, unto the said Louis Viviat, etc.,
                    their heirs or assigns, for ever, in severalty, or unto his majesty, his heirs,
                    raid successors, to and for the only use, benefit, and behoof of the said
                    grantees, their heirs and assigns, for ever, as aforeaid.
            "And the said Tabac, or Tobacco, etc., for themselves and for all the
                    several tribes of their nation, and all and every other nation, or nations.
                    tributaries, and dependents on the said Fiankeshaw Indians, and their. and every
                    of their, posterities, the said several tracts of land and premises. and every
                    part and parcel thereof, against them the said several above-named chiefs and
                    sachems, and the said Piankeshaw Indians, and their tributaries and dependents,
                    and all and every of their posterities, unto all the severally above-named
                    grantees, their heirs, and assigns. in severalty, or unto his said majesty, his
                    heirs, and successors, to and for the only use, benefit, and behoof, of the said
                    grantees, their heirs, and a ssigns. in severalty as aforesaid, shall and will
                    warrant, and for ever defend, by these Presents." 
            This deed, which conveyed to the purchasers about 37,497,600 acres, was signed by
                    the Indians, attested by a number of the inhabitants at 
                        Vincennes
                    , and subsequently registered in the office of a notary public at
                            
                  Kaskaskia, Illinois
               . The commencement
                    and progress of the Revolutionary War frustrated the schemes of the Wabash Land
                    Company, and prevented it from planting English settlements in the territory to
                    the possession of which they had acquired only an imperfect claim.
            The agents of the company applied to the American Congress  for a confirmation of a part of the claim, in the
                    years 1781, 1791, 1797, 1804 and 1810; but all of these applications were
                        rejected.3
            
            That part excepted by this Indian deed and admitted to have a French, or white
                    title, has become known as the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract." It contained about 1,600,000 acres. That part of
                    it which was in Indiana had its northeast corner near Orleans. The north line of
                    this old Indian land started at Point Coupee, on the Wabash
                    river, about six miles below Merom, Indiana, and about 39 degrees
                    north latitude. It ran at a right angle to the main trend of the
                        Wabash river between Point Coupee and the mouth of
                        White river. That is, it ran south 78 degrees east,
                    passed near 
                        Odon
                    , Indiana, and near 
                        Georgia
                    , Indiana, and ended in Section 19, near Orleans, at what is locally
                    known as "Freeman's Corner." (This north boundary
                    line was so surveyed as to place the French settlement, at 
                        Carlisle
                    , in 
                        Sullivan county
                    , within the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract.") Surveyor Thomas Freeman ran the lines of this "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract," in 1802-3, and placed a post at the corner not far
                    from the center of Section 19. From this corner the line ran south 12 degrees
                    west, 40 miles, through 
                        Orange
                    , 
                        Crawford
                     and 
                        Perry counties
                    , to a point at a creek in 
                        Perry county
                     about 7½ miles due south of the southeast corner of
                    Dubois county, and near Apalona, in 
                        Perry county
                    . In going south 12 degrees west, 40 miles, the line ran nearly
                    12½ miles west of a due south line.4 The south
                    line ran from this point, through 
                        Perry
                    , 
                        Spencer
                    , 
                        Dubois
                    , 
                        Pike
                     and 
                        Gibson
                     counties to the mouth of White river. It
                    passed near the St. Meinrad Monastery. Freeman ran both lines from the river
                    eastward. The east line he ran by going southward from the Orleans corner. He
                    turned the Orleans corner at a right angle, (90 degrees) and passed through what
                    is now Orleans, and between Paoli and Abydel, and near Eckerty, in 
                        Crawford county
                    .
            In making his survey he was required to cut out some of the underbrush, and in
                    that way opened up forest paths, which, in some places, in time, became trails
                    and finally public roads.
            In the Indian treaty the standard of the measurement used was the league. A
                    marine league, in 
                        England
                     and America is 18,240 feet, or almost 3½ miles. Perhaps
                    a water measurement was used because the description was based on the
                        Wabash river. The 
                  
                     3 Dillon's History of
                                Indiana, 109; Wilson's History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                     , Chapter 7.
                  
                     4 Survey Record 5, page 17, State
                            Auditor's Office.
               
                     common league of 
                        France
                     was 2.422 miles, and since the treaty was between the French and
                    Indians this measurement may have been employed. A land league is sometimes said
                    to be three, statute miles. It seems each country has its own length for a
                    league, and frequently one league for water, another for land, and still another
                    for mail routes, etc., so it appears very indefinite. A league is an itinerary
                    unit not in much use now. It was once used in making treaties with water courses
                    as boundaries, before surveys had been made.
            This "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract" was 24 leagues wide, and 70 leagues long. Part of
                    it was in 
                        Illinois
                    . Twenty-four leagues along the meanderings of the 
                        Wabash
                     proved to be 40 miles when run south 12 degrees west from the
                    Orleans corner.
            The American government did not recognize the title, as held by the French and
                    the Wabash Land Company, as sufficient, and proceeded to recognize the claims of
                    the Indians. The government proceeded to buy the land from the Indians direct,
                    and the ''
                        Vincennes
                     Tract" being the oldest settled part, was taken under
                    consideration at an early date. Here is where Surveyor Freeman and the Orleans
                    corner come in. The description of the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract" is obtained through an
                    "exception" made in the Indian treaty of October 18, 1775.5 Surveyor Freeman was called upon, in the summer and fall
                    of 1802, to survey the "
                        Vincennes
                     Exception," which has since become known as the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract."
            In the survey the Freeman corner in Section 19 is shown to be 60 miles from the
                        Wabash river, and in Freeman's day he wrote
                    concerning the corner, "very rich level land, timber very large, black
                    oak, hickory, sugar," etc." In making the survey many
                    notations were made; for example, in the survey of the south line he says he
                    started from the mouth of White river on Sunday. In his
                    record of this survey he says that at 32 miles and 41 chains from the 
                        Wabash
                     he crossed an Indian trail. The south line is 59 miles long.
            To get a practical idea of what part of Indiana the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract" embraced, take a large map of Indiana and draw a
                    line from Point Coupee, on the Wabash river, to the Freeman
                    Corner, 
                  
                     5 Dillon's History of
                                Indiana, 105, 106, 107, 108 and 109.
                  
                     6 Surveyor's book marked
                            "Indiana," 28, State Auditor's Office; Plat
                            Book No. 1, "Records of Surveys," State
                            Auditor's Office, 120.
               
                     at Orleans. Then take a
                    carpenter's square, place one blade at the mouth of White
                        river, the other at 
                        Orleans
                    , and the corner south of the line between Dubois and Crawford
                    counties. Draw a line around the blades. That part within the lines thus denned
                    represents the 
                        Vincennes
                     Tract, which Surveyor Thomas Freeman was employed to survey.7
            
            The Freeman Corner, near Orleans, is a corner of three Indian concessions. Extend
                    a line from this corner to the county line between 
                        Ripley
                     and 
                        Decatur
                     counties and you have located an Indian treaty line. The land of
                    the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract," which Freeman surveyed, was acquired by the 
                        United States
                     June 7, 1803; the land immediately east of the Freeman Corner, at 
                        Orleans
                    , was acquired by the treaty of Grouseland, August 21, 1805, and the
                    land immediately north of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Tract was acquired by the treaty of Ft. Wayne, September 30, 1809.
                    In making these Indian treaties General William Henry Harrison was the leading
                    agent for the general government.8
            
            After the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract" had been acquired by the extinction of the Indian
                    title, the land was subdivided by government surveyors. Their contracts usually
                    ran by ranges–tracts six miles wide, running from the south side to
                    the north side of the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract." In their survey records they recorded the location
                    of the Freeman lines, with reference to the last section corners, because these
                    lines bounded their surveys.
            On October 15, 1804, Tupper and Stone surveyed into sections that part of the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract" which lies in the extreme east and around the
                    Freeman Corner, and up to the meridian line. The sections just east of the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract" and around the Freeman Comer were surveyed by
                    Arthur Henri, June 1, 1806; the same surveyor laid out the sections north of the
                    Freeman Corner under a contract dated November 10, 1810. Thus the sections just
                    west of the meridian line, in the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract," were the first to be surveyed. They were laid out
                    about two years after the Freeman Corner was established.9
                    The second principal meridian line passed within a half mile of the Freeman
                    Corner. In 
                  
                     7 State Geologist's
                            Report, 1882; Bsarey's History of
                            Indiana, 345; Wilson's History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                     , 88; Wilson's Wall Map of 
                                Dubois County
                            ; Records of Indian Treaty Lines; Miscellaneous Record No.
                            1, State Auditor's Office; Cockrum's Pioneer History, 242.
                  
                     8 Cockrum's History of
                                Indiana, 241.
                  
                     9
                            State Geologist's Report, 1882.
               
                     the surveys made by these surveyors, the
                    Freeman Corner was fairly well tied to the section lines and corners by recorded
                    measurements. However, it is surprising that some stone monument was not put at
                    the corner by the surveyors.
            By a system of interpolation, without the use of solar instruments, and without
                    ever being- at the corner, my calculations indicate that the Freeman Corner, at 
                        Orleans
                    , coincides with 86 degrees, 27.5 minutes west of 
                        Greenwich
                    , 
                        England
                    , and 38 degrees and 40.5 minutes north latitude.
            From a standpoint of historical association the two Freeman Corners in Indiana
                    deserve recognition, really more than state wide, because the other two corners
                    are in 
                        Illinois
                    .
            The Freeman Corners in Indiana are excellent subjects for centennial markers, or
                    monuments. The monument near Orleans might be constructed so as to face the
                    three Indian concessions. On the side facing the southwest these words could
                    appear:
            "THIS INSCRIPTION FACES THE VINCENNES TRACT ACQUIRED FROM THE INDIANS
                    BY TREATY, JUNE 7, 1803."
            On the side facing the southeast these words could appear:
            "THIS INSCRIPTION FACES THE LAND ACQUIRED FROM THE INDIANS BY TREATY
                    OF GROUSELAND, AUGUST 21,
                    1805."
            On the side facing the north these words could appear:
            "THIS INSCRIPTION FACES THE LAND ACQUIRED FROM THE INDIANS BY TREATY
                    OF FT. WAYNE, SEPTEMBER 30, 1809.''
            The words "Freeman Corner" and any other inscription desired
                    should also appear, to the end that the monument will, in a large measure,
                    explain itself.
            Arthur Henri, a government surveyor, also surveyed the Indian treaty line running
                    from the Freeman Corner, near Orleans, to near 
                        Brookville
                    . This is the north boundary of the Grouseland Purchase. It was
                    surveyer in July and August. 1806. Surveyor Henri began at the Freeman Corner
                    and ran a random line at north 65 degrees east, intending to strike the
                    Greenville Indian treaty boundary line 50 miles from the mouth of the 
                        Kentucky
                    
                     river. He struck the said Indian treaty line
                    15 miles and 77 chains too far south.
            He then began at a point 50 miles north of the mouth of 
                        Kentucky
                    
                    
                  EARLIEST sURVEYS
                            IN INDIANA
                  
                river, (near 
                        Brookville
                    , Indiana), and ran back to the Freeman Corner, which he missed by
                    running south. From this second line he corrected back to the Fort Recovery line
                    running at north about 57 degrees east.
            The distance from the Freeman Corner to a point 50 miles  north of the Ohio river on the
                    Fort Recovery line is 89 miles and 45.5 chains. The course from the Freeman
                    Corner was north about 57 degrees east, at the time of Henri's
                    survey, 1806. At the time this survey was made the magnetic variation at the
                    Freeman Corner was 6 degrees and 25 minutes east.10
            
            The west line of 
                        Dearborn county
                     is the Greenville treaty line. It was surveyed in 1798 by 
                        Israel
                     Ludlow.
            It ran from the mouth of the Kentucky river to Fort
                    Recovery, 
                        Ohio
                    , about 15 miles east of 
                        Portland
                    , Ind. The Grouseland treaty line ran from the Freeman Corner, in 
                        Orange county
                    , to a point on the Greenville treaty line, near 
                        Brookville
                    . The line between 
                        Decatur
                     and 
                        Ripley
                     counties is the Grouseland treaty line, surveyed by Arthur Flenri.
                    The northeast Freeman Corner is 57 miles east of 
                        Vincennes
                    . The court house at 
                        Vincennes
                     is about 38 degrees and 41 minutes north latitude.11
            
            The southeast Freeman Corner of the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract" is in a creek in 
                        Perry county
                    , and at a place almost inaccessible by ordinary means of travel. It
                    is south of the northeast corner of the southeast quarter of section 25,
                    township 4 south, of range 3 west, on the line between ranges 2 and 3. It is on
                    the lands of Thomas J. Lanman and John B. Jones.12
            
            The record Freeman left of his survey is not altogether dry reading to students
                    of pioneer conditions in Indiana. His record begins:
            "Crossed the 
                        Wabash
                     July 21st (1802), and proceeded from 
                        Vincennes
                     with my little party for Point Coupee; arrived next day, 12
                    o'clock, very weak and unwell, Sunday (July 22, 1802), determined the
                    width of river mid took courses, etc."
            His record describes the land, timber, streams, etc., in units of one mile. Line
                    trees were marked and recorded, but in this his records are not so complete as
                    one would wish. He paid more attention to topography than he appears to have
                    done to witness trees. He writes of "handsome prairies,"
                    "wavy land," "scrubby pieces of woods,"
                    "bushy barrens," "tough, wet, clay soil,"
                    etc.
            In 1802 he found a coal mine, on the south line, at thirty-seven 
                  
                     10 Miscellaneous Record–Indiana, 55 to
                            67, State Auditor's Office.
                  
                     11 Dillon's History of
                                Indiana, 419; Esarey's History of
                                Indiana, 132, 340 and 342.
                  
                     12 Minto's Map of 
                                Perry County
                            , 1894.
               
                     miles from the mouth of White
                        river, near the corner of 
                  Pike, Warrick
                and
                    Dubois counties.
            Freeman's record shows that he started to run the northeast line
                    February 8, 1803, but "lay bye" until February 14, 1803, on
                    account of bad weather. At six miles from Point Coupee he found a "crab
                    orchard;" at thirty-eight miles he found an Indian trail; at forty-two
                    miles he found mineral springs (perhaps Trinity Springs).
            When he ran south 12 degrees west, on the east line he found the bed of a dry
                    creek at eight miles. Twelve miles from the Orleans corner he records the
                    "Trace to 
                        Cincinnati
                    ," and at fourteen miles he was on the "side of
                    hill, above 
                        Louisville
                     Trace, (i. e., "Buffalo Trace") and a few paces
                    from a large cave."1'"' On Saturday, September 17, 1803, he
                    began the survey of the settlement around 
                        Carlisle
                    , in 
                        Sullivan county
                    . Freeman was employed nearly two years in this survey.14
            
            Another interesting side, light on the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract" is found in the survey of the old "Buffalo
                    Trace" from it to "Clark's Grant."
            The "Clark's Grant" land survey bears date of 1785.
                    There is a treaty line running south 73 degrees and 30 minutes east from a point
                    on the east line of the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract" to the west line of the
                    "Clark's Grant," a distance of 40 miles and 42
                    chains. This line was surveyed by William Rector. The land south and west of
                    this line was bought of the Indians by treaties dated at 
                        Vincennes
                    , August 18 and 27, 1804. The line above referred to is practically
                    the old "
                        Vincennes
                    " or "Buffalo Trace." Its various courses
                    and distances were surveyed, July 11, 1805, by William Rector.15 Trees along this line were marked, "To C. G. 2 mi.,"
                    "To C. G. 33 mi.," etc., meaning the distance the particular
                    tree was from "Clark's Grant." The survey began
                    from "Clark's Grant" and went a general northwest
                    course to the east line of the Freeman survey. The survey noted the locations of
                    cabins, springs, etc., along the trace.10 At 43 miles and 7
                    chains from "Clark's Grant," Surveyor Rector
                    records a "whetstone cave." The meanderings of the
                    "Buffalo Trace" make the distance 43 miles and 28 chains. At
                    the end of the survey, and on the east line of the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract," Surveyor Rector marked a beech tree 12 
                  
                     13 Miscellaneous Record–Indiana, 29.
                  
                     14 Miscellaneous Record–Indiana, 33.
                            See Rector's mention of a "whetstone cave."
                  
                     15 Miscellaneous Record–Indiana, page
                            37, State Auditor's Office.
                  
                     16 Miscellaneous Record–Indiana,
                        39.
               
                     inches in diameter, "To C. G. 43
                    miles and 28 chains." He completed the survey, July 16, 1805. The
                    magnetic variation at that time was 5 degrees and 15 minutes east.17 This old line is now recognized as the old 
                        New Albany
                     and Paoli pike.
            In those days land was not valuable, and the surveys were not made with the same
                    care as surveys are made today, yet the work done by the old surveyors, like
                    Freeman, Henri, Rector, Buckingham, Sanford and others, served a noble purpose
                    in the development of Indiana.
            On October 27, 1795, a treaty was made between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Spain
                    , defining the boundaries of the respective countries in the south
                    and west, about 
                        Florida
                    , and at thirty-one degrees of north latitude on the 
                        Mississippi
                    , etc. (The north line of 
                        Florida
                    .) The treaty was ratified March 3, 1796, and on May 24, 1796,
                    Thomas Freeman was appointed surveyor, on the part of the 
                        United States
                    , for the purpose of running the boundary line mentioned in said
                    treaty. It thus appears that Thomas Freeman must have been a surveyor who
                    enjoyed the confidence of his country, and had had unusual experience before he
                    came to Indiana.18
            
            The Spanish claim to America, the French settlement at 
                        Vincennes
                    , how the English took it from the French, and how General Clark
                    captured 
                        Vincennes
                     from the English and secured the territory northwest of the
                        Ohio river for 
                        Virginia
                    , and finally how 
                        Virginia
                     ceded it to the general government of the 
                        United States
                    , are understood by practically all Americans who have read the
                    history of their native land, but the details of the treaties with the Indians,
                    the real owners of the land, and the first survey of the land thus obtained are
                    not so well known.
            Many of us know the fee simple title to our lands from the 
                        United States
                     down. This article may assist us to know how the general government
                    obtained it.
            What is known as the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract" seems to have had the first white title in southern
                    Indiana. Just how this title was acquired and what was paid for it may never be
                    known. It was held for years before the treaty of 
                        Greenville
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , by white settlers and acknowledged by the Indians by that treaty
                    to be the 
                  
                     17 Miscellaneous Record–Indiana, 46,
                            State Auditor's Office. See Freeman's mention of a
                            large cave.
                  
                     18 Dillon's History of
                                Indiana, 378 and 379.
               
                     property of white men. That there was a
                    white title to the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract" is evidenced by a deed dated October 18, 1775, and
                    conveying land north and south of it to the Wabash Land Company.19
            
            A second tract of land in southern Indiana that had been acquired by white
                    settlers was at 
                        Clarksville
                    , near Jefrersonville, and the "
                        Illinois
                     Grant," now generally known as
                    "Clark's Grant." "Clark's
                    Grant" was surveyed by William Clark in 1786. It was named in honor of
                    General George Rogers Clark, the hero of 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            "In the month of July, 1779, two Piankeshaw chiefs,
                    Tabac and Grand Cornette. by deed conveyed to George Rogers Clark a tract of
                    land two and a half leagues square, lying on the northwestern side of the 
                        Ohio
                     opposite the falls of that river. 
                        Virginia
                     never confirmed this purchase. because the constitution of that
                    state, which was formed in May. 1770. declared that no purchase of lands should
                    be made of the Indian natives, but on behalf of the public, by the authority of
                    the General Assembly. By an act of the 2nd of January, 1781, the General
                    Assembly of 
                        Virginia
                     resolved that, on certain conditions, they would cede to Congress,
                    for the benefit of the 
                        United States
                    , all the right, title and claim which 
                        Virginia
                     had to the territory northwest of the river
                    Ohio. Congress, by an act of the 13th of September. 1788, agreed to
                    accept the cession of the territory; and the General Assembly of 
                        Virginia
                    , on the 20th of December, 1783. passed an act authorizing their
                    delegates in Congress to convey to the 
                        United States
                    , the right, title and claim of 
                        Virginia
                     to the lands northwest of the river Ohio.
            "In October, 1783, the General Assembly of 
                        Virginia
                     passed an act for laying off the town of Clarksville, at the falls
                    of the 
                        Ohio
                    , in the county of 
                        Illinois
                    . The act provided that the lots, of half an acre each. should be
                    sold at public auction for the best price that could be had. The purchasers
                    respectively were to hold their lots subject to the condition of building on
                    each, within three years from the day of sale, a dwelling house
                    'twenty feet by eighteen, at least, with a brick or stone
                    chimney.' William Fleming, John Edwards, John Campbell. Walker
                    Daniel, George R. Clark. Abraham Chaplin. John Montgomery, John Bailey. Robert
                    Todd and William Clark, were, by the act of the Assembly, constituted trustees
                    of the town of Clarksville."20
            On March 1, 1784, Thomas Jefferson, Samuel Hardy, Arthur Lee and James Monroe,
                    delegates in Congress on the part of 
                        Virginia
                    , executed a deed of cession by which they transferred to the 
                  
                     19Dillon Historical Notes of the
                                Northwestern Territory, 119, 123; Dillon History
                                of Indiana 105, 402, 403. (White river was
                            called "Blanche River" by the
                            French.)
                  
                     20Dillon Historical Notes of the
                                Northwestern Territory, 196, 197; Hening's Statutes, Volume II, pages 235-257, 309,
                            335-337.
               
                    
                    
                        United States
                    , on certain conditions, all claim of 
                        Virginia
                     to the country northwest of the river Ohio.
                    Among the conditions was this one:
            "That a quantity not exceeding one hundred and fifty thousand acres of
                    land, promised by 
                        Virginia
                    , shall be allowed and granted to the then colonel, now General
                    George Rogers Clark, and to the officers and soldiers of his regiment, who
                    marched with him when the posts of 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                     were reduced, and to the officers and soldiers that have been since
                    incorporated into the said regiment, to be laid off in one tract, the length of
                    which not to exceed double the breadth, in such place on the northwest side of
                    the 
                        Ohio
                    , as a majority of the officers shall choose, and to be afterwards
                    divided among1 the officers and soldiers in due proportion,
                    according to the laws of 
                        Virginia
                    ."
            This reservation was laid off on the borders of the Ohio
                    river, adjacent to the falls, in 1786, and was then called the "
                        Illinois
                     Grant." Of this tract the private soldier received 200
                    acres, noncommissioned officer 400 acres, captain 4,000 acres.21
            
            The Indians conceded "Clark's Grant" to the white
                    men in Article IV, of the Greenville Treaty. In that treaty it is enumerated
                    as–"'First. The tract of one hundred and fifty
                    thousand acres near the rapids of the river Ohio, which has
                    been assigned to General Clark for the use of himself and his
                        warriors."22
            
            By a treaty made at 
                        Greenville
                    ,23 on August 3, 1795, the 
                        United States
                     acquired a title to the "gore" of Indiana, being
                    that part of Indiana east of the Greenville Treaty Line, and acknowledged that
                    the Indians held a title to certain lands west of the Greenville Treaty Line,
                    which ran in a northerly direction from the mouth of the Kentucky
                        river, and along the west line of 
                        Dearborn county
                    , but in so doing, excepted: "Second. The post of 
                        St. Vincennes
                    , on the river Wabash and the lands adjacent,
                    of which the Indian title has been extinguished."24
                    This intended to except the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract," and in a way shows there must have been some older
                    French and Indian treaty, as was implied in the deed to the Wabash Land Company,
                    the copy of which was lost.
            The description of the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract" in the Greenville Treaty proved to be too vague,
                    and to make it definite this "Exception No. 2" became the
                    subject for consideration at another treaty. It seems that Thomas Freeman took
                    the description in the Wabash Land Company's deed as a guide, and, by
                    a survey, produced a 
                  
                     21Dillon Historical Notes of the
                                Northwestern Territory, 197, 198.
                  
                     22Dillon Historical Notes of the
                                Northwestern Territory, 453.
                  
                     23Dillon Historical Notes of the
                                Northwestern Territory, 451.
               
                     more definite description which was used
                    when a new treaty was made at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . A copy of the final treaty at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , June 7, 1803, follows :25
            
            "Articles of a treaty made at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , on the Miami of the Lake, between William Henry Harrison, governor
                    of the Indiana territory, superintendent of Indian affairs, and commissioner
                    plenipotentiary of the 
                        United States
                     for concluding any treaty or treaties which may be found necessary,
                    with any of the Indian tribes northwest of the 
                        Ohio
                    , of the one part, and the tribes of Indians called the Delawares,
                    Shawanees, Pattawatimas, Miamis and Kickapoos, by their chiefs and head
                    warriors, and those of the Eel Rivers, Weas, Piankeshaws and Kaskaskias, by
                    their agents and representatives, Tuthinipee, Winnemac, Richeville and Little
                    Turtle, (who are properly authorized by the said tribes) of the other part.
            "Art. I. Whereas. It is declared by the fourth article
                    of the Treaty of Greenville, that the 
                        United States
                     reserve for their use the post of 
                        Vincennes
                    , and all the lands adjacent, to which the Indian titles had been
                    extinguished. And whereas, It has been found difficult to
                    determine the precise limits of the said tract as held by the French and British
                    governments; it is hereby agreed, that the boundaries of the said tract shall be
                    as follows: Beginning at Point Coupee, on the 
                        Wabash
                    , and running thence by a line north seventy-eight degrees west,
                    twelve miles, thence by a line parallel to the general course of the 
                        Wabash
                     until it shall be intersected by a line at right angles to the
                    same, passing through the mouth of White river, thence by
                    the last mentioned line across the 
                        Wabash
                     and toward the 
                        Ohio
                    , seventy-two miles, thence by a line north twelve west [east],
                    until it shall be Intersected by a line at right angles to the same, passing
                    through Point Coupee, and by the last mentioned line to the place of beginning.
            "Art. II. The 
                        United States
                     hereby relinquish all claim which they may have had to any lands
                    adjoining to, or in the neighborhood of the tract above described.
            "Art. III. As a mark of their regard and attachment to the 
                        United States
                    , whom they acknowledged for their only friends and protectors, and
                    for the consideration hereinafter mentioned, the said tribes do hereby
                    relinquish and cede to the 
                        United States
                     the great salt spring upon the Saline creek, which falls into the 
                        Ohio
                     below the mouth of the 
                        Wabash
                    , with a quantity of land surrounding it, not exceeding four miles
                    square. and which may be laid off in a square or oblong, as the one or the other
                    may be found most convenient to the 
                        United States
                    ; and the said 
                        United States
                     being desirous that the Indian tribes should participate in the
                    benefits to be derived from the said spring. hereby engage to deliver yearly,
                    and every year, for the use of the said Indians, a quantity of salt, not
                    exceeding one hundred and fifty bushels, 
                  
                     24 Mss. 49062 Indiana State Library, 52.
                  
                     25 Mss. 49062 Indiana State Library, 57-60.
               
                     and which shall be divided among the several
                    tribes in such manner as the general council of the chiefs may determine.
            "Art. IV. For the considerations before mentioned, and for the
                    convenience which the said tribes will themselves derive from such
                    establishments, it is hereby agreed, that as soon as the tribes called the
                    Kickapoos, Eel Rivers, Weas, Piankeshaws and Kaskaskias, shall give their
                    consent to the measure, the 
                        United States
                     shall have the right of locating three tracts of land (of such size
                    as may be agreed upon with the last mentioned tribes) on the main road between 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , and one other between 
                        Vincennes
                     and Clarksville, for the purpose of erecting houses of
                    entertainment, for the accommodation of travelers. But it is expressly
                    understood, that if the said locations are made on any of the rivers which cross
                    the said road, and ferries should be established on the same, that in times of
                    high water any Indian or Indians, belonging to either of the tribes who are
                    parties to the treaty, shall have the privilege of crossing such ferry toll
                    free. [A copy of I his agreement hereinafter follows.]
            "Art. V. Whereas, there is reason to believe, that if
                    the boundary lines of the tract described in the first article should run in the
                    manner therein directed, that some of the settlements and locations of land,
                    made by the citizens of the 
                        United States
                    , will fall in the Indian country; it is hereby agreed, that such
                    alterations shall be made in the direction of these lines, as will include them,
                    and a quantity of land, equal in quantity to what may lie thus taken, shall be
                    given to the said tribes. either at the east or the west end of the tract.20
            "In testimony whereof, the commissioner of the 
                        United States
                    , and the chiefs and warriors of the Delawares. Shawanees.
                    Pattawatimas, Miamis and Kiekapoos, and those of the Eel Rivers, Weas,
                    Piankeshaws and Kaskaskias. by their agents and representatives, Tuthiuipee.
                    Winnemac, Richeville and the Little Turtle, who are properly authorized by the
                    said tribes, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals, at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , this seventh day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand
                    eight hundred and three, and of the independence of the 
                        United States
                     the twenty-seventh.
            
               
                  WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON.
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  (Miamis.)
                  
               
               
                  RICHERVILLE (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  MESHEKUNNOGHQUOH, or Little Turtle (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  On behalf of themselves, Eel Rivers, Weas, Piankeshaws and Kaskaskias,
                            whom they represent.
                  
               
               
                  (Kickapoos.)
                  
               
               
                  NEHMEHTOHAN, or Standing (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  PASHSHEWEHAH, or Cat (his X mark)
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  (Shawanees.)
                  
               
               
                  NEAHMEMSIEEH (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
            
            
               
                  26For example, see 
                            Carlisle
                        , 
                            Sullivan county
                        . Senate Document, Volume 39, pages 64 and
                    65.
            
            
            
               
                  (Pattawatimas.)
                  
               
               
                  TUTHINIPEE (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  WINNEMAC (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  On behalf of the Pattawatimas and Eel Rivers. Weas, Piankeshaws and
                            Kaskaskias, whom they represent.
                  
               
               
                  WANNANGSEA, or Five Medals (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  KEESAAS, or Sun (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  (Del a wares.)
                  
               
               
                  TETA BUXIKE (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  BUKONGEHELAS (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  HOCKINGPOMSKERM (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  KECHKAWHANUND (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  (Shawanees.)
                  
               
               
                  CUTHEWEKASAW, or Black Hook (his X mark)
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  METHAWNASICE (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
            
            Signed, sealed and delivered in the presence of John Rice Jones. secretary to the
                    commissioner: John Gibson, secretary Indiana territory: Thomas Pasteur, captain
                    first regiment infantry: William Wells, interpreter; John Johnson. 
                        United States
                     factor: Hendrick Aupaumut, chief of Muhhecon; Thomas Freeman.
            "The proceedings at the within treaty were faithfully interpreted by us.
                    John Gibson and William Wells; that is, for the Delawares. John Gibson, and for
                    the rest of the tribes. William Wells.
            "JOHN GIBSON. "WILLIAM WELLS."
            The agreement mentioned in the foregoing- treaty:
            "At a council holden at 
                        Vincennes
                    . on the 7th day of August. 1803,under the direction of William
                    Henry Harrison, governor of the Indiana territory, at which were present the
                    chiefs and warriors of the Eel Rivers, Wyandott. Piankeshaw and 
                        Kaskaskia
                     nations, and also the tribe of the Kickapoos, by their
                    representatives, the chiefs of the Eel River nation.
            "The fourth article of the treaty holden and concluded at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , on the 7th of June. 1803, being considered, the chiefs and
                    warriors of the said nations give their free and full consent to the same. and
                    they do hereby relinquish and confirm to the 
                        United States
                     the privilege and right of locating three several tracts of land of
                    one mile square each, on the road leading from Vineennes to 
                        Kaskaskia
                    . and also one other tract of land one mile square on the road
                    leading from Vineennes to Clarksville, [Buffalo Trace] which locations shall be
                    made in such places on the aforesaid roads, as shall best comport with the
                    convenience and interests of the 
                        United States
                     in the establishment of houses of entertainment for the
                    accommodation of travelers.
            "In witness whereof, the said William Henry Harrison, and the said
                    chiefs and warriors of the before mentioned nations and tribe of Indians,  have hereunto set their hands and affixed
                    their seals, the day and year first above written.
            
               
                  WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON.
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  KA TUNGA, or Charly (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  AKA KETA, or Ploughman (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  GROS BLED, or Big Corn (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  BLACK DOG (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  PUPPEQXQR, or Gum (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  LA BOUSSIER (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  DUCOIGNEI (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  PEDAGOGUE (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  SACONQUANEVA, or Tired Legs (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  LITTLE EYES (his X mark)
                  (Seal)
               
            
            Signed, sealed and delivered in the presence of us.
            JOHN RICE JONES B. PARKE JOSEPH BARRON, Interpreter."27
            
            The McDonalds settled in 
                        Dubois county
                    , cleared land, and built a cabin on the 
                        Vincennes
                     and Clarksville road before this treaty was signed, and before the
                    survey of the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract," which this treaty covers, was made.
            It will be noticed that the Buffalo Trace passed from near 
                        Vincennes
                     toward 
                        Louisville
                    , almost in the center of the tract conveyed by this treaty, thus
                    giving a line of travel through the center of the purchase.
            The Treaty of Greenville, made August 3, 1795, contained this provision:
            "And whenever the 
                        United States
                     shall think proper to survey and mark the boundaries of the lands
                    hereby ceded to them, they shall give timely notice thereof to the said tribes
                    of Indians, that they may appoint some of their wise chiefs to attend and see
                    that the lines are run according to the terms of the treaty."28
            
            The 
                        Fort Wayne
                     treaty is known in the American State Papers as No. 104, and was
                    communicated to the Senate, October 31, 1803, by President Thomas Jefferson.
            The possession of the Buffalo Trace was a valuable asset to the settlements in
                    the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract." With that end in view additional territory was
                    purchased from the Indians.
            On November 15, 1804, Thomas Jefferson communicated to the Senate a treaty made
                    with the Delawares and Piankeshaws, August 
                  
                     27,Mss. 49062 Indiana State Library, 60; American State Papers, Indian Affairs, Volume 1, page
                            688.
                  
                     28Article III, of the Greenville treaty; Dillon
                                Historical Notes of the Northwestern Territory,
                            451-456; Mss. 49062 Indiana State Library.
               
                     18, 1804, and also one made with the
                    Piankeshaws, August 27, 1804. These two treaties made at 
                        Vincennes
                    , August 18, 1804, are known as No. 105 in the American State
                    Papers. A copy follows :31
            
            "The 
                        Delaware
                     tribe of Indians, finding that the annuity which they receive, from
                    the 
                        United States
                     is not sufficient to supply them with the articles which are
                    necessary for their comfort and convenience, and afford the means of introducing
                    amongst them the arts of civilized life; and being convinced that the
                    extensiveness of the country they possess, by giving an opportunity to their
                    hunting parties to ramble to a great distance from their towns, is the principal
                    means of retarding this desirable event; and the 
                        United States
                     being desirous to connect their settlements on the 
                        Wabash
                     with the state of 
                        Kentucky
                    :
            "Therefore, the 
                        United States
                    , by William Henry Harrison, governor of the Indiana territory, and
                    the said tribe of Indians, by their sachems, chiefs and head warriors, have
                    agreed to the following articles, which. when ratified by the President of the 
                        United States
                    , by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall be binding
                    on the said parties.
            "Art. I. The said 
                        Delaware
                     tribe, for the considerations hereinafter mentioned, relinquishes
                    to the 
                        United States
                    , forever, all their rights and title to the tract of country which
                    lies between the 
                        Ohio
                     and Wabash rivers, and below the tract ceded
                    by the Treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , [
                        Vincennes
                     Tract 1 and the road leading from 
                        Vincennes
                     to the falls of 
                        Ohio
                    .
            "Art. II. The said tribe shall receive from the 
                        United States
                    , for ten years, an additional annuity of three hundred dollars,
                    which is to be exclusively appropriated to the purpose of ameliorating their
                    condition, and promoting their civilization. Suitable persons shall be employed
                    at the expense of the 
                        United States
                    , to teach them to make fences, cultivate the earth, and such of the
                    domestic arts as are adapted to their situation: and a further sum of three
                    hundred dollars shall be appropriated. annually, for five years, to this object.
                    The 
                        United States
                     will cause to be delivered to them, in the course of the next
                    spring, horses fit for draught, cattle, hogs and implements of husbandry, to the
                    amount of four hundred dollars. The preceding stipulations, together with goods
                    to the amount of eight hundred dollars, which is now delivered to the said tribe
                    (a part of which is to be appropriated to the satisfying certain individuals of
                    the said tribe, whose horses have been taken by white-people) is to be
                    considered as full compensation for the relinquishment made in the first
                    article.
            "Art. III. As there is great reason to believe that there are now in the
                    possession of the said tribe several horses, which have been stolen from
                    citizens of the 
                        United States
                    , the chiefs who represent the said tribe are to use their utmost
                    endeavor to have the said horses forthwith delivered to the Superintendent of
                    Indian Affairs, or such persons as he may appoint to receive them. And, as the 
                        United States
                     can place the utmost reliance on the honor and integrity of those
                    chiefs who have manifested 
                  
                     31
                     Indian Affairs, I, 689,
                        690.
               
                     a punctilious regard to the engagements
                    entered into at the Treaty of Greenville, it is agreed that, in relation to such
                    of the horses stolen as aforesaid, but which have died or been removed beyond
                    the reach of the chiefs, the 
                        United States
                     will compensate the owners for the loss of them, without deducting
                    from the annuity of the said tribe the amount. of what may be paid in this way.
                    But it is expressly understood that this provision is not to extend to any
                    horses which have been stolen within the course of twelve months preceding the
                    date hereof.
            "Art. IV. The said tribe having exhibited to the above-named
                    commissioner of the 
                        United States
                    , sufficient proof of their right to all the country which lies
                    between the 
                        Ohio
                     and White river; and the Miami tribe, who were
                    the original proprietors of the upper part of that country, having
                    explicit}' acknowledged the title of the Delawares, at the general
                    council held at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , in the month of June, 1803, the said 
                        United States
                     will, in future, consider the Delawares as the rightful owners of
                    all the country which is bounded by the White river, on the
                    north, the 
                        Ohio
                     on the south, the general boundary line running from the mouth of
                    the Kentucky river, on the east, and the tract ceded by
                    this treaty and that ceded by the Treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , on the west and southwest.
            ''Art. V. As the Piankeshaw tribe have hitherto obstinately
                    persisted in refusing to recognize the title of the Delawares to the tract of
                    country ceded by this treaty, the 
                        United States
                     will negotiate with them, and will endeavor to settle the matter in
                    an amicable way; but, should they reject the propositions that may be made to
                    them on this subject, and should the 
                        United States
                     not think proper to take possession of the said country without
                    their consent, the stipulations and promises herein made, on behalf of the 
                        United States
                    , shall be null and void.
            "Art. VI. As the road from 
                        Vincennes
                     to Clark's grant will form a very inconvenient boundary,
                    and as it is the intention of the parties to these presents, that the whole of
                    the said road shall be within the tract ceded to the 
                        United States
                    , it is agreed, that the boundary in that quarter, shall be a
                    straight line, to be drawn parallel to the course of the said road, from the
                    eastern boundary of the tract ceded by the treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , to Clark's grant, but the said line is not to pass at a
                    greater distance than half a mile from the most northerly bend of said road.
            "In witness whereof, the commissioner plenipotentiary of the 
                        United States
                    , and the chiefs and head-men of the said tribe, have hereunto set
                    their hands and affixed their seals.
            "Done at 
                        Vincennes
                    , August 18, 1804. and of the independence of the 
                        United States
                     the twenty-ninth.32
            
            
               
                  WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  TETA BUXICA (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  BOKONGEHELAS (his X mark).
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  ALIMEE, or Geo. White Eyes (his X mark)
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  HOCKING POMSKANN (his X mark)
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  TOMAGUEE, or the Beaver (his X mark)
                  (Seal)
               
            
            
               
                  32
                        American State Papers, Indian Affairs, II, 689, 690; Senate Documents, Vol. 39, 70-72.
            
            
            ''Signed, sealed, and delivered in the presence of John
                    Gibson, secretary to the commissioner; Henry Vanderburg, judge of Indiana
                    territory; Vigo, colonel of 
                        Knox county
                    , L. T. Militia; B. Parke, attorney-general of the Indiana
                    Territory; John Rice Jones, of Indiana territory; Robert Buntin, prothonotary of 
                        Knox county
                    , Indiana territory; Geo. Wallace, Jr., of Indiana territory;
                    Antonine Ma rebel, of I. T.; Joseph Barron, interpreter; Edward Hempstead,
                    attorney at law.
            "I hereby certify that each aud every article of the foregoing treaty
                    was carefully explained and precisely interpreted by me, to the 
                        Delaware
                     chiefs, who have signed the same.
            JOHN GIBSON."
            The Piankeshaw Treaty, which is realty a continuation of the foregoing, follows:
            "A treaty between the 
                        United States
                     of America and the Piankeshaw tribe of Indians, concluded at 
                        Vincennes
                    , August 24, 1804.
            "The President of the 
                        United States
                    , by William Henry Harrison, Governor of the Indiana territory, and
                    the chiefs and head-men of the Piankeshaw tribe, have agreed to the following
                    articles; which, when ratified by the President of the 
                        United States
                    , by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall be binding
                    upon the. said parties.
            "Article I. The Piankeshaw tribe relinquishes and cedes to the 
                        United States
                     forever, all that tract of country which lies between the 
                        Ohio
                     and the Wabash rivers, and below
                    'Clark's Grant' and the tract called the '
                        Vincennes
                     Tract,' which was ceded by the Treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . and a line connecting the said tract and grant, to be drawn
                    parallel to the general course of the road leading from 
                        Vincennes
                     to the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    , so as not to pass more than half a mile to the northward of the
                    most northerly bend of the said road.
            "Art. II. The Piankeshaw tribe acknowledges explicity the right of the 
                        Kaskaskia
                     tribe to sell the country which they have lately ceded to the 
                        United States
                    , and which is separated from the lands of the Piankeshaws by the
                    ridge of highland which divides the waters of the 
                        Wabash
                     from the waters of the Saline creek; and by that which divides the
                    waters of the said 
                        Wabash
                     from those which flow into the Au-Vase and other branches of the 
                        Mississippi
                    .
            "Art. III. An additional annuity, of two hundred dollars, shall be paid
                    by the 
                        United States
                     to the said tribe, for ten years, in money, merchandise,
                    provisions, or domestic animals, and implements of husbandry. at the option of
                    the said tribe; and this annuity, together with goods to the value of seven
                    hundred dollars, which are now delivered to them by the commissioner of the 
                        United States
                    , is considered as a full compensation for the above mentioned
                    relinquishment.
            "Art. IV. The 
                        United States
                     reserves to themselves the right of dividing the whole annuity,
                    which they pay to the said tribe, amongst the families which compose the same;
                    allowing, always, a due proportion for the chiefs. And the said chiefs, whenever
                    the President of the United  States may
                    require it, shall, upon proper notice being given, assemble their tribe for the
                    purpose of effecting this arrangement.
            "In witness whereof, the commissioner plenipotentiary of the 
                        United States
                    , and the chiefs and head-men of the said tribe, have hereunto set
                    their hands and affixed their seals.
            "Done at 
                        Vincennes
                    , in the Indiana territory, August 27, 1804, and of the independence
                    of the 
                        United States
                     the twenty-ninth.
            
               
                  WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  WABOCHQUINKE, LaGros Bled, or Big Corn (his X mark)
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  SWOKANIA, Trois Fesse, or Three Thighs (his X mark)
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  MAKATEWELAMA, Chien Noir, or Black Dog (his X mark)
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  ALEMOIN, LeChien, or the Dog (his X mark)
                  (Seal)
               
               
                  KEKELANQUAGOH, or Lightning (his X mark)
                  (Seal)
               
            
            "Signed, sealed, and delivered, in the presence of John Gibson,
                    secretary to the commissioner; John Griffin, one of the judges of the Ty. of
                    Indiana : Henry Vanderburg. one of the judges of the Indiana Territory; B.
                    Parke, attorney general of the Ty. of Indiana; William Prince, sheriff of 
                        Knox county
                    . Indiana territory; George Wallace, jun., of the Indiana territory;
                    Peter Jones, of 
                        Knox county
                    , Indiana territory; Edward Hempstead, attorney at law, Indiana
                    territory; Abraham F. Snapp; Joseph Barron, interpreter.
            "I do hereby certify that each and every article of the foregoing treaty
                    was carefully explained and precisely interpreted, by me, to the Piankeshaw
                    chiefs who have signed the same.
            JOSEPH BARRON Interpreter."33
            
            There was an Indian trail leading from 
                        Cincinnati
                     that joined the Buffalo Trace near French Lick in the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract." If the territory through which it passed were
                    acquired it would open up a line of travel between 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    , and entirely shut off the Indians from the Ohio
                    river. That was accomplished by the Treaty of Grouseland.
            It is but a small flight of the imagination to say that the Buffalo Trace from 
                        Vincennes
                     to Clarksville, or 
                        Louisville
                    , was a great religious highway to the Indian, for when French white
                    men came to 
                        Vincennes
                    , they found Indians there worshiping the buffalo as their Manitou,
                    or Great Spirit.34 The Buffalo Trace was a great factor in
                    the settlement of southern Indiana, and the possession of this road and the
                    trail from the Whitewater country early attracted the attention of General
                    Harrison, who therefore negotiated the Treaty of Grouseland, August 21, 1805.
                    (near 
                        Vincennes
                    ):
            "Articles of a treaty made and entered into, at 
                        Grouseland
                    , near 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    
                  
                     33
                            American State Papers, Indian Affairs, II, 690; Senate Documents, Volume 39, pages 72, 73.
                  
                     34 Dillon Historical Notes of the
                                Northwestern Territory, 31, 32.
               
                     in the Indiana territory, by and between
                    William Henry Harrison, governor of said territory, and the tribes of Indians
                    called the Delawares, Pattawatimas, Miamis, Eel Rivers, and Weas, jointly and
                    severally, by their chiefs and head-men, of the other part.
            "Art. I. Whereas, by the fourth article of a treaty made between the 
                        United States
                     and the 
                        Delaware
                     tribe, on August 18, 1804, the said 
                        United States
                     engaged to consider the said Delawares as the proprietors of all
                    that tract of country which is bounded by the White river
                    on the north, the 
                        Ohio
                     and Clark's grant on the south, the general boundary
                    line running from the mouth of Kentucky river on the east,
                    and the tract ceded by the treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and the road leading to Clark's grant on the west and
                    southwest. And whereas the Miami tribe, from whom the Delawares derived their
                    claim, contend that, in their cession of said tract to the Delawares, it was
                    never their intention to convey to them the right of the soil, but to suffer
                    them to occupy it as long as they thought proper, the said Delawares have, for
                    the sake of peace and good neighborhood, determined to relinquish their claim to
                    the said tract, and do, by these presents, release the 
                        United States
                     from the guarantee made in the before-mentioned article of the
                    treaty of August, 1804.
            "Art. II. The said Miami, Eel River, and Wea
                    tribes, cede and relinquish to the 
                        United States
                    , forever, all that tract of country which lies to the south of a
                    line to be drawn from the northeast corner of the tract ceded by the treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , so as to strike the general boundary line, running from a point
                    opposite to the mouth of the Kentucky river to Fort
                    Recovery, at the distance of fifty miles from its commencement on the
                        Ohio river.
            "Art. III. In consideration of the cession made in the preceding
                    article, the 
                        United States
                     will give an additional permanent annuity to said Miamis, Eel
                    Rivers, and Wea tribes, in the following proportions, viz: to the Miamis, six
                    hundred dollars; to the Eel River tribe, two hundred and
                    fifty dollars; to the Weas, two hundred and fifty dollars; and also to the
                    Pattawatimas, an additional annuity of five hundred dollars, for ten years, and
                    no longer; which, together with the sum of four thousand dollars, which is now
                    delivered, the receipt whereof they do hereby acknowledge, is to be considered
                    as a full compensation for the land now ceded.
            "Art. IV. As the tribes which are now called the Miamis, Eel Rivers, and
                    Weas. were formerly, and still considered themselves as one nation, and as they
                    have determined that neither of those tribes shall dispose of any part of the
                    country which they hold in common; in order to quiet their minds on that head,
                    the 
                        United States
                     do hereby engage to consider them as joint owners of all the
                    country on the 
                        Wabash
                     and its waters, above the 
                        Vincennes
                     Tract, and which has not been ceded to the 
                        United States
                     by this or any former treaty; and they do further engage, that they
                    will not purchase any part of the said country, without the consent of each of
                    the said tribes; provided always, that nothing in this section contained. shall
                    in any manner weaken or destroy any claim which the Kickapoos, who are not
                    represented at this treaty, may have to the country they now occupy on the
                        Vermilion river.
            
            "Art. V. The Pattawatimas, Miami, Eel River and Wea
                    tribes, explicitly acknowledge the right of the Delawares to sell the tract of
                    land conveyed to the 
                        United States
                     by the treaty of August 18, 1804, which tract was given by the
                    Piankeshaws to the Delawares about thirty-seven years ago.
            "Art. VI. The annuities herein stipulated to be paid by the 
                        United States
                    , shall be delivered in the same manner, and under the same
                    conditions, as those which the tribes have heretofore received.
            "Art. VII. This treaty shall be in force and obligatory on the
                    contracting parties, as soon as the same shall have been ratified by the
                    President. by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the 
                        United States
                    .
            "In testimony whereof, the said commissioner plenipotentiary of the 
                        United States
                     and the sachems, chiefs, and head-men of the said tribes, have
                    hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals.
            "Done at 
                        Grouseland
                    , near 
                        Vincennes
                    . August 21, 1805, and of the independence of the 
                        United States
                     the thirtieth.
            
               
                  WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON
                  L.S.
               
               
                  Delawares
                  
               
               
                  HOCKING POMSKAN (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  KOCKLAHENUND, or William Anderson (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  ALLIME, or White Eyes (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  TOMAGUE, or Beaver (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  Pattawatimas
                  
               
               
                  TOPANEPEE (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  LISHAHECON (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  WENAMECH (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  Miamis
                  
               
               
                  KAKONWECONNER. or Long Legs (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  MISSINGGUIMSCHAN, or Owl (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  WABSIER, or White Skin (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  MASHEKANOCHQUAH, or Little Turtle (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  RICHARDVILLE (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  Eel Rivers
                  
               
               
                  WAIONECANA, or Night Stander (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  METANSAUNER. or Sam (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  ARCHEKATAUH, or Earth (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  Weas
                  
               
               
                  ASSONNONQUAH, or Labossiere (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  MISQUACONAQUA, or Painted Pole (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  CHEQUANAH, or Little Eyes (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  MISSENEWAND, or Captain Bullet (his X mark)
                  L.S-
               
               
                  Delawares
                  
               
            
            Done in the presence of B. Parke, secretary to the commissioner; John Gibson,
                    secretary Indiana territory; John Griffin, a judge of the Indiana territory; B.
                    Chambers, president of the council; Jesse B. Thomas, speaker of the House of
                    Representatives; John Rice Jones, Saml. Gwathmey. Pierre  Menard, members of the Legislative council, Indiana
                    Territory; Davis Floyd, Shadrach Bond, William Biggs, John Johnson, members of
                    the House of Representatives, Indiana territory; W. Wells, agent of Indian
                    affairs; Vigo, colonel of 
                        Knox county
                     militia.
            JOHN CONNER JOSEPH BARRON, Sworn Interpreters."
            "Additional Article. It is the intention of the contracting parties,
                    that the boundary line herein directed to be run, from the northeast corner of
                    the '
                        Vincennes
                     Tract' [Orleans corner] to the boundary line running
                    from the mouth of the Kentucky river, shall not cross the
                    Embarrass or Driftwood fork of White river; but if it
                    should strike the said fork, such an alteration in the direction of the said
                    line is to be made as will leave the whole of the said fork in the Indian
                    territory."
            The white settlers in the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract" and in the "gore" of Indiana,
                    near 
                        Brookville
                    , felt the Indian territory lines were too near them, so additional
                    land was purchased from the Indians. as evidenced by another 
                        Fort Wayne
                     treaty under date of September 30, 1809, which brings us up to the
                    "New Purchase," and to the end of our task, for it was nine
                    years before other Indian treaties occurred embracing land near southern
                    Indiana.
            "A treaty between the 
                        United States
                     of America, and the tribes of Indians called the Delawares.
                    Pattawatimas. Miamis, and Eel River Miamis.36
            "James Madison, president of the 
                        United States
                    , by William Henry Harrison, governor and commander in chief of the
                    Indiana territory, and the sachems, head-men. and warriors, of the 
                        Delaware
                    . 
                        Pattawatimn
                    , 
                        Miami
                    , and Eel River tribes of Indians, have agreed
                    and concluded upon the following treaty: which when ratified by the President,
                    with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United Sstates, shall be
                    binding on said parties.
            "Art. I. The Miami and Eel River tribes, and the 
                        Delaware
                     and Pattawatimas, as their allies, agree to cede to the 
                        United States
                     all that tract of country which shall be included between the
                    boundary line established by the treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , the 
                        Wabash
                    , and a line to be drawn from the mouth of a creek called Raccoon
                    creek [near Montezuma], emptying into the 
                        Wabash
                    . on the southeast side, about twelve miles below the mouth of the
                        Vermilion river, so as to strike the boundary line
                    established by the treaty of Grouselanrt. at such a distance from its
                    commencement. at the northeast corner of the '
                        Vincennes
                     Tract,' ns will leave the tract now ceded thirty miles
                    wide at the narrowest place. And also all that 
                  
                     35Mss. No. 49062 Indiana State "Library,
                            63, 64, 65; Senate Documents, Volume 39, page 104.
                  
                     36Mss. No. 49062 Indiana State Library,
                        71-74.
               
                     tract which shall be included between the
                    following boundaries, viz: beginning at Fort Recovery, thence southwardly along
                    the general boundary line established by the treaty of Greenville, to its
                    intersection with the boundary line established by the treaty of Grouseland;
                    thence along said line to a point, from which a line drawn parallel to the first
                    mentioned line, will be twelve miles distant from the same, and along the said
                    parallel line to its intersection with a line to be drawn from Fort Recovery,
                    parallel to the line established by the said treaty of Grouseland.
            "Art. II. The Miamis explicitly acknowledge the equal right of the
                    Delawares with themselves to the country watered by the White
                    river. But it is also to be clearly understood, that neither party
                    shall have the right of disposing of the same without the consent of the others;
                    and any improvements which shall be made on the said land by the Delawares. or
                    their friends, the Hochecans. shall be theirs forever.
            "Art. III. The compensation to be given for the cession made in the
                    first article, shall be as follows, viz: to the Delawares, a permanent annuity
                    of five hundred dollars; to the Miamis, a like annuity of five hundred dollars:
                    to the Eel River tribe, a like annuity of two hundred and
                    fifty dollars; and to the Pattawatimas. a like annuity of five hundred dollars.
            "Art. IV. All the stipulations made in the treaty of Greenville,
                    relative to the manner of paying the nnnunities, and the right of the Indians to
                    hunt upon the land, shall apply to the annuities granted, and the land ceded, by
                    the present treaty.
            "Art. V. The consent of the Wea tribe shall be necessary to complete the
                    title to the first tract of land here ceded; a separate convention shall be
                    entered into between them and the 
                        United States
                    , and a reasonable allowance of goods given them in hand, and a permanent annuity, which shall not be less than three
                    hundred dollars, settled upon them.
            "Art. VI. The annuities promised by the third article, and the goods now
                    delivered to the amount of five thousand two hundred dollars, shall be
                    considered as a full compensation for the cession made in the first article.
            "Art. VII. The tribes who are parties to this treaty, being desirous of
                    putting an end to the depredations which are committed by abandoned individuals
                    of their own color, upon the cattle, horses, etc., of the more industrious and
                    careful, agree to adopt the following regulations, viz: when any theft or other
                    depredations shall be committed by any individual or individuals of one of the
                    tribes above mentioned, upon the property of any individual or individuals of
                    another tribe, the chiefs of the party injured shall make application to the
                    agent of the 
                        United States
                    , who is charged with the delivery of the annuities of the tribe to
                    which the offending party belongs, whose duty it shall be to hear the proofs and
                    allegations on either side, and determine between them; and the amount of his
                    award shall be immediately deducted from the annuity of the tribe to which the
                    offending party belongs, and given to the person injured. or to the chief of his
                    village for his use.
            
            "Art. VIII. The 
                        United States
                     agree to relinquish their rights to the reserve, at the old
                    Ouroctenon towns, made by the treaty of Greenville, so far, at least, as to make
                    no further use of it than for the establishment of a military post.
            "Art. IX. The tribes who are parties to this treaty, being desirous to
                    show their attachment to their brothers the Kickapoos, agree to cede to the 
                        United States
                     the land on the northwest side of the 
                        Wabash
                    , from the 
                        Vincennes
                     tract to a northwardly extension of the line running from the mouth
                    of the aforesaid Racoon creek, and fifteen miles in width from the 
                        Wabash
                    , on condition that the 
                        United States
                     shall allow them, an annuity of four hundred dollars. But this
                    article is to have no effect unless the Kickapoos will agree to it.
            "In testimony whereof, the said William Henry Harrison, and the sachems
                    and war chiefs of the before-mentioned tribes, have hereunto set their hands and
                    afQxed their seals, at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , this thirtieth of September, eighteen hundred and nine.
            
               
                  WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON
                  L.S.
               
               
                  Delawnres
                  
               
               
                  ANDERSON, for Hockingpomskon. who is absent (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  ANDERSON (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  PETCHEKEKAPON (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  THE BEAVER (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  CAPTAIN KILLBUCK (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  Pattawatimas
                  
               
               
                  WINEMAO (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  FIVE MEDALS, by his son (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  MOGAWGO (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  SHISSAHECON. for himself and his brother Tuthinipee (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  OSSMEET. brother to Five Medals (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  NANOUSEKAH. Pennmo's son (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  MOSSER (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  CHEQUINIMO (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  SACHANACKSHUT (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  CONENGEE (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  Minmis
                  
               
               
                  PUCAN (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  THE OWL (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  MESHEKENOGHQUA. or the Little Turtle (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  WAPEMANGUA. or the Loon (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  SILVER HEELS (his X mark)
                  L.S
               
               
                  SHAWAPENOMO (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  Eel Rivers.37
                  
               
               
                  CHARLEY (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  SHESHANGOMEQUAH, or Swallow Chis X mark)
                  L.S.
               
               
                  THE YOUNG WYANDOT, a Miami of 
                                Elkhart
                             (his X mark)
                  L.S.
               
            
            In the presence of Peter. Tones, secretary to the commissioner; John 
                  
                     37"Dillon History of
                            Indiana, 535-538.
               
                     Johnson. Indian agent; A. Heald, capt. the 
                        United States
                    ' army; A. Edwards, surgeon's mate; Ph.
                    Ostrander, lieut. 
                        United States
                    ' army; John Shaw; Stephen Johnson: J. Hamilton, Sheriff
                    of 
                        Dearborn county
                    ; Hendriek Aupamut.
            WILLIAM WELLS JOHN CONNER JOSEPH BARRON ABRAHAM ASH, Sworn
                        Interpreters."38
            
            A separate article, bearing upon the foregoing treaty, reads as follows:
            "A separate Article, entered into at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , September 30, 1800. between William Henry Harrison, and the
                    sachems and chief warriors of the Miami and Eel River
                    tribes of Indians, which is to be considered as forming part of the treaty this
                    day concluded, between the 
                        United States
                    . and the said tribes, and their allies, the Pelawares and
                    Pattawatimas.
            "As the greater part of the lands, ceded to the 
                        United States
                    , by the treaty, this day concluded, was the exclusive property of
                    the Miami nation, and guaranteed to them by the treaty of Grouseland, it is
                    considered by the said commissioner just and reasonable that their request to be
                    allowed some further and additional compensation should be complied with. It is,
                    therefore, agreed, that the 
                        United States
                     shall deliver, for their use. in the course of the next spring, at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , domestic animals to the amount of five hundred dollars, and the
                    like number for the two following years; and that an armory shall be also
                    maintained at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , for the use of the Indians, as heretofore: it is also agreed that,
                    if the Kickapoos confirm the ninth article of the treaty to which this is a
                    supplement, the 
                        United States
                     will allow to the Miamis a further permanent annuity of two hundred
                    dollars, and to the Wea and Eel River tribes, a further
                    annuity of one hundred dollars each.
            "In testimony whereof, the said William Henry Harrison, and the sachems
                    and war chiefs of the said tribes, have hereunto set their hands, and affixed
                    their seals the day and place above mentioned.
            [Here follow the signatures.]39
            
            An endorsement of the foregoing treaty reads as follows, dated at 
                        Vincennes
                     October 26, 1809:
            "A Convention entered into at 
                        Vincennes
                    , in the Indiana territory, between William Henry Harrison,
                    Commissioner Plenipotentiary of the 
                        United States
                     for treating with the Indian tribes, northwest of the 
                        Ohio
                    . and the Wea tribe.
            "The said tribe, by their sachems and head warriors, hereby declare
                    their full and free consent to the treaty concluded at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , on the 
                  
                     38Mss. No. 49062 Indiana State Library, 71-74; Senate Documents, Volume 39, pages 101 and 102; American State Papers, II, Indian Affairs, 761.
                  
                     39Mss. No. 49062, Indiana State library, 74, 75;
                                American State Papers, II, Affairs. 761-762; Senate Documents, Volume 39, 103.
               
                     thirtieth ultimo, by the above mentioned
                    commissioner, with the 
                        Delaware
                    , 
                        Miami
                    , 
                        Pattawatima
                    , and Eel River tribes, and also, to the
                    separate article entered into on the same day with the Miami and Eel
                        River tribes; and the said commissioner on the part of the 
                        United States
                    , agrees to allow the said tribe an additional annuity of three
                    hundred dollars, and a present sum of fifteen hundred dollars, in consideration
                    of the relinquishment made in the first article of said treaty; and a further
                    permanent annuity of one hundred dollars, as soon as the Kickapoos can be
                    brought to give their consent to the ninth article of said treaty.40
            
            [Then follow the usual signatures.]
            In the following treaty the Kickapoos gave their formal consent to the Treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    :
            "William Henry Harrison, Governor of the Indiana territory, and the
                    sachems and war chiefs of the Kickapoo tribe, on the part of the said tribe,
                    have agreed to the following articles, which, when ratified by the President, by
                    and with the advice of the Senate shall be binding on said parties.
            "Art. I. The ninth article of the treaty concluded at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , on the thirtieth of September last, and the cession it contains,
                    is hereby. agreed to by the Kickapoos, and a permanent additional annuity of
                    four hundred dollars, and goods to the amount of eight hundred dollars, now
                    delivered, is to be considered as a full compensation for the said cession.
            "Art. II. The said tribe further agrees to cede to the 
                        United States
                    , all that tract of land which lies between the tract above ceded,
                    the 
                        Wabash
                    , the Vermilion river, and a line to be drawn
                    from the north corner of the said ceded tract, so as to strike the
                        Vermilion river, at the distance of twenty miles, in a
                    direct line from its mouth. For this cession, a further annuity of one hundred
                    dollars, and the sum of seven hundred dollars, in goods, now delivered, is
                    considered as a full compensation. But, if the Miamis should not be willing to
                    sanction the latter cession, and the 
                        United States
                     should not think proper to take possession of the land without
                    their consent, they shall be released from the obligation to pay the additional
                    annuity of one hundred dollars.
            "Art. III. The stipulations contained in the treaty of Greenville,
                    relative to the manner of paying the annuity, and of the right of the Indians to
                    hunt upon the land, shall apply to the annuity granted and the land ceded by the
                    present treaty.41
            
            [The signatures follow.]
            All the treaties mentioned in this article were ratified by the 
                        United States
                     Senate. In transmitting this treaty first before mentioned, General
                    Harrison called attention to the fact that the 
                  
                     40
                     American State Papers, Indian
                                Affairs, II, 762; Senate Documents, Volume
                            39, page 104; Mss. No. 49062 Indiana State Library, 259.
                  
                     41Mss. No. 49062 Indiana State Library, 262; American State Papers, Indian Affairs, II, 762-763;
                                Senate Documents, No. 39, pages 104 and
                        105.
               
                     Kickapoos had consented to the Treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , September 30, 1809, and also consented to a cession northwest of
                    the 
                        Wabash
                    , as high up as the Vermilion river. On
                    December 10, 1809, he wrote:
            "This small tract (of about twenty miles square) is one of the most
                    beautiful that can be conceived, and is, moreover, believed to contain a very
                    rich copper mine. I have myself, frequently seen specimens of the copper, one of
                    which I sent to Mr. Jefferson, in 1802. The Indians were so extremely jealous of
                    any search being made for this mine that the traders were always cautioned not
                    to approach the hills, which are supposed to contain the mine."42
            
            It appears that the Indians had large road belts to guide them in the making of
                    these treaties, and in showing the treaty lines.43
            
            The student of the foregoing treaties will observe that the Indians received
                    better pay for the land they ceded in the treaty of September 30, 1809, than
                    they did for any other sale while Indiana was a territory. He will also observe
                    that there was a tendency of each tribe to recognize the right of some other
                    tribe to a quasi title to the land ceded. He will further observe that General
                    Harrison usually stipulated that a compensation would be paid the Indians who
                    signed, when the other tribes agreed to the treaty, etc
            The Indians began to see themselves losing the land, and the tribes in the
                    central and northern part of Indiana began to see white men to the south of
                    them, where once roamed warriors of their own color. The government surveyor,
                    who immediately entered the land after the treaties were signed, began to divide
                    the forests into sections ready for the land offices and settlers. Two hundred
                    and fifty thousand forest trees bearing the marks of the surveyors, tokens of
                    advancing civilization, told the Indians, in a manner not to be misunderstood,
                    that the days of the forest were numbered, and that their possessions were
                    passing away.
            Tecumseh was an Indian statesman, in addition to being a warrior. He contended
                    that the Indians held their land in common, and that no one tribe or family
                    could properly convey a part of the Indian territory to the whites. He
                    endeavored to have the Indians unite and to consider their lands as the common
                    property of the whole. He accused General Harrison of taking tribes aside, and
                    advising them not to unite or enter into Tecumseh's Confederacy.
                        
                  
                     42
                     American State Papers, Indian
                                Affairs, II, 762.
                  
                     43Dillon Historical Notes of the
                                Northwestern Territory, 393-398.
               
                     Tecumseh was particularly severe in his
                    address to General Harrison on August 20, 1810.44 The sale
                    of land made at the Treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in 1809 by certain tribes brought forth a remonstrance from
                    Tecumseh, and in time, the dissatisfaction among the Indian warriors caused by
                    the treaties enumerated in this article led to the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , in 1811.
            That part of these Indian treaty tracts in which Dubois county can claim a
                    particular interest is the original "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract," and the tract first bought after the Greenville
                    Treaty and which lies immediately south of the "
                        Vincennes
                     Tract." The treaty line is known as the Freeman Line. It
                    enters Dubois county about two and one-fourth miles north of the southwest
                    corner of the county, runs south 78 degrees east [1802], and leaves the county a
                    mile west of the southeast corner of Cass township. The line runs through Dubois
                    county a distance of 7.35 miles, and covers a meridian distance of seven miles.
                    The land north of this line is said to have been sold by Indians at a council at 
                        Vincennes
                    , in 1742. This sale was reaffirmed at the Treaty of 
                        Greenville
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1795, and again by the treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in 1803. That part south of the line was sold by the Indians, at
                    the Treaty of 
                        Vincennes
                    , in 1804. It is said 
                        Vincennes
                     became an Indian trading post in 1690, and a French military post,
                    commanded by Francis Morgan De Vincennes under King Charles XIV, in 1702.45 Thus we see, the French were at 
                        Vincennes
                     one hundred years before Freeman surveyed this line through Dubois
                    county, as indicating the boundary of the territory the French had obtained from
                    the Indians, by treaty, the documentary evidence of which seems to have been
                    lost. The exact location of this Freeman Line with reference to section corners
                    is shown by the plat herewith.
            
               
                  44Dillon History of Indiana, 431,
                        442-447, 454, 455, 473.
               
                  45Governor Ralston's "Centennial
                        Letter," 1915. Dillon Historical Notes of the
                            Northwestern Territory, 100-101.
            
         
         
         
            The Election of 1852*
            
            By DALE BEELER, Vice Consul to 
                        Rome
                    .
            VI THE STATE CAMPAIGN
            
            The candidates on the State ticket filled long schedules of joint poltical
                    meetings in all parts of the State and from early in the spring until a short
                    time before the election. Messrs. Wright and McCarty, candidates for governor,
                    and Messrs. Willard and Williams, candidates for lieutenant-governor, and others
                    of the leading office-seekers had extended itineraries during most of the
                    campaign. The newspapers seldom reported in full any of the speeches, but always
                    commented on them. A great part was taken in the campaign by the editors who
                    waged an incessant warfare against their political opponents, always seeking to
                    embroil in the general conflict any man who showed signs of fight. One side
                    endeavored to put the other in a hole by digging up some particularly unsavory
                    act in a candidate's past record.
            In the campaign of 1852, as in nearly every State campaign since, the candidates
                    pleaded the "farmer" story, pretending a great love and
                    affection for and interest in that body of the citizenship, in order to get the
                    farmers' votes. The leading newspapers of each party engaged, during
                    the campaign, in a controversy as to the early life of their candidates for
                    governor, each trying to make out the strongest case for its own man that he was
                    or had been a farmer, and thus making him eminently qualified to represent the
                    interests of the farmers. This was a necessary qualification for a good
                    candidate for governor. The truth in this case was that neither Wright nor
                    McCarty had ever been a farmer long enough to get the name. McCarty had worked a
                    few months when a young man, while Wright's only claim lay in the
                    fact that he had been a mechanic who worked on farming implements. The fact that
                    while he was governor, he had spoken at several agricultural meetings and at
                    various county fairs, appeared to give the governor the strongest case.
            
               
                  *Concluded from last number.
            
            
            The Indiana State Journal labored long and industriously to
                    manufacture campaign thunder from some of Governor Wright's fervid
                    and over-eloquent protestations of love for Democracy's principles.
                    Daily from March 1 until election day, it gave prominence in its columns to the
                    following words, which Governor Wright had uttered at the time of the State
                    Convention:
            "Whigs! Remember that Joseph A. Wright emphatically twice
                    declared, on accepting the nomination of the Democratic Convention, that
                    'he had rather fall with his political friends than rise with the aid
                    of his political opponents.' "41
            
            The Democratic press answered this by saying that the State
                    Journal inserted the words "the aid of," that Governor
                    Wright did not say them; and further, that what he meant was that "he
                    would rather fall fighting with his friends for his cherished principles, than
                    rise with his opponents, by the sacrifice of any of those
                        principles."42
            
            The Whig papers were not in the least averse to going into Governor
                    Wright's past record to gather utterances of his which might be
                    converted to useful campaign ammunition. The State Journal and
                    the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Banner, both Whig, attacked the governor for his speech at a
                    fair in 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1851, during the heat of the slavery agitation, in which he had
                    said that "all the members of Congress from Indiana, who supported the
                    compromise measures, had misrepresented their constituents and would be defeated
                    if they were candidates for re-election" and "that Indiana
                    would never execute the fugitive slave law." At this time, in 1852,
                    Governor Wright and his party stood for that measure, and now the Whig press was
                    calling upon him to explain the inconsistency of his attitude. Governor Wright
                    was never strong pro-slavery, rather he was more of a Free Soiler. His views as
                    he expressed them on that occasion, are explainable when it is remembered that
                    he expressed the real sentiments of most Indianians at that time when the free
                    men's passions were inflamed by the slavery agitation. The governor
                    was no more inconsistent than many of the Whigs.
            The Democratic press refrained from attacking Mr. McCarty to any extent. It may
                    have been because he was commonly recognized as a weak candidate. His career as
                    a noteshaver in connection with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Land Office several years before would have made good campaign
                    material but for the fact that the business seems 
                  
                     41
                            Indiana State Journal, March 1, 1852.
                  
                     42
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Democratic Pharos, May 12, 1852.
               
                     to have been a bi-partisan game, with a
                    prominent Democratic leader involved. It would have been as bad for one party as
                    for the other if this subject had been thoroughly aired.
            The death of Henry Clay on June 29, 1852, gave the Whig press cause for another
                    sally against Governor Wright's record. This time an attempt was made
                    to get campaign capital from the inconsistency of Wright's criticism
                    of 
                        Clay
                     during the campaign. of 1844 and his expressions of respect, after 
                        Clay
                    's death, for the greatness of the 
                        Kentucky
                     Statesman. The Indiana State Journal called the
                    Governor a slanderer of 
                        Clay
                     for pronouncing hypocritical eulogies. It gave voice to its power
                    of villification in the following words:
            "Among all the lean, gaunt, and vindictive blood-hounds, that were ever
                    unleashed from the kennel of Locofocoism, and for years pursued Mr. Olay with
                    slander and detraction, Joseph A. Wright was among the foremost. In 1844, he
                    denounced Mr. Olay as a blackleg, a Sabbath-breaker, and a murderer, declaring
                    with most sanctimonious face, and with up-turned eyes, that the
                    'blood of poor Cilley (killed in a duel) was upon his
                    hands.' "43
            
            The State Sentinel replied that the above article in its length
                    and breadth, was wilfully and maliciously false, and that John D. De-frees, the
                    author, knew it was false when he uttered and published it; that the Journal men were soulless villifiers, by whose policy of
                    blackguardism it would never allow itself to be driven from position. These
                    editorials were mere newspaper squabble and had little influence on the voters.
                    The editor of the State Journal was more eager to break down
                    the Democrats than to work for the election of General Scott and the Whig
                    ticket. Such an attitude only shows their unconcern as to the outcome of the
                    election. Editor Clarkson of the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    American, said that neither Scott nor Pierce represented any
                    moral issue and he was perfectly indifferent as to the result of the election.
                    Parker, the only Whig member of Congress from this State, repudiated the Whig
                    platform and ticket.
            The 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Democratic Pharos also indulged in the practice of comparing
                    the lives and records of the Democratic and Whig candidates for governor. As for
                    McCarty, it said that the Whigs talk about that honest, plain, unassuming man as
                    though the article of honesty were a rare commodity at least among the Whigs.
                    Then the Pharos tells what an honest, industrious young man
                    Governor 
                  
                     43
                            Indiana State Sentinel, Aug. 30, 1852.
               
                     Wright was in his youth, about his life as a
                    student at Indiana University, where, during his attendance, he acted as janitor
                    and doorkeeper at that institution, earning, by chopping wood and other services
                    usually considered menial, the means of subsistence while in 
                        Bloomington
                     during his college course. The Sentinel asserted
                    that the President of the Board of Trustees of Indiana University was the
                    authority for the statement about Wright.
            Governor Wright entered the campaign early in April. He usually spoke on some
                    phase of State finances, occasionally changing1 to the
                    tariff and the subtreasury system when he wished to speak on national issues. He
                    claimed for the Democrats the credit for the redemption of the State from Whig
                    indebtedness and he never failed to extol the wisdom of the sale of the
                    State's interest in the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railway, a deal which seems to have been engineered by politicians
                    in both parties. The reduction of the State debt which in 1843, following the
                    financial stringency, amounted to near $15,000,000, which he had
                    reduced by one-half– by repudiation, some said–was one of
                    Governor Wright's main sources of campaign argument. In a speech made
                    on one of the joint tours with McCarty, he said: "What is now the
                    condition of the State ? About one-half of the State debt discharged, and the
                    interest on the balance promptly paid. The credit of the State is good at home
                    and abroad; and the sun rises this day upon a million of her children prosperous
                    and happy. Are not these things so? And by whose policy has this change been
                    produced? There is no man in Indiana, who knows her history but that will, in
                    the honest conviction of his heart, say it was the Democratic policy that has
                    redeemed our fallen State."44 About one-half of the
                    State debt was cancelled by the Butler Bill of 1846 and its amendment of 1847,
                    according to which the old canal was given to the bondholders for one-half of
                    the bonds.
            Nicholas McCarty had been a merchant most of his life and therefore was not very
                    well versed in the arts and tricks of the political campaigning. He was a plain,
                    unassuming man, so plain, in fact, that he never made a hit with his audience by
                    displaying his oratorical powers. McCarty's lack of experience in the
                    art of stump-speaking was well-known to most people, including the Democratic
                    press. The statement issued by McCarty after the Whig State Convention that he
                    would take no active part in the campaign gave 
                  
                     44
                            Indiana State Journal, April 2, 1852.
               
                     occasion to the 
                        Huntington
                    
                    Democrat to express satisfaction with such a course. That
                    paper said:
            "It is understood that Mr. McCarty will remain at home throughout the
                    entire campaign, being a little timorous about meeting Wright on the stump.
                    That's a sensible arrangement on his part. For him to canvass the
                    State in opposition to Jo. Wright would be only time and money thrown away, and
                    it seems he knows it."45
            
            Expressions of this kind by the opposition served to draw Mr. McCarty from his
                    retirement, as on March 16, he resigned his seat in the State Senate because
            "his nomination as the Whig candidate for governor, and his
                    determination to devote a considerable portion of his time in visiting different
                    portions of the State, renders it necessary for him to resign."
            The Indiana State Journal, throughout the campaign, manifested
                    great confidence that the elections would result favorably to the Whigs. Soon
                    after the opening of the State campaign, it expressed its confidence in the
                    following words:
            "There never has been a time in Indiana, since 1840, that the Whigs felt
                    more confident of success than now. Since the news of the nominations made by
                    the Whig Convention has reached the various parts of the State, we have received
                    many letters of the most encouraging character. In every neighborhood the right
                    kind of spirit to secure victory seems to pervade the Whig ranks."46
            
            The Whigs tried to make their prospects look a little more rosy by putting out
                    rumors to the effect that many Democrats of Northern Indiana were so much
                    displeased with the ticket composed mostly of Democrats from Southern Indiana
                    that they would refuse to support it. The threat, if it was made, does not seem
                    to have been carried out.
            The Whigs and Democrats in many places in the State held jollification meetings
                    following the news of their Presidential nominations, and at other times during
                    the campaign. The press, in the period from April to November, carried an almost
                    daily account of a ratification meeting or pole-raising somewhere in the State.
                    Guns, bonfires, cannon and fire works were a few of the means to which the
                    enthusiastic partisans resorted. Balloon ascensions, quite a novelty in that
                    day, occurred at 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Lafayette
                     on the 
                  
                     45
                            
                                Huntington
                            
                            Democrat, March 15, 1852.
                  
                     46
                            Indiana State Journal, March 11, 1852.
               
                     occasion of jollification meetings. The
                    newspapers of one party, in reporting an account of the meetings of the other
                    party, always emphasized the poor attendance and conduct. On the other hand,
                    when their own party held a meeting, the newspaper account dwells long on the
                    enormous crowds that swarmed to hear the speaker, the number always taxing the
                    capacity of the halls or grounds, and the great enthusiasm of everyone. A
                    Democratic political meeting at Edin-burg, on September 9, which was addressed
                    by Thomas A. Hendricks, candidate for Congress, was reported by the Whig papers
                    as having been postponed once because of the small audience, and when it did
                    take place, there were only thirteen men and boys present. "About
                    fifteen men and boys" was a favorite number with the Whig press when
                    reporting Democratic meetings. The Democratic press was equally guilty of this
                    practice. The papers frequently gave the speeches bitter and sarcastic
                        criticisms.47
            
            In many instances, there were attempts, sometimes successful, made by rowdies of
                    one party to disturb and to break up the political meetings of the other party.
                    The practice was general and there were several cases of it in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . But the most prominent case was that at 
                        New Albany
                     just before election. The editor of the Democratic Ledger, John Norman, publicly accused the editor of the Whig 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Tribune of instigating the disturbance at the meeting held by
                    the Democrats. The Tribune editor, P. M. Kent, did not deny
                    the accusation, probably because he considered it as one of the legitimate
                    tricks of the game. A great many voters of both parties had little interest in
                    the campaign, so it may be that their conduct at political meetings was nothing
                    more than horseplay.
            The newspapers made good use of campaign poetry as a means of arousing enthusiasm
                    and getting in an additional thrust at the enemy. Some of the poems were not of
                    a very high class, but they all served the purpose.48
            
            The Free Soilers were most frequently troubled by having their 
                  
                     47
                            Indiana State Journal, June 15, 1852. Hon. John W.
                            Davis of 
                                Carlisle
                            , Indiana, spoke to Democrats at 
                                Indianapolis
                             June 14. Journal: "His speech
                            lasted three-quarters of an hour, during which he completely enchanted
                            the audience (judging from the absence of applause), glorified the
                            'gallant,' 'noble,'
                            'Young Hickory of the Granite State,' and gave the
                            Whigs particular saltpeter."
                  
                     48
                            Indiana State Sentinel, Aug. 30, 1852. "Such
                            kind of stuff is all the argument that Whigs can hunt up in favor of
                            Nick McCarty. It is now going the rounds of the Whig press in the
                            State." "Let fools unite And
                                vote for Wright, Just to support the party, While those who know A
                                thing or two Will go for Nick McCarty."
                  
               
                     meetings disturbed or broken up. They
                    carried on their campaign work mostly in connection with church activities.
                    Andrew L. Robinson, Free Soil candidate for governor, who made speeches in 
                        Evansville
                    , 
                  New Albany,
                            Madison
                and other towns
                    on the 
                        Kentucky
                     border, without interruption or annoyance, according to the 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Daily Ledger, was not permitted to speak at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , far away from any influence which slaveholders might be expected
                    to wield.49
            
            VII. THE NATIONAL CAMPAIGN
            
            The national campaign may be said to have opened soon after the national
                    conventions were over. The Democratic Empire said that
                    "the opening of the Presidential campaign on the Democratic side, calls
                    vividly to mind the good old Jackson times." And then the Indiana State Journal pointedly remarked: "Perhaps it
                    does– by contrast; just as a famine is apt to revive the memory of
                    the feast."50 There certainly was a famine of real
                    Democratic enthusiam when the campaign began, and concerning this apparent
                    deficiency, the State Journal continued:
            "The great lack of enthusiasm among the Democrats for their candidates
                    is occasioned by their obscurity in public life. Few people anywhere, including
                    Indiana, know anything about the candidates. So there is little room either for
                    criticism or enthusiasm."
            A most correct diagnosis of the situation! Then the State
                        Journal quotes from the 
                        Charleston
                     (S. C.) Mercury, as follows:
            "When a party throws aside all its most distinguished men, the only men
                    capable of giving consistency to its counsel and vigor to its movements
                    –when it disowns its leaders and representatives, and for motives of
                    temporary advantage, crowns with highest honors obscure men, it ceases, in any
                    respectable sense, to be a party, and becomes a mere herd of spoilsmen. We have
                    no ambition to labor in such a crowd."50
            
            The State Journal, in giving its opinion of Pierce, first
                    quoted General Pickett, one of the Democratic stumpers of 
                        Tennessee
                    , who said: that "the Presidency should never be awarded to
                    any man on account of eminent services," and then it adds, "if
                    this be so, then have the Democracy been very fortunate in their
                    selection." 51
            
            
               
                  49
                        
                            New Albany
                        
                        Daily Ledger, Oct. 28, 1852.
               
                  50
                        Indiana State Journal, June 25, 1852.
                            "Obscurity of Pierce," James Schouler, History of the U. S., Vol. 5, Chap. XX, p. 244.
               
               
                  51
                        Indiana State Journal, Sept. 30, 1852.
            
            
            The Whig newspapers of the State took great delight in the many mistakes which
                    the Democrats made in reporting the name of their Presidential candidate. Lists
                    of these errors were run in the Whig papers. Many of the names were given by the
                    editors of the country newspapers who, not knowing the real name, made one of
                    their own. Also, the Whigs invented some of the names for their own use. The State Journal conducted an unrelenting editorial attack
                    against General Pierce up until the very day of the election. It did almost
                    everything possible to belittle and heap ridicule upon the Democratic candidate.
                    It made light of Pierce's war record, saying that:
            "Next to making a 'whistle out of a pig's
                    ear' the attempt at manufacturing Franklin Pierce, Attorney and
                    Counselor at Law and Solicitor in Chancery, into a military hero, is the most
                    provoking."
            The Whigs worked hard to make capital of the fact that the 
                        New Hampshire
                     constitution excluded Catholics from holding office and General
                    Pierce was a member of the convention that drafted the constitution. They
                    contended that the Democrats controlled the state and made the law; therefore
                    that in the convention they were against the Catholics. General Pierce was in
                    the convention, but there was plenty of proof to show that he opposed the
                    provision relating to Catholic exclusion. In their turn, the Democrats often
                    accused Scott of being a Catholic and a Catholic sympathizer, therefore the
                    Native Whigs could not support him, nor could the Know-Nothings. This accusation
                    was not well founded, as General Scott was an Episcopalian.
            The Indiana Whigs began the national campaign by organizing Chippewa Clubs all
                    over the State. The Indiana State Journal endorsed the idea of
                    closer organization. These clubs usually conducted the Whig rallies and
                    pole-raisings.
            On July 1st, the Whigs of 
                        Indianapolis
                     had a great ratification meeting to endorse the nomination of the
                    Whig National Convention. Resolutions were adopted which gave approval for the
                    Scott and Graham nominations; for Fillmore's conduct in office and
                    his good service; and expressing sorrow at the death of Henry Clay, an event
                    which the Indiana State Journal called "a great
                    national calamity, as creating a void in the councils of our country that can
                    not be filled." Col. Henry S. Lane, of 
                        Montgomery county
                    , made the main address. The Whigs declared that they had flourished
                         in 1840 on Hard Cider; in 1852 they
                    would meet with equal success on Scott Soup and Graham Bread. On this occasion
                    they raised a tall, thin pole bearing a Scott banner, but the pole soon broke,
                    the event causing much amusement for the State Sentinel. The
                        State-Journal retorted that "any sapling will
                    bear up the Pierce flag, for it is a name of no weight; but it takes something
                    of a pole to float the great name of General Scott. Common timber
                    won't do it." Music for the ratification meeting was
                    furnished by the Chippewa Glee Club of the city.
            The Whigs worked hard to make the tariff the leading issue of the campaign. While
                    the Democrats were busy telling the voters the beneficent effects which the
                    country was enjoying under the equitable Walker Tariff of 1846, they were
                    engaged in reciting the iniquities of such half-hearted protection and loudly
                    declared that the ruination of American industries was speedily being brought
                    about. The Indiana State Journal carried a series of articles
                    on tariff and protection which were intended to show the ill-effects of the
                    Walker Tariff for revenue of 1846. They laid great emphasis on the decrease in
                    foreign exportation and attendant increase in the amount of imports and the bad
                    business conditions. They deplored the large shipments of specie sent from this
                    country to Europe. This series of articles was signed by Americus of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Indiana, but the author was most likely O. H. Smith.
            In the tariff controversy carried on during the campaign, the Whigs, in order to
                    cite Democratic authority in the justification of protection, resurrected the
                    old "Coleman letter," which General Jackson had written to
                    Governor Ray, of Indiana, during his first administration. In this letter
                    General Jackson had said that he favored a "judicious
                    protection." The State Journal professed to believe
                    and labored vigorously to make the voters believe that the Democrats, by free
                    trade or low tariff, were sacrificing the American manufactures to the English
                    merchants. It went so far as to declare that there was an alliance between the
                    Locofoco party in the 
                        United States
                     and the English merchants, to break down American manufactures and
                    thus secure the market for 
                        England
                    . The State Journal published items from three 
                        London
                     papers purporting to show English preference for
                    Pierce's success, though the truth was those papers expressed general
                    indifference to the American election and stated that in event of General
                    Pierce's success, the Democrats would continue to conduct commercial
                    relations on the principle of  trade
                    co-operation. The Whigs used this as another ruse to arouse opposition to the
                    Democrats among the Irish by declaring that the Democracy was allied with 
                        England
                     through free trade, which would not be for the welfare of Irishmen.
            As the campaign was drawing to a close, the papers of both parties began to
                    publish long lists of the names of voters who were not going to support their
                    party nominees. The 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Tribune was the most notorious offender along this line. Many
                    days its lists of "come-outers" from the Democratic party
                    became so extensive that they were obliged to shorten the number for lack of
                    space to print the names and frequently the Tribune editor
                    would insert a statement to the effect that certain news items were postponed
                    until the following day in order that in the issue at hand there might be space
                    to publish the names of the Democrats who were flocking to support General
                    Scott. The Democratic press was also guilty of using this method."2 Those voters who went from one party to the other were
                    generally known as "backfirers,"
                    "come-outers," and their act was called "firing in
                    the rear."
            On September 11, the Democrats of 
                        Indianapolis
                     had a grand rally with Judge Stephen A. Douglas, U. S. Senator from 
                        Illinois
                    , as the chief orator of the day. Previous to the meeting, the
                    Granite Clubs of the city, with most of the Democrats, had a procession which
                    the Indiana State Journal reported as consisting of two
                    carriages, and one buggy, the military company and just thirty-nine other
                    persons, all told. The State Journal severely criticized Judge
                    Douglas's speech and thereby aroused the ire of William J. Brown, the
                    editor of the Sentinel. A few days later he flung a hot shot
                    of the following calibre into the Journal camp:
            "The Journal persists in its scurrilous abuse of Judge
                    Douglas, and attempts to justify it. Though its course in this matter may be
                    perfectly self-satisfactory, we are much mistaken if the correct taste and. good
                    sense of the decent portion of the Whig party is not outraged by such
                        billingsgate."53
            
            
               
                  52
                        Indiana State Journal, Aug. 28, 1SB2. "In 1840,
                        and in 1848, the Democratic papers were filled with names of John Smiths and
                        Jim Browns who would not vote for 'Old Granny
                        Harrison' in 1840, and for 'Old Noodle-head
                        Taylor' in 1848. The election day arrived, and we got along very
                        well, without these gentlemen. The same trick is now being performed.
                        "Whole counties and even States of people won't go for
                        'Old Fuss and Feathers,' any way it can be
                        fixed! Well, we shall see on election day. It will come out about
                        as it did in 1840 and 1848."
               
                  53
                        Indiana State Journal, Sept. 21, 1852.
            
            
            Both parties made use to the fullest advantage of the war records of their
                    candidates. The Democrats attacked General Scott for what they called his
                    unjustifiable conduct in both the War of 1812 and the Mexican War. They even
                    figured up the total amount of his salary which he had drawn from the government
                    during forty years of service, and then they raised the howl for economy. The
                    Whigs made light of Pierce's military record in Mexico, declaring
                    that he fainted in battle at the sight of blood from a wound inflicted by
                    falling from his horse. The Whigs thought that General Scott's long
                    faithful and patriotic services to his country were in themselves, sufficient
                    qualifications to fit him for the Presidency. His dealings with foreign-born
                    citizens had been so extensive and varied, and his attitude on the period of
                    naturalization required of immigrants had been so changeable that he was obliged
                    to explain his position on the subject of naturalization in order to prevent the
                    Democrats from making effective appeals to the foreign-born vote by circulating
                    false stories as to his belief. Webster had few if any supporters in Indiana, or
                    even the West; his strength was in the East. The defection of the Webster
                    faction from the Whig regular ticket was denied by the Whig press of Indiana,
                    but the papers from time to time, contained bitter expressions regarding
                    Webster's attitude. His seventh of March speech had cost him the
                    respect of most Northern Whigs.54 Webster at no time was out
                    of harmony with the 
                        Baltimore
                     platform, but Whig leaders would not be reconciled because of his
                    past acts and his refusal to participate in the campaign now. Even when news of
                    Webster's death, on October 24, reached this State, the leading Whig
                    papers of Indiana failed to show his memory the usual respect by wearing
                    mourning, and they gave very little notice concerning his death. In contrast,
                    the Democratic press accorded the noted statesman the customary respect of an
                    opposition press, and the 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Daily Ledger, considered by many as the most liberal paper in
                    the State, wore, on the morning following Webster's death, a full
                    dress of mourning and carried a most praiseworthy eulogy of his life and
                    services. The Indiana State Journal, the 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Tribune and other Whig papers passed him by with a wave of the
                    hand, a few lines, a mere squib. The thoughts of the Whig editors were poorly
                    concealed behind the veil of silence and the denial of the facts only helped to
                    betray the true state of affairs within the Whig party.
            
               
                  54 See J. G. Whittier's
                        "Ichabod."
            
            
            As soon as the campaign started, the campaign poets began to produce poetry of
                    varying kinds, ranging from short battle-cries to long, romantic lyrics. All the
                    newspapers were well supplied during the campaign with these literary
                        efforts.55
            
            VIII THE ELECTIONS
                    AND RESULTS
            
            The State election was held October 12. The Democrats in several places accused
                    the Whigs of using unfair means to promote their success. On the day preceding
                    the election, the 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Daily Ledger gave strong exhortations to the Democrats to
                    beware of fraudulent tickets on which the name of Mr. Willard, Democratic 
                  
                     55 Here are a few samples of poetry: 
                                WHIG WAR-CRY.
                                Damn the Locos, Kill 'em–slay
                                    'em ! Give 'em hell!
                                    With Scott and Graham!
                                –N. A. Daily Ledger,
                                    Sept. 10, 1852.
                            
                            
                                FIRST DEMOCRATIC RALLYING SONG.
                                Fling forth our banner gallantly, And let the people
                                    sing– Hurrah for old Democracy– Hurrah for
                                    Pierce and King. Come brave Locos– Gallant men and
                                    true, The Whigs were Polked in '44 We'll
                                    Pierce in fifty-two
                                –N. A. Daily Ledger,
                                    June 8, 1852.
                            
                            
                                A SONG FOR SCOTT AND GRAHAM.
                                In 
                                        Baltimore
                                     the Whigs agreed, Upon their candidate; And mean
                                    that he shall be the man, To guide the Ship of State. He bears a
                                    name that is without, A blemish or a spot– A patriot,
                                    hero, statesman, sage– Who else but Winfield Scott.,
                                    Hie Lokies ! Ho Lokies ! Listen while we
                                    sing, Hurrah, hurrah, for noble Scott, And down with Pierce and
                                    King.
                                –Indiana State
                                Journal.
                            
                        
               
                     candidate for lieutenant-governor, had been
                    replaced by the name of Mr. Williams, the Whig candidate for that office. The
                        Ledger warned the Democrats to read carefully their ticket
                    to see that every name was on it. This paper accused the Whig Tribune office of printing these tickets and Whig leaders of putting
                    them into circulation. Other towns witnessed similar trouble from the use of
                    mixed and scratched tickets, usually called fraudulent, but not technically
                        so.56
            
            The returns for the election came in very slowly from the outlying parts of the
                    State. By October 14, sufficient news as to the general trend had been received
                    by the Indiana State Journal to bring it to the point of
                    reluctantly admitting defeat. The State Journal had never had
                    any great hopes that McCarty would be elected, as it admitted a few weeks before
                    the election that it hardly expected McCarty to win, but was counting strongly
                    on Scott to triumph. In the eleven congressional districts of the State, only
                    one Whig was elected, the others being Democrats. These men were to take office
                    in the first session of Congress in 1853. The last congressional election had
                    been held in August, 1851, the men elected serving until the first session of
                    1853. This election was held according to the regulations of the old State
                    constitution which became ineffective after 1851. The successful candidates in
                    October, 1852, were as follows:
            First District, Smith Miller; Second District, W. H. English; Third District,
                    Cyrus L. Dunham; Fourth District, James H. Lane; Fifth District, Samuel W.
                    Parker (Whig); Sixth District, Thomas A. Hendricks; Seventh District, John G.
                    Davis; Eighth District, Daniel Mace; Ninth District, Norman Eddy; Tenth
                    District, E. M. Chamberlain; Eleventh District, Andrew J. Harlan.
                    Total–Democrats, 10; Whigs, 1.
            The other State election returns are included in the same table with those of the
                    National election. The Indiana State Journal ascribed this
                    decisive defeat of its State ticket to the large numbers of foreigners in
                    Indiana who voted the Democratic ticket, having been let in under the new
                    Democratic State constitution of 1851.
            
               
                  56 Each candidate had his own tickets printed. A
                        straight ticket contained all the candidates of the party. If a voter so
                        desired, he might have a man in another party insert his name on the ticket
                        in place of the regular candidate. Tickets so altered and distributed
                        indiscriminately without notice might carry the intent to defraud, but
                        whether it was fraudulent depended entirely upon the voter.
            
            
            In the preceding year more than four hundred Germans had settled in 
                        Marion county
                     alone. The State Journal said the Whigs had the
                    satisfaction of knowing that the better class of citizens voted the Whig ticket,
                    to which the Peru Sentinel, Democratic, answered as follows:
            "The State Journal man at 
                        Indianapolis
                     has already commenced showing his true feelings toward our foreign
                    population. In accounting for the recent overwhelming defeat of Whiggery in this
                    State, he says the foreign vote is the cause. They (Whigs) have the consolation
                    of knowing that all the better portion of our citizens voted the Whig ticket. If
                    this view of the case affords him consolation, it would be cruel to disturb him
                    in his agreeable fantasies."57
            
            The State election had scarcely passed by and the returns were not all in when
                    the day of the National election approached. It was November 2. Indiana and even
                    the whole Union appeared to have lost interest in the outcome. The voters were
                    aware that an election was at hand, but they failed to manifest much
                    understanding of the significance of the event. The political horizon was dimmed
                    by few signs of an approaching tempest, few traces of the terrible breakers.
                    There seemed nothing but a clear sky with all signs propitious to an era of
                    peace and industrial development. There was scarcely a breath of political
                    agitation, of any importance, stirring; everywhere was the calm, so quiet and
                    oppressive that, only to the more discerning eye, it was evident that it could
                    not long continue. Voters acquiesced with sullen silence in the conditions then
                    existing and voted to continue such conditions. The Democrats solemnly declared
                    the accomplishment of peace and prosperity to depend on the universal
                    acquiescence in and recognition of the "finality"; for the
                    Whigs, it all depended on the success of their party at the polls. The following
                    quotation from the 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Democratic Pharos, on the eve of the national battle, well
                    illustrates Democracy's position:
            "The approaching presidential election is one of the deepest interest;
                    and, indeed, it may be said without exaggeration, to be one of the most vitally
                    important that ever has been held. It is not merely, as is alleged by some, to
                    turn on a preference of men, or on a scramble for office, or mainly even on the
                    issues which hitherto divided the parties; but it is to turn principally and
                    really on the finality of the compromise, however much some
                    may attempt to conceal the fact."58
            
            
               
                  57
                        Indiana State Journal, Oct. 29, 1852.
               
                  58
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Democratic Pharos, Oct. 27, 1852.
            
            
            There is no doubt that the issue of "finality" did not
                    influence some sections of the country, but it is true that there was somewhat
                    of a scramble for office. The State Journal, on election day,
                    recounted at considerable length the dire disasters which would befall the
                    nation, in event of their opponents' triumph. It said:
            "The result of the election today is of vast consequence to the future
                    of this country. The triumph of the Democracy would see the destruction of the
                    little protection now existing. Then would the spirit of conquest and
                    lawlessness be fostered and encouraged until our country would be involved in
                    war. 
                        Cuba
                     would be seized upon and appropriated to our own use in defiance of
                    existing treaty stipulations with 
                        Spain
                    . Then would the slavery question, which so recently threatened to
                    destroy our country, and is now so happily settled, be opened again, not to be
                    closed otherwise than by a dissolution of the Union.59
            
            How true the State Journal spoke in the last sentence history
                    alone has proven. The returns from the election came to the press very slowly.
                    Two days after the election the State Journal had received
                    enough of the results to bring the editor to admit defeat. The editor deeply
                    regretted that the people put aside their famous hero for such an obscure
                    individual as Pierce. The returns for the State and national elections were
                    completed about a month afterward and published in the Indiana
                        State Journal. The following table of returns shows the vote by
                    counties for the presidential and gubernatorial candidates :60
            
            
               
                  
                  President
                  Governor
               
               
                  COUNTIES
                  Pierce
                  Scott
                  Hale
                  Wright
                  McCarty
                  Robinson
               
               
                  Adams
                  672
                  362
                  14
                  652
                  329
                  4
               
               
                  Allen
                  1,964
                  1,225
                  24
                  1,804
                  963
                  11
               
               
                  
                            
                                Bartholomew
                            
                        
                  1,512
                  1,245
                  26
                  1,412
                  1,097
                  11
               
               
                  
                            
                                Benton
                            
                        
                  138
                  110
                  19
                  144
                  106
                  --
               
               
                  
                            
                                Blackford
                            
                        
                  263
                  108
                  15
                  340
                  110
                  8
               
               
                  
                            
                                Boone
                            
                        
                  1,161
                  936
                  109
                  1,113
                  919
                  27
               
               
                  Brown
                  532
                  102
                  --
                  606
                  120
                  --
               
               
                  Carrol
                  1,256
                  1075
                  29
                  1,209
                  909
                  3
               
               
                  Cass
                  1,190
                  1,176
                  50
                  1,189
                  994
                  8
               
               
                  Clark
                  1,812
                  1,186
                  24
                  1,683
                  1,068
                  6
               
               
                  
                            
                                Clay
                            
                        
                  743
                  474
                  8
                  820
                  388
                  --
               
               
                  Clinton
                  1,250
                  929
                  75
                  1,180
                  841
                  --
               
               
                  Crawford
                  499
                  502
                  --
                  524
                  528
                  --
               
               
                  
                            
                                Daviess
                            
                        
                  720
                  726
                  6
                  795
                  549
                  --
               
               
                  
                            
                                Dearborn
                            
                        
                  2,486
                  1,474
                  89
                  2,436
                  1,477
                  15
               
               
                  
                            
                                Decatur
                            
                        
                  1,394
                  1,364
                  138
                  1,392
                  1,345
                  83
               
               
                  DeKalb
                  780
                  391
                  164
                  684
                  386
                  95
               
               
                  Delaware
                  937
                  1,083
                  11
                  892
                  991
                  3
               
            
            
               
                  59 Indian State Journal Nov. 2, 1852.
               
                  60Indiana State Journal Dec. 6 1852.
            
            
            
               
                  
                  President
                  Governor
               
               
                  COUNTIES
                  Pierce
                  Scott
                  Hale
                  Wright
                  McCarty
                  Robinson
               
               
                  Dubois
                  717
                  229
                  --
                  883
                  206
                  --
               
               
                  Elkhart
                  1,343
                  1,068
                  28
                  1,271
                  873
                  --
               
               
                  
                            
                                Fayette
                            
                        
                  872
                  1,019
                  80
                  869
                  921
                  60
               
               
                  Floyd
                  1,815
                  1,328
                  1
                  1,851
                  1,260
                  3
               
               
                  
                            
                                Fountain
                            
                        
                  1,496
                  1,023
                  64
                  1,267
                  803
                  12
               
               
                  Franklin
                  1,956
                  1,473
                  30
                  1,973
                  1,413
                  11
               
               
                  
                            
                                Fulton
                            
                        
                  581
                  559
                  6
                  561
                  522
                  --
               
               
                  Gibson
                  1,127
                  942
                  20
                  1,020
                  842
                  --
               
               
                  Grant
                  836
                  599
                  345
                  925
                  712
                  199
               
               
                  
                            
                                Greene
                            
                        
                  944
                  844
                  4
                  1,048
                  785
                  --
               
               
                  Hamilton
                  961
                  971
                  401
                  893
                  952
                  293
               
               
                  Hancock
                  1,002
                  823
                  40
                  980
                  758
                  --
               
               
                  Harrison
                  1,278
                  1,284
                  --
                  1,155
                  1,158
                  --
               
               
                  Hendricks
                  980
                  1,252
                  156
                  925
                  1,223
                  23
               
               
                  Henry
                  1,226
                  1,559
                  456
                  1,179
                  1,527
                  358
               
               
                  Howard
                  526
                  539
                  165
                  465
                  516
                  88
               
               
                  Huntington
                  888
                  706
                  38
                  797
                  682
                  --
               
               
                  Jackson
                  1,188
                  614
                  --
                  1088
                  484
                  10
               
               
                  
                            
                                Jasper
                            
                        
                  347
                  357
                  33
                  317
                  299
                  --
               
               
                  Jay
                  500
                  375
                  135
                  562
                  426
                  55
               
               
                  Jefferson
                  2,263
                  2,016
                  286
                  2,064
                  1,845
                  168
               
               
                  Jennings
                  1,104
                  998
                  59
                  1,037
                  954
                  13
               
               
                  Johnson
                  1,333
                  896
                  20
                  1,172
                  775
                  4
               
               
                  
                            
                                Knox
                            
                        
                  1,003
                  1,167
                  --
                  938
                  987
                  --
               
               
                  
                            
                                Kosciusko
                            
                        
                  938
                  1,045
                  26
                  919
                  1,000
                  16
               
               
                  LaGrange
                  677
                  677
                  117
                  746
                  709
                  --
               
               
                  Lake
                  334
                  230
                  58
                  465
                  228
                  --
               
               
                  Laporte
                  1,468
                  1,357
                  136
                  1,330
                  1,226
                  3
               
               
                  Lawrence
                  1,113
                  1,054
                  14
                  1,116
                  978
                  --
               
               
                  Madison
                  1,282
                  1,004
                  83
                  1,253
                  942
                  --
               
               
                  
                            
                                Marion
                            
                        
                  2,599
                  2,158
                  112
                  2,469
                  2,075
                  28
               
               
                  Marshall
                  511
                  343
                  56
                  508
                  322
                  18
               
               
                  Martin
                  519
                  377
                  5
                  621
                  235
                  --
               
               
                  Miami
                  1,196
                  994
                  76
                  1,139
                  924
                  --
               
               
                  
                            
                                Monroe
                            
                        
                  1,085
                  622
                  87
                  1,151
                  629
                  37
               
               
                  
                            
                                Montgomery
                            
                        
                  1,852
                  1,559
                  100
                  1,772
                  1,527
                  45
               
               
                  Morgan
                  1,181
                  1,109
                  132
                  1,158
                  1,169
                  5
               
               
                  Noble
                  807
                  606
                  79
                  779
                  587
                  25
               
               
                  Ohio
                  455
                  432
                  2
                  460
                  408
                  --
               
               
                  
                            
                                Orange
                            
                        
                  1,022
                  747
                  3
                  977
                  583
                  --
               
               
                  Owen
                  1,060
                  901
                  20
                  849
                  705
                  8
               
               
                  Parke
                  1,084
                  1,312
                  105
                  1,157
                  1,181
                  19
               
               
                  Perry
                  659
                  684
                  3
                  724
                  653
                  --
               
               
                  Pike
                  688
                  538
                  1
                  809
                  499
                  2
               
               
                  Porter
                  527
                  444
                  88
                  532
                  379
                  20
               
               
                  Posey
                  1,433
                  784
                  26
                  1,368
                  595
                  4
               
               
                  Pulaski
                  333
                  210
                  1
                  360
                  178
                  --
               
               
                  Putnam
                  1,466
                  1,712
                  22
                  1,418
                  1.448
                  --
               
               
                  Randolph
                  993
                  900
                  530
                  988
                  965
                  442
               
               
                  Ripley
                  1,386
                  1,119
                  113
                  1,466
                  1,183
                  72
               
               
                  Rush
                  1,480
                  1,507
                  119
                  1,406
                  1,466
                  51
               
               
                  Scott
                  559
                  518
                  11
                  586
                  505
                  9
               
               
                  
                            
                                Shelby
                            
                        
                  1,627
                  1,286
                  27
                  1,629
                  1,071
                  ----
               
               
                  Spencer
                  710
                  685
                  1
                  757
                  577
                  24
               
               
                  Starke
                  122
                  66
                  ----
                  144
                  51
                  ----
               
               
                  Steuben
                  543
                  487
                  90
                  502
                  503
                  41
               
               
                  
                            
                                St. Joseph
                            
                        
                  1,052
                  998
                  174
                  979
                  928
                  122
               
               
                  Sullivan
                  1,203
                  529
                  ----
                  1,188
                  399
                  ----
               
            
            
            
               
                  Switzerland
                  1,147
                  1,134
                  7
                  1,098
                  979
                  ----
               
               
                  
                            
                                Tippecanoe
                            
                        
                  2,446
                  1,918
                  143
                  1,912
                  1,471
                  77
               
               
                  
                            
                                Tipton
                            
                        
                  461
                  340
                  7
                  457
                  293
                  4
               
               
                  Union
                  626
                  584
                  149
                  611
                  576
                  86
               
               
                  Vanderburg
                  1,317
                  945
                  6
                  1,300
                  838
                  ----
               
               
                  
                            
                                Vermillion
                            
                        
                  783
                  852
                  4
                  763
                  717
                  1
               
               
                  Vigo
                  1,155
                  1,694
                  8
                  1,112
                  1,350
                  ----
               
               
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
                  959
                  1,145
                  91
                  952
                  1,018
                  ----
               
               
                  
                            
                                Warren
                            
                        
                  552
                  850
                  56
                  464
                  705
                  1
               
               
                  
                            
                                Warrick
                            
                        
                  1,034
                  487
                  31
                  1,056
                  435
                  16
               
               
                  Washington
                  1,613
                  1,093
                  11
                  1,576
                  939
                  2
               
               
                  
                            
                                Wayne
                            
                        
                  1,874
                  2,304
                  786
                  1,763
                  2,142
                  553
               
               
                  Wells
                  710
                  415
                  23
                  625
                  391
                  ----
               
               
                  White
                  536
                  510
                  13
                  497
                  453
                  ----
               
               
                  Whitely
                  568
                  497
                  11
                  550
                  462
                  1
               
               
                  Total
                  95,299
                  80,901
                  6,934
                  92,576
                  73,641
                  3,303
               
            
            The vote for Hale and Julian was unexpectedly small, having decreased about
                    one-fourth in Indiana since the preceding presidential election. This party, the
                    Free Soil, had served its purpose and could no longer exist as a separate
                    organization.
            For the session of 1852-53, the Indiana State Legislature was composed as
                    follows: 
                  
                     
                     Dem.
                     Whig.
                  
                  
                     Senate
                     34
                     16
                  
                  
                     House of Representatives
                     66
                     34
                  
               
            
            When the result was commonly known as a Democratic triumph, the Whig papers began
                    their work as "calamity howlers," each for its own community
                    predicting great evils to come upon the nation during the next administration.
                    The Indiana State Journal started out two days after the
                    election with the following:
            "The forcible extension of slavery and the formation of a batch of slave
                    States will again unchain the spirit of disunion and civil war. Such will be the
                    legitimate result of the late election, and we say–let it
                    come! We want to see the writhing of those who will have thus brought
                    upon the country so terrible a scourge."
            The editor was partly correct in his prediction.
            The Democrats celebrated their victory in such a half-hearted manner that the
                    Whigs expressed disappointment. The Democrats were neither surprised nor
                    gratified at their success. They expected to carry the elections but probably
                    never dreamed of the magnitude of their victory, which, great as it was, failed
                    to arouse the old-time enthusiasm.
            
            The election had resulted in a sweeping defeat of the Whig forces.
                        The seriousness of the disaster was not immediately apparent, although
                    some of the wise men in the party, like Greeley, and a few Democratic editors
                    pretended to see the total dissolutiton of the Whig party at hand. The 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Daily Ledger was one of the Democratic papers which firmly
                    believed that the Whig party had been killed and now would be superseded by a
                    new party, the Seward-Abolition party. On November 16, the Daily
                        Ledger carried the following article on the future of the Whig party,
                    written by Horace Greeley for his 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune:
            
            "General Scott is overwhelmingly defeated, and the Whig party not merely
                    discomfited but annihilated. We have no prophetic ken, and make no pretensions
                    to reading the future; but we do not see how the Whig party as such can ever be
                    rallied again. Defeat is but accidental, to which any party may be subjected;
                    but a defeat based on comprehensive, systematic treachery, like that just
                    experienced (through Fillmore and Webster), can hardly be other than
                    conclusive."
            After considering the effect which the election did have on the Whig party, the
                    only conclusion is that Horace Greeley was right in his belief.
            IX THE CONCLUSION
            
            Democracy's triumph in 1852 was nothing more than a barren victory.
                    The battle in Indiana had been fought listlessly and with little popular
                    interest. Although there had been occasions when enthusiasm was displayed, yet
                    the political meetings had lacked the life and spirit of the preceding
                    campaigns. The spirit of a political campaign depends almost wholly upon the
                    interest aroused in the issues. In this campaign the issues no longer deserved
                    the name; they were dead, notwithstanding the efforts of the politicians to
                    inject life into the "finality" question. The politicians
                    fought over the carrion of extinct political questions; they fought for the
                    offices, for there was little else at stake. Office was the real issue, and its
                    cause was championed by Democrats and Whigs alike. Victory meant no triumph of
                    political principles; instead, it carried with it this time only jobs for so
                    many hungry aspirants. Voters went to the polls because they had to discharge a
                    citizens' duty, not with the belief that their vote was needed to
                    help onward some all-important issue.
            The result of the elections this year, favorable as they were to the Democrats,
                    was not an indication or proof that the Democrats  had made a glorious, aggressive fight against a
                    worthy and valian foe. The Democrats appeared to be united, but the Free Soil
                    element of the party stayed away from the polls. The Whigs had hat to fight
                    disunion and sedition within their own ranks during the campaign, so they were
                    in no condition to win from the Democrats hosts already strongly intrenched in
                    the State offices and backed be well-organized party machinery. Occasionally
                    there were heard, ir those days, the complaints of the party masses against the
                    bad practices of the machine politicians who were the men that forced the
                    compromise legislation upon the people. The Democratic leaders were very
                    successful in bringing their followers to believe that
                    "finality" of the compromise legislation was absolutely
                    necessary to the continued existence of the Union. Many Democrats considered
                    that they were performing a patriotic service by voting to keep in office the
                    political leaders who had enacted the compromise measures two years before.
                    Others in this party were uninfluenced by the plea of the politicians. It is
                    impossible to know what might have happened if there had been no general
                    acquiescence in the finality; civil war then, instead of a decade later, might
                    have resulted.
            The campaign and election of 1852 marked the last important contest by the Whigs.
                    The Jacksonian Democracy, likewise, made its final stand at this same time.
                    Hereafter the Free Soil men, the Conscience Whigs and the Jacksonian Democrats
                    were to be found fighting together for a common cause. Two short years
                    intervened until a new political organization arose from the ashes of the old
                    Whig party, a new organization which included almost all the leading Democratic
                    editors of Indiana in its ranks. That element of Indiana Democracy, in the
                    Northern part of the State, which complained because they were accorded such
                    slight recognition in the selection of the Democratic State ticket, was ready to
                    shift its support to any party that would treat it fairly. And that element of
                    the Whig party which believed that its rights had been violated and its protests
                    stifled by the Whig politicians during the Slavery controversy, gladly welcomed
                    the opportunity for the political freedom offered by the new party. By the time
                    another National election was at hand, these various elements were fighting side
                    by side under the common banner of Republicanism. The most significant result of
                    the election of 1852 was that it laid the foundations of a new political
                    organization, the Republican party.
         
         
         
            Samuel Merrill, Indiana's Second State Treasurer (1792-1855)
            (FROM THE PAPERS OF CATHARINE MERRILL.)
            Samuel Merrill, born October 29, 1792, in 
                        Peacham
                    , 
                        Vermont
                    , and died in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , August 24, 1855, was the second son of Jesse and Priscilla
                    Merrill. The first American Merrill was a 
                        Puritan
                     who left 
                        England
                     in 1637, and settled the next year in 
                        Ipswich
                    , 
                        Massachusetts
                    . His name was Nathaniel. His descendants in a direct line to the
                    subject of the present notice, were Abel, Nathaniel, Samuel, Samuel and Jesse.
                    The second Samuel lost his father when very young, and seems to have been thrown
                    entirely on his own resources; which, however, were sufficient. By farming and
                    lumbering he acquired a handsome property. He joined the Revolutionary army
                    during Burgoyne's invasion, and as captain of a company, was present
                    at the surrender at 
                        Saratoga
                    .
            The following paragraph from a private letter written by a granddaughter of
                    Captain Merrill gives something of his character, as well as that of his wife:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        "Our grandfather was a man of a good deal of energy and
                                    independence of character, with great firmness and tenacity of
                                    purpose. Of course, this made an enterprising man. Such he was.
                                    His business extended over much of 
                                        New Hampshire
                                     and 
                                        Vermont
                                    . Withal he was eminently social, quick at repartee,
                                    a most genial companion, and not wanting in the little comities
                                    of life. Now, if you have known in any of his descendants, a
                                    something of the severe (not sour or morose, hardly indeed
                                    severe) with an apparent determination not to be driven to talk,
                                    and an ability to confer with one's self,
                                    notwithstanding surroundings, added to all a sarcasm seldom
                                    used, but always ready and keen as 'Damascene
                                    blade,' making the flesh to quiver at the thought of
                                    it, I say when you find these traits, it is their inheritance
                                    from Abigail Eaton, the wife of Samuel Merrill, a woman of great
                                    excellence of character and propriety of manner, of whom all the
                                    world were ready to aver that she never uttered a wrong or
                                    useless word.  Is it to be
                                    wondered that nine 'live' boys, reared by
                                    such a mother with no sister, should lack somewhat the effects
                                    of a softening influence?"
                     
                  
               
                
            These nine rugged sons were accustomed to steady labor, and were sometimes
                    subjected to severe hardships in rafting and boating wood and ship timber on the
                        Merrimack river. None of them formed bad habits. The
                    oldest children, Jesse was the second, received but a limited education. Jesse
                    Merrill married Priscilla Kimball, and took her immediately to a new farm he had
                    begun making in 
                        Peacham
                    , 
                        Vermont
                    . He was an industrious farmer, an active and upright citizen. He
                    held at different times numerous town offices, and was four years a member of
                    the 
                        Vermont
                     legislature. Both he and his wife took great pains to supply their
                    want of early education, and to gratify in their children a stronger than
                    ordinary love of knowledge. Mrs. Merrill was in all the relations of life noble
                    and excellent. In their love and admiration of her, her children were
                    enthusiasts. When in after life they instructed their own daughters, they
                    illustrated their idea of womanhood by the tender, generous and just character
                    of their mother.
            For forty years Peacham was happy in one minister, and that one a good and great
                    man, the Rev. Leonard Worcester. The town was fortunate also in its academy,
                    celebrated for many years among the good schools of 
                        New England
                    . Under the influence of Mr. Worcester, whose preaching everybody
                    attended, and of the excellent teachers in the academy, seven Merrill children,
                    six boys and one girl, grew to maturity. James was the eldest son, Samuel the
                    second. The two brothers went to school together, read the same books, and
                    continually talked over together what they heard and read. The encouragement
                    they thus gave each other was such that when rewards for excelling at school
                    were proposed, neither of them ever failed. When the boys were respectively ten
                    and seven years old, it was proposed that all the scholars in the academy, who
                    by a particular day could not be caught in Webster's spelling book,
                    should be entitled to a picture book. On the arrival of the day, the boys and
                    girls, about one hundred in number, were placed on the outside seats of a large
                    room to change their places to the center of the room as they missed. Among
                    seven, who held out to the last, the two youngest were James and Samuel. The
                    influences of the prizes they then won were not lost on either  of them. Confidence that they could succeed enabled
                    them to succeed,
            At the beginning of 1800 the attention of the whole. civilized world was fixed
                    upon the career of Napoleon. "Peacham corner" had an interest
                    scarcely less keen and vivid than that of 
                        London
                    . News came from 
                        Boston
                     once a week, the stage arriving at eight or nine in the evening. On
                    mail day the two boys, after the farm work, which was no light matter, would
                    plod through the darkness, nearly two miles to the postoffice, feeling
                    themselves amply rewarded as they carried home the 
                        Boston
                     Journal. The Merrill children were all voracious readers, and they
                    acquired an accurate knowledge of Josephus and other books of like character
                    that formed their father's small library.
            From the academy, James and Samuel entered Dartmouth College. After graduating,
                    the elder left to teach school and study law in 
                        York
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the younger joining him the next year, 1813. The school employed
                    besides the two brothers, Thaddeus Stevens and John Blanchard, also from Peacham
                    and from Dartmouth, and also students of law. The friendship of these young men,
                    formed in boyhood, continued through life. A year or two before the death of
                    Thaddeus Stevens, in that memorable winter, when the feeble but fierce old man
                    seemd to cling to life but to denounce dishonest and half-hearted measures and
                    cut right and left with the double-edged sword of his satire, a visitor to 
                        Washington
                     referred in his presence to the friend of his youth, Samuel
                    Merrill. The old man in a breaking voice, but still mindful of the present,
                    exclaimed, "Ah, why is it that he is dead! Why should
                    heaven, already thronged with the pure and noble, rob us of one so needed
                    here!"
            After three years in 
                        York
                    , Mr. Merrill came to Indiana, and, looking first at 
                        Vincennes
                    , determined to settle in 
                        Vevay
                    . He found it impossible to get a conveyance from 
                        New Albany
                    , and he bought a boat, and putting in it his trunk and a number of
                    law books, he rowed himself seventy miles up the river to 
                        Vevay
                    . He was then twenty-four years old. To the last week of his life he
                    retained this vigorous self-reliance. When he was fifty-seven he rowed an equal
                    distance with one assistant, in an open boat on the 
                        Mississippi
                    , carrying the drowned and coffined body of a little  grandson from the woods near 
                        New Madrid
                    , 
                        Missouri
                    , where it had been buried by strangers.
            Within a year from the time he began to practice law, Mr. Merrill married Lydia
                    Jane Anderson, the daughter of a widow in 
                        Vevay
                    .
            It is not a little singular in the history of Samuel Merrill, of the two brothers
                    next younger than he, and of his elder brother, that none of them for near ten
                    years after they commenced professional life did anything more than to pave the
                    way for future operations. If they had used spirits even moderately it is not
                    unlikely that the small sums required for this would have interfered materially
                    with their ultimate success, and Mr. Merrill was confident that if he had used
                    tobacco, the seed of future prosperity would either never have been planted or
                    would have failed to come to perfection. Mr. Merrill represented 
                        Switzerland county
                     two years in the legislature, then in session at 
                        Corydon
                    . Iti 1825 he became state treasurer and removed to Corydon. The
                    intelligence of his son's election to the office of treasurer
                    prompted the following paragraph in one of his father's letters:
                    "If you don't honor the office, it will not honor you.
                    Remember that he that rises must fall. While you are going up, prepare for
                    retreat, not as the unjust steward did, but by being honest to your trust. He
                    that depends on the flatteries of the world must know that the flatterer will
                    turn against him when it suits his turn." The old Yankee farmer was
                    most concerned that his son should be honest. And the son was honest. It was
                    said of him, thirty years after the date of this letter, that "red hot
                    balls would have been as tolerable to his palms as the smallest coin that he
                    believed another's."
            In November, 1824, Mr. Merrill removed to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He held the office of treasurer until in 1834 he was elected
                    president of the State Bank of Indiana. In this office he remained until in 1844
                    he was made president of the 
                        Madison
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad Company, which position he held four years. In the period
                    of comparative leisure which followed, he compiled with great industry and
                    research the Indiana Gazetteer, a third edition of ten
                    thousand copies of which was published in 1850.
            His beloved wife died in 1847. His second wife was Elizabeth D. Young, of 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, previously of 
                        Chambersburg
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .
            
            In 1850 he bought out Hood & Noble's book store, and united
                    with it the business of publisher. Not feeling satisfied with the Gazetteer, he meditated a thorough revision of the work. But, after a
                    week's illness, in the midst of his activity, he died. He had but a
                    short time before in conversation expressed the wish that if it accorded with
                    the will of 
                        Providence
                     he might die before old age sapped his energies.
            "Mr. Merrill was a man of superior abilities and attainments. His
                    judgment was sound, his perceptions clear, and his memory retentive. Probably no
                    man could tell so many incidents and anecdotes illustrative of the early history
                    of the state, or could have woven his knowledge into a more interesting or
                    instructive narrative. Though never eminent as a speaker, his clearness and
                    decision made him a valuable councillor and useful officer."
            His life was exceedingly laborious. While president of the State Bank, he visited
                    twice a year, never once omitting the duty, every bank in the state, giving
                    careful personal examinations to accounts and ledgers. (He could run over
                    columns of figures with a machine-like rapidity and accuracy.) He usually made
                    his journeys on horseback, often through roads indescribably bad, and though a
                    most humane man to animals, several horses were sacrificed to the terrible roads
                    and the necessity of speed. When he travelled in the stage his good humor, his
                    fund of anecdote, the flow of thought, playful or serious, furnished by his
                    richly stored mind, shortened to his fellow passengers the hours of dreary
                    dragging through swampy woods. Not only his powers of conversation were at the
                    service of strangers. He used to declare that nobody knew how to travel in this
                    country who could not walk and carry a rail; and his rail often served a whole
                    company. Once he walked all night long, nineteen miles, carrying a lantern
                    before the stage, on the horrible old 
                        Madison
                     road, reaching home just at daylight.
            "Mr. Merrill took up the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad when it was languishing near Vernon, and accomplished more
                    in track laying in two years than had been done in ten years before, bringing
                    the road into 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and starting in its career of railroad importance the city that he
                    had named when a legislator in 
                        Corydon
                    , and to which he had brought the archives and given its original
                    importance when treasurer of state."
            His careful attention to details may be illustrated by his action  during one of those spring floods that sometimes
                    sweep everything before them. He sat all night in a terrible storm, fending the
                    drift from the abutments of a bridge which but for this care would have been
                    swept away.
            A sudden rise in Pleasant Run at one time excited his solicitude in regard to the
                    regular 
                        Madison
                     train, and unwilling to trust a messenger, he hurried himself to
                    the spot, two miles south of town. The train was approaching. He made vehement
                    gestures for it to stop. The engineer misunderstanding his signals, rushed on
                    and across. Mr. Merrill was prostrated by the agony of mind he endured for about
                    one minute. Good humored, cheerful and patient as he was, with a tenderness that
                    made his eye fill, and his lips quiver at the sight of another's woe,
                    a hand open as the day to melting charity, and ever a deferential respect for
                    man as man in any rank or class of society, he was utterly intolerant of
                    meanness, of hardness, and even of thoughtlessness. His anger was quick, flaming
                    and fierce like lightning. One said of him, and said well, "He
                    maintained in sublime combination the sternest ideas of justice with the most
                    beautiful simplicity and childlike sweetness of manners."
            "He was impulsive, and may sometimes have been imprudent," said
                    one of his old friends, "but he was made of heroic stuff and more like
                    our revolutionary fathers than any man I ever met."
            For years, during the early history of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a band of rowdies in and about the town, persecuted negroes, threw
                    rotten eggs at 
                        Abolitionists
                    , disturbed religious meetings, and waged war generally against
                    peace and order. Mr. Merrill was outspoken in denunciation of these rascals,
                    threatening them with the severities of the law. The ringleader of the gang came
                    into the bank one day prepared for fight. Mr. Merrill laughingly looked up from
                    his desk as the rowdy, with coat off and sleeves rolled up, dared any man to lay
                    hands on him, and said, "Mr. B., you brag too much."
                    "Come out," roared the bully, "and try me."
                    Out stepped the banker in his neat broadcloth and floored the bully three times
                    in succession. The fellow picked himself up without a word, sneaked off, and
                    never again took an active part in public disturbances. Years after, one bitter
                    cold night, Mr. Merrill was roused from sleep by the voice of a drunkard in what
                    was then a lane back of his house. He hurried on his clothes and went some
                    distance  to rescue the man from the cold.
                    Bringing him in, making a fire and preparing a bed for him, he discovered that
                    the helpless creature was his old antagonist. If not the first, Mr. Merrill was
                    one of the first presidents of the Temperance Society of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and of the State Colonization Society. He took an active part in
                    educational movements, taught school several times, was a trustee of 
                        Wabash
                     College, superintendent of the First Methodist Sabbath school, and
                    of the Second and Fourth Presbyterian. He was an elder in both the latter
                    churches. His love of books never waned. The delight with which in his youth he
                    read the Woverly Novels as they came from the hand of the
                    "Great Magician" was scarcely greater than that with which in
                    his later years he pondered over Neander, Ranke, Macaulay, or Carlyle. If at
                    sixteen his enjoyment in literature was more intense, at sixty it was more
                    profound. As his humanity comprehended men of all classes and character, so his
                    taste in literature, while pure and refined, was universal. With all his ardor
                    and activity, Mr. Merrill was modest even to timidity. Much of the good that he
                    did was never known to others, and was not remembered by himself. But
                    "the memory of the just shall live."
         
         
         
            Settlement of Worthington and Old Point Commerce
            By ROBERT WEEMS, Worthington
            EARLY SETTLERS
            
            The region which now embraces 
                        Greene county
                    , Indiana, was once the home of the Piankeshaw Indians, a tribe
                    which belonged to the Miami federation. In about the year 1767 the Piankeshaws
                    made a treaty with the 
                        Delaware
                     Indians who thereby gained certain privileges, although actual
                    possession was not relinquished by the former tribe.
            About the beginning of the nineteenth century the fertile lands of this region
                    began to attract the white man. Prior to that time the only pale faces who had
                    visited this region were explorers and trappers who passed up and down
                        White river in canoes at intervals. Among these first
                    visitors were the Jesuit missionaries, who were always well received among the
                    Indians.
            It was about the year 1805 or 1806 that the first white men began to visit this
                    territory with a view of forming settlements. They came from 
                        Vincennes
                     which had been established about 100 years and was known as the
                    "Old Post."
            The exploring parties from 
                        Vincennes
                     had carried home favorable reports of the fertility of the lands
                    lying along White river and our own meandering
                        Eel river. These explorers came in pirogues or canoes,
                    by the river route, that being the only line of travel except the Indian trails
                    through the forests. Consequently the first settlements were formed along the
                    rivers. Much of the adjacent territory being wet and marshy, elevated localities
                    were chosen as sites for settlements.
            The bold bluff, later known as Point Commerce, had long attracted the eye of the
                    voyagers and explorers, and as a result one of the first settlements in what is
                    now 
                        Greene county
                     was formed on that elevation. It is known that a settlement was
                    formed there as early as 1812. In a few years considerable of a settlement  had been established and clearings cut in
                    the forest in that locality.
            Among the first settlers were Edmond Jean, Edward Dyer, Samuel Dyer, Richard Wall
                    and Thomas Smith. Later there came George Griffith, John Sanders, Caleb Jessup,
                    James Stalcup, Thomas Stalcup, John Jessup, Jonathan Osborn, Eli Dickson, Thomas
                    Clark, William Winters, Hiram Hicks, John Craig, John Stanley, Benjamin
                    Shoemaker, William Lemons, Joab Wilsher, Henry Littlejohn and others. Some of
                    these pioneers have descendants who are among the leading families of today.
                    They entered land and acquired titles which have passed down to their posterity.
                    Cabins were built, fields were cleared and homes were made in the forests. These
                    settlers were hardy backwoodsmen, long accustomed to the hardships and
                    privations of a life in the forests. In a few years the settlement at Point
                    Commerce had spread over the adjacent territory.
            Their cabins grew in number, their clearings broadened into fields and conditions
                    improved each year. Corn was the principal crop, but soon wheat was sown and
                    orchards were planted. Samuel Dyer and Richard Wall' raised the first
                    wheat. It was threshed, or beaten out, with flails on quilts in the door yards
                    of the raisers.
            Richard Wall, who had brought a quart of apple seed from 
                        North Carolina
                    , divided with his neighbors and in time each settler had a small
                    orchard. Cotton was raised, spun and woven. Some raised sheep and wool was
                    carded, spun and woven into cloth. Everybody wore home-spun and hand-made
                    garments in those days.
            By the resistless encroachment of the pale faces the Red Men had been pushed back
                    before a settlement was ever formed in this region; consequently the pioneers
                    were in no danger of Indian massacre. The war-whoop, the tomahawk and the
                    scalping knife had lost their terror and the block house was not a necessity in 
                        Greene county
                    .
            Yet the pioneers remembered the sufferings and the dangers of what they called
                    "early days" in other places. From such dangers the first
                    settlers of this region were exempt. Yet their hardships and privations were
                    great. They were the advance guard which blazed the way for the civilization
                    which we enjoy and to them we owe a debt of gratitude we can never pay. Let us
                    perpetuate their memory.
            This is one of our purposes in publishing this brief history.
            
            An absorbing interest, which excels the most thrilling romance, permeates the
                    story of the pioneers who first hewed homes out of the forests.
            Volumes have been written about the adventures, dangers and hardships of the
                    forerunners of civilization, who enacted the first chapter in the wonderful
                    drama which transformed a wilderness into a populous land of culture and
                    advancement, yet the most facile pen, the most gifted tongue and the deepest
                    research fail to exhaust the subject or to do full justice to the brave men and
                    women who were the links in the chain of history which transformed the
                    wilderness.
            Before the old town of Point Commerce, at the rivers' junction, was
                    started, a settlement had been formed in that locality and was slowly spreading
                    over the adjacent territory. The cabins had steadily increased in number and
                    grown in dimensions, year by year. Log houses were the only homes outside the
                    village, for a full generation.
            The people were happy and contented amid their primitive surroundings. The first
                    settlers had each "entered" a large tract of land, and,
                    consequently, the cabins and clearings were widely separated. One's
                    nearest neighbor often lived three miles away. Yet they visited and mingled in a
                    very neighborly way.
            Neighbors exchanged visits in cordial hospitality. Often the whole family went
                    and spent a day with a neighbor, perhaps several miles away. "Come,
                    bring your knitting and the children and stay all day," was the common
                    form of invitation for the women; while "our latch-string hangs
                    out" meant that a hospitable welcome awaited the guest.
            Ox teams did all heavy hauling and sleds were used instead of wagons. A carriage
                    was seldom seen in those days. To possess a family carriage would have been
                    considered positive evidence of great wealth. The wagons had wooden axles and
                    linchpins.
            Social gatherings were not overlooked in early days. The neighbors held
                    corn-huskings, apple-cuttings, and frolics, at which both old and young
                    assembled. While the young folks danced, to the stirring strains of the fiddle,
                    the old folks looked on in admiration and talked their homely matters over, in
                    mutual exchange.
            People rode horseback, or walked to church, parties or other  places. To own a horse, saddle and bridle was the
                    ambition of every young man. When a beau desired to accompany his sweetheart
                    home from church, or to escort her to a dance, she rode behind him on horseback.
                    Often jolly crowds of young folks enjoyed a ride on big bob-sleds in winter when
                    the snow was deep.
            COUNTY ORGANIZATION
            
            
               
                        Greene county
                     was organized in 1821. Prior to that time it had been a part of
                    Sullivan county, and the county seat was at 
                        Carlisle
                    . Those who had official business to transact had to ride to that
                    town. Previously both had been a part of 
                        Knox county
                    , 
                        Vincennes
                     being the county seat. All official business was transacted there.
                    Those who had county business to transact went to that town, which had been
                    settled in October, 1702.1 
                        Carlisle
                     is the next oldest town in the state, it is claimed.
            The first county election was held at the home of Thomas Bradford. The following
                    officers were elected: Norman W. Pearce and John L. Buskirk, associate judges;
                    John Seaman, county sheriff; Thomas Warnick, county clerk; Thomas Bradford,
                    collector; John Owen, county treasurer; George Shroyer, county recorder. All
                    were required to swear that they had not engaged in duels, either as principals
                    or as seconds, and had not challenged any man to fight a duel.
            The first county seat was at 
                        Burlington
                    , that being the exact geographical center of the county. It was on
                    the east bank of White river, directly opposite the pioneer
                    town of Fairplay. A city was laid off in the woods, a public square was located
                    and a courthouse erected at a cost of $250. The county officials had
                    their offices there and court was held there, from May, 1822, to May, 1823. A
                    well was dug, but no water could be obtained. The old well still is located on
                    the original public square, which is now a part of the farm of Nicholas Flater,
                    of Richland township.
            Two roads were surveyed, one running north and south and the other east and west,
                    to the county lines. No town, it appears, was ever established there, although 
                        Burlington
                     was laid off for a city. A ferry was operated across
                        White river to Fairphy, where there were a few stores
                    and several homes.
            On finding that water was not obtainable at the site selected, 
                  
                     1 This date is doubtful.–Ed.
               
                     a petition was submitted to the legislature
                    praying to have the county seat relocated. The prayer of the petitioners was
                    granted and a commission appointed to choose another site for the county seat.
                    This commission consisted of Amos Rogers, William White, Charles Polk and
                    Abraham Case.
            Owing to the fact that Fairplay was so near the center of the county and being a
                    town, and having plenty of good water, all expected that it would be selected as
                    the county seat. Yet the citizens of the village were too confident and offered
                    no inducement. But the citizens of 
                        Bloomfield
                     showed more enterprise and offered the necessary inducements. A
                    site was offered free and the county seat was located at 
                        Bloomfield
                    , in 1823, and still remains there.
            When 
                        Greene county
                     was first organized it was subdivided into five townships as
                    follows:
            Highland: Which included what are now Jefferson, Smith, Wright and Highland
                    townships; so named on account of the hills along White and
                        Eel rivers.
            Richland: Which included what are now Fairplay, Grant, Stockton and Richland
                    townships.
            Burlingame: Which included what are now Beech Creek, Center and Jackson
                    townships.
            Plummer: Which included what are now Taylor and Cass townships.
            Stafford: Which included what are now 
                        Washington
                     and Stafford townships.
            The first settlement in 
                        Greene county
                     was formed at Point Commerce in 1812.
            The second settlement in 
                        Greene county
                     was formed at Fairplay, on White river, five
                    miles below Point Commerce. It had ISO inhabitants. After a brief existence the
                    old town perished. There was a ford just above the ferry.
            Newberry, on White river, was the third town in 
                        Greene county
                    . It was settled in 1822, when a store was opened there by John
                    Ritter. Mike Neff erected a grist mill and started a ferry. In canal days
                    Newberry was a place of importance. It is still a prosperous little town.
            The fourth settlement formed in 
                        Greene county
                     was at 
                        Bloomfield
                    . This became the county seat in 1823.
            
            The fifth settlement in this county was at 
                        Scotland
                    , on Doan's creek, in 1834. That is now a quiet hamlet.
            The sixth settlement in 
                        Greene county
                     was made at 
                        Linton
                    , then called New Jerusalem. It is now a prosperous and pretentious
                    city.
            In 1828 Jefferson and old Eel River townships were formed.
                    They remained separate townships until 1881 when they were merged into one,
                    under the name of the former, Jefferson. Old Eel River
                    township lay between White and Eel
                    rivers and extended northward to the county line. The first
                    settlement was in that locality, which is still often designated by its orginal
                    name.
            Upon the formation of Eel River township an election was
                    held at the home of Mr. Dayhuff and the following officers were elected:
                    Election inspector, Henry Little John; fence viewers, Alexander Watson and
                    Jonathan Brashears; overseers of the poor, John Sanders and Caleb Jessup.
            The second election in old Eel River township was held at
                    the home of Mr. Sanders, when the officers chosen were as follows: Election
                    inspector, Ephriam Owen; road superintendents, Richard Wall and G. W. Haton;
                    overseers of the poor, Caleb Jessup and John Archer; fence viewers, Herbert
                    Sanders and Henry Smith.
            The first elections were held in private homes, later in mills, and afterwards in
                    the school houses.
            The hotel and tavern rates were fixed by law as follows:
            Dinner, 25 cents; breakfast, 20 cents; supper, 20 cents; corn and hay for horse,
                    25 cents; whiskey, ½ pint, 12½ cents; cider, quart,
                    12½ cents; rum, ½ pint, 37½ cents; brandy,
                    ½ pint, 50 cents, board and lodging, week $2.00,
                    horsekeeping, week, $1.25.
            The market prices for country produce and live stock were very low in those days.
            Corn was 10 cents per bushel; wheat, 35 cents; cows, $7.50 per head;
                    chickens, 6 cents each; turkeys, 25 cents each. The subscription for a weekly
                    newspaper was $2.50 per year.
            Officers of the law were permitted to arrest fugitive slaves and recover pay for
                    their keeping, until returned to their owners. John Seaman, one of the first
                    sheriffs of 
                        Greene county
                    , was allowed $14 for arresting and keeping one runaway
                    slave, two weeks. William Lemons, constable, was allowed $8.00 for
                    arresting and keeping a fugitive slave for a few days.
            
            The usual fee of a minister or a squire for performing a marriage ceremony in
                    early days was 25 cents. Sometimes, the groom desiring to be especially liberal,
                    the preacher was paid 50 cents.
            POINT COMMERCE
            
            The Divine Architect of the Universe built a town site at the junction of
                        White and Eel rivers. Owing to its
                    advantageous situation it was named Point Commerce. It grew steadily and became
                    the best town on White river. Stores were started, ferries
                    established, shops were opened, saw-mills were located, boats were built and the
                    pioneer village continued to thrive.
            The first merchant was J. M. H. Allison, who settled there and opened a general
                    store in 1835. Shortly afterward he was joined by his brother, J. F. Allison,
                    who surveyed and named the village. In addition to a large general store the
                    firm engaged extensively in the pork-packing business and in the purchase of the
                    products of the farms, which they shipped to 
                        New Orleans
                    . Sometimes the Allison, Brothers shipped twenty-five or thirty
                    flatboat loads of pork, furs, lumber and grain to the southern market in one
                    season.
            They built a big pork-house on Eel river, near where it
                    empties into White river. The farmers slaughtered their
                    hogs and sold them, dressed, to the pork-packers. They also established a double
                    ferry, where the rivers met.
            Allison & Allison built a large hotel which was called the Junction
                    House. It became a famous hotel among river men. There was an old saying:
                    "The Junction House is good enough for 
                        Philadelphia
                    ." The old hotel was brought to Worthington in later years
                    and now forms a part of the Commercial House.
            J. M. H. Allison also erected a fine two-story brick house, which still stands
                    and is now owned and occupied by Jasper Hutchinson. Mr. Allison was an
                    adventurous speculator. It is said he sank a large fortune at Point Commerce.
            In time more merchants came and other lines of business were established so that
                    Point Commerce gave promise of becoming a great city. There were blacksmiths,
                    wagon makers, tailors, tinners, a turning lathe, a cabinet maker, a tannery, a
                    saloon (then called a "grocery"), a saw-mill, a grist-mill and
                    finally a distillery and a powder mill.
            Goods for the stores were bought in 
                        New York
                    , shipped to  Pittsburg, floated
                    down to 
                        Louisville
                     on flatboats and then hauled in wagons to Point Commerce.
            Ferries were established. One ferry across White river was
                    operated by Thomas Smith, about where the wagon bridge now spans that stream.
                    Another ferry was started north of Point Commerce by Jonathan Osborn. Later, the
                    village having become a thriving business center, a double ferry was started at
                    the junction of the rivers. Another ferry was started across Eel
                    river, where the wagon bridge now spans that stream.
            Some years later a wagon bridge was built over Eel river,
                    just above where the I. & V. railroad bridge is now located. The large
                    rocks on the south bank of that stream formed a natural abutment for that end of
                    the old wooden bridge. A wagon road ran along the ridge, now known as
                    Hays' Heights, and descended to the bridge where the orchard of
                    Herman Kautz is located.
            In time a large brick Methodist church was built. Later it was razed and the
                    brick used to build the residence now owned and occupied by Marcus Hays.
            A two-story frame building was erected, the lower story being used as school room
                    and the upper story as a Masonic Hall. Later this building was transferred to
                    Worthington and used as a carpenter shop by Squire Riggs. It still stands, near
                    the Water & Light Plant.
            A grist-mill and saw-mill combined stood on the east Dank of Eel
                    river at the old "Indian ford." Later, a carding
                    mill and subsequently a weaving department were added. Lumber was sawed, cloth
                    was woven, flour, meal and feed were ground and shipped down the river to the
                    southern market. That important industry was owned and operated, in later years,
                    by Samuel Miller, father of F. N. Miller. There were two saw-mills on
                        Eel river between the first wagon bridge and
                        White river.
            Later, another pork house was built on the east bank of Eel
                    river, just above where the wagon bridge now spans the stream. It.
                    was established by E. H. Sabin, who was a preacher as well as a pork-packer.
            W. C. Andrews, father of W. C. Andrews, the hardware merchant, came in 1839 and
                    opened a general store. Later, the firm became Andrews & Topping. In
                    addition to conducting a large general store they did an extensive shipping
                    business.
            
            Among the pioneer business men and firms of Old Point Commerce were the
                    following:
            J. M. H. and J. F. Allison, W. C. Andrews, John Barekman, Andrews &
                    Toppings, Mclntyre & Jaquis, Joseph Miller, general merchants; William
                    Bradshaw, cabinet maker; Wilson Helms, carpenter; T. Messick and J. Stanley,
                    tailors; J. Barekeman, squire; John Beach and James Abbott, shoemakers; Sam and
                    Alf Willy, blacksmiths; William Wooden, wagon maker; Bob Leach, wood workman;
                    Fount Gooley, harness and saddle-maker; Isreal Carroll, coffins and undertaking;
                    Jesse Brazier, brewer and baker; Jesse Brazier, saloon; Sam Miller, saw-mill;
                    Aaron Craigg, woolen mill; John Sanders, distillery; Jonathan Osborn, powder
                    mill; William Bays, squire.
            Mr. W. G. Sanders, of Point Commerce, whose grandparents were among the first
                    settlers, recalled the names of merchants and other pioneers, besides many
                    interesting events in the old flat-boat days, when Point Commerce was in her
                    prime. Mr. Sanders remembers when his father had a distillery and made corn
                    whisky, apple brandy and peach brandy.
            Often he would haul a barrel of whisky to other points, in an ox-cart, and sell
                    it at 12½ cents per gallon.
            Mr. Sanders remembers Rev. Eli Farmer, pioneer circuit rider, who preached at
                    Point Commerce. He was a great exhorter.
            The first school house, which Mr. Sanders recalls was a small brick structure,
                    which stood near where the residence of B. F. Hays is situated.
            "In those days," said Mr. Sanders, "the people made
                    the jeans and woolseys for their clothes which were all home-made. When I was a
                    boy, drunkenness was much more common than it is now. The elections were then
                    held in August. Several rough and tumble fist fights always occurred on every
                    election day, as well as at all horse races or other public
                    gatherings."
            Before the first cabins were built by white men at Point Commerce, the last
                    tepees of the red men had disappeared. But occasionally a roving band of Indians
                    visited the place. They were peaceful and some of them could speak
                    "broken" English. If on foot or on horseback, they traveled
                    single file, and crossed Eel river at the old Indian ford.
                    But more often they floated leisurely down the streams in canoes, stopping here
                    and there to hunt and to barter with the whites.
            
            In September, 1819, a band of redskins visited this region. They numbered 300,
                    and belonged to a single tribe, probably the Piankeshaws. They were on horseback
                    and passed along the old Indian trail and crossed Eel river
                    at the old Indian ford, a fourth mile north of where the wagon bridge now spans
                    this stream.
            A few days later another band of Indians, numbering 200, floated down
                        White river in bark canoes and camped at the mouth of
                        Eel river. That was on Sunday, September 30, 1819.
            The date of this last visit of the Indians is fixed by the fact that a wedding of
                    a pioneer white couple occurred on that day. It was probably the first wedding
                    solemnized in the old Point Commerce settlement. John Fires and Miss Martha
                    Craig were married at noon that day by Alexander Craig, who had a grist-mill at
                    the junction of White and Eel rivers.
                    The entire settlement had assembled to celebrate the first wedding.
            Directly after the ceremony the wedding party was greatly surprised and terribly
                    startled by the arrival of the big band of savages. Some feared a massacre. But
                    the Indians were friendly.
            The bride and groom and others of the wedding party walked down to the river to
                    see the Indians. The chief was a young brave who only a few days previously had
                    been married himself to a pretty Indian maiden of his own tribe. But on seeing
                    the blushing young paleface bride, the chief was so pleased with her appearance
                    that he offered to swap wives. The bride was very indignant at. the
                    Indian's presumption. She was but fifteen years old and quite comely.
                    The audacity of the savage was further shown by the fact that he demanded a
                    blanket and a bear skin to boot.
            The next marriages which occurred in the Point Commerce settlement were the
                    following:
            Isaac Jackson and Elizabeth Griffith, by Rev. Hugh Barnes, August 9, 1821; David
                    Smith and Mary Byson, by Squire Edmond Jean, October 25, 1821; Philip Silver and
                    Sarah Lindley, by Squire John B. Kelshaw, January 10, 1822; John Fires and Patsy
                    Craig, by Squire Edmond Jean, May 19, 1822; Eli Duncan and Rebecca Stevenson, by
                    Squire William Clark, July, 1822; Peyton Owen and Rachel Griffith, Richard Wall
                    and Mary Dyer, Herbert Sanders and Jessie Jessup, Samuel Dyer and Celia Arney,
                    Aquilla Walker and Elizabeth Dyer, William Foley and Jane Osborn, Ira Danley and
                    Olive Jessup, Joseph Smith and Sallie Jessup, William Huey  and Sally Stanley, John Stanley and Mary Ball,
                    Abram Shoemaker and Maria Morris, Obediah Winters and Hanna Duncan, Thomas Huey
                    and Vasta Steward, Joshua Duncan and Maria Shoemaker, William Smith and Mary
                    McKee.
            Before any churches, or "meeting houses" were built, services
                    were held in the cabins, by the circuit riders who rode from place to place on
                    horseback. The services were always well attended and the pioneers were, as a
                    class, religious. The singing was congregational and the hymns were lined-off by
                    the preacher and then sung by the people, often with more force than melody.
                    These services gave the settlers an opportunity to meet and greet each other,
                    which they did in cordial manner. Good old fashioned
                    "handshakes" always followed the meetings in which the
                    exhorters often stirred their hearers into shouting. The religion of that day
                    was more demonstrative than that of the present.
            Spelling schools were another meeting place for the people, and proved both
                    beneficial and enjoyable.
            The first saw-mills were very primitive, slow and laborious. The log had to be
                    elevated. Then two men, with what is usually called a whip saw, cut it into
                    boards. One sawyer stood on the log and the other under it. The lower position
                    was disagreeable, on account of the sawdust falling into the sawyer's
                    eyes, when he looked up to see his work, which was, of course, necessary.
            For a time the nearest grist-mill was at 
                        Vincennes
                    , and the settlers had to go there to have their corn and wheat
                    ground. But later horse-mills and water-mills were built.
            Land was cheap in those days and could be bought for from fifty cents to
                    $2.50 per acre. What was known as "congress" land
                    was valued at $1.25 per acre. The swamp lands could not then have
                    been given away. By drainage it has become the most valuable now.
            Wages were low. Farm hands were paid $5.00 and $6.00 per
                    month. They worked hard and long.
            The first settlement, for many years, was the best and always remained a model of
                    thrift and enterprise. And when a town was later established there, it led all
                    others in its progress and its advancement, in commercial activity, in
                    education, in religion and in cleanliness. The place was often called
                    "White Town," a name in which the inhabitants were justly
                    complimented. The houses  and other buildings
                    and fences were kept neatly dressed in whitewash. To the voyagers, ascending or
                    descending the rivers, to the "movers," ever passing, the
                    little town of gleaming white on the hill, surrounded by the forest of green,
                    was like a beckoning invitation to a haven of rest and comfort.
            In this the village patterned after the town of 
                        Vincennes
                    , where the mud houses of the pioneer French settlers were kept in
                    spotless white, at all seasons, by a plentiful use of white-wash, made from
                    lime, formed by burning mussel shells. The French women were models of
                    cleanliness, neatness and industry, although so much can hardly be claimed for
                    their husbands, many of whom were prone to idleness and inebriacy, caring more
                    for fiddles and whisky than they did for wealth and education.
            But this was not true of the men in the "White Town" community.
                    They worked and developed the country; established ferries and bridges, mills
                    and stores, schools and churches, more rapidly than their French
                    "neighbors" had done at the "Old Post," on
                    the 
                        Wabash
                    .
            The first grist-mills established in the Old Point Commerce settlement were
                    operated by hand and were very primitive. Their product was a coarse
                    "unbolted" meal. Then horse-power mills were started.
                    Subsequently water mills were built. To secure power, dams were built across the
                    streams.
            It is claimed that Alexander Craig built and operated the first mill at Point
                    Commerce. Then Thomas Clark started a "tub"-mill on
                    Clark's creek.
            Later the Junction water mill was established by Daniel and Peter Ingersoll, at
                    the Rock Ford, on Eel river. It became an important
                    enterprise. People came there with their grists, for many miles
                    around–often remaining two or three days, waiting their turns,
                    fishing meanwhile in the mill-race.
            Above its junction with Eel river, the
                        "White river Mills" were established
                    and a dam built, on the latter stream, and operated by Green Tally, Amos Owen
                    and Ira Danley, successively, on the Haxton farm. A part of the old dam remains.
            Game was so plentiful that the pioneers procured their meat with their rifles.
                    Bears and deer were so often killed that their skins became a staple product of
                    the land. Fur-bearing animals were so numerous that trapping was a profitable
                    enterprise in the winter  season. There being
                    little money, skins and furs became a commodity of such regular barter that they
                    were almost a "legal tender."
            Owing to the ever-shifting habits of men who, even in that day, were moving
                    westward, the travel overland was wonderful. And, as all merchandise was hauled
                    overland, an almost constant stream of wagons were coming and going, when the
                    roads were passable. Four and six-horse teams were the rule. The ferries as a
                    result were busy all the day. Besides, the taverns along the "big
                    roads" or principal thoroughfares were located at intervals and did a
                    profitable business. Owing to the frequent attempts at extortions, the rates
                    were finally fixed by law.
            Near Point Commerce is located the famous "Devil's Tea
                    Table," an interesting geological formation, which has been called the
                    "Plymouth Rock of Point Commerce." It is nearly one hundred
                    feet high, and by its elevation and its location near White
                    river, it forms a natural "lookout" and was so used
                    by the Indians and by the pioneer whites. It is covered with the names of its
                    visitors, carved upon its surface. Some were carved there nearly a century ago.
            It is believed that this ancient landmark was used by the Mound Builders as a
                    sacrificial altar.
            Just below it, nearer the river, is the "Devil's
                    Chair," a stone formation resembling an immense seat with a back, which
                    has also attracted the attention of the sightseers.
            In those earlier days there was no mail service. Mail routes were not established
                    until about seventy-five years ago. There was a route from Point Commerce to 
                        Washington
                    , which brought and received mail weekly. The postage on a letter
                    was twenty-five cents, and was usually paid by the receiver. This was called
                    "lifting" a letter. No envelopes were used. The letters were
                    folded and sealed with wax.
            From the first the settlers in Old Eel River township showed
                    an interest in the cause of education and maintained the best schools of the
                    county.
            The first school in what was Old Eel River township was
                    organized in 1821. It was taught by George Baber in a little log house which
                    stood near the home of Caleb Jessup.
            The pioneer teachers, in the order named, were: Henry Sargent, Ephraim Owen, Luke
                    Philbert, William Bray, Joseph Saddle  and
                    Amos Roark. Each taught a subscription school for a short term in winter.
            Later a school house was built. It stood near the home of Mr. Jessup. Then
                    another school house was erected near the home of Mr. Sanders. In these,
                    successful schools were taught.
            Mr. Fletcher Griffith recalls the names of the following teachers in that
                    community: Rev. Simpson, Carlos Kelsey, Fred Spooner, William Leach, Robert
                    Taylor, Sam Kelshaw, John Curry, William Glover and John Buck.
            In 1830 there were five school houses in Jefferson and
                        Eel River townships. The schools grew in number and the
                    course of study was improved year by year.
            Finally the famous Point Commerce Academy was founded in 1869 by Prof. E. E.
                    Henry and Rev. John Laverty, both of whom were able educators. Students came
                    from the surrounding country and from distant towns. The higher branches were
                    taught. Its course of study was similar to the modern high school.
            For a few years Point Commerce Academy flourished. Then Prof. Henry accepted a
                    position elsewhere and the school finally closed. Mr. Laverty later was a clerk
                    in Dr. Squire's drug store in 
                        Worthington
                    . The history of Point Commerce would be incomplete without a sketch
                    of James M. H. Allison. He and his brother, John F. Allison, came from 
                        Spencer
                     to Point Commerce in the fall of 1836, and opened a store. They
                    bought land and laid off a town and named it Point Commerce.
            In the following summer J. M. H. Allison erected the famous old Junction House,
                    which stood on the corner on the east side of the street about where the little
                    frame school house is now situated. His brother-in-law, Dr. David Shepherd, was
                    the first landlord of the hotel. It was of frame, two stories and was a
                    substantial building. The lumber was sawed by Mr. Allison at 
                        Spencer
                     and floated down White river. The old hotel
                    was brought to Worthington in 1880, by Tip Osborn, who started a hotel here.
            A year later, in 1838, Mr. Allison brought his family to Point Commerce. They
                    first occupied a frame cottage, which stood just east of the hotel, then moved
                    into another home. Later, they lived in the hotel, until 1844, when Mr. Allison
                    erected the two-story brick residence overlooking the beautiful prospect where
                    the two rivers meet. The house still stands and is occupied by 
                        Jasper
                     Hutchinson.
            
            Jas. M. H. Allison was of British ancestry. He was born at 
                        Elizabethtown
                    , 
                        Maryland
                    , September 11, 1802. He was a large, portly man, weighing over 200
                    pounds, an ardent Whig, a faithful Methodist and a man of wonderful enterprise
                    and generosity.
            Mr. Allison was married twice. His first wife was Julia Ann Payne, who died
                    childless, eighteen months after their marriage. In 1828, Mr. Allison married
                    Julia Ann Applegate, daughter of a wealthy tobacco dealer of
                            
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               . To them were born
                    thirteen children, two of whom survive, viz.: Squire Geo. F. Allison of this
                    town and Dr. David E. Allison, dentist, of 
                  St. Paul, Minnesota
               . Mr. Allison died at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in 1877.
            The firm of Allison & Allison did an extensive business as general
                    merchants, pork-packers and dealers in produce, which they shipped down the
                    river to 
                        New Orleans
                    . Frequently they would have $40,000 worth of pork and
                    produce in their warehouse and pork house, waiting for the river to reach
                    boating stage. In addition of this the Allisons owned several hundred acres of
                    land. Their possessions included that part of what is now Worthington north of
                    Union street, and extending northward to Johnstown; also west of what is now
                    Worthington.
            James M. H. Allison, the principal owner of the business and real estate,
                    possessed large means and had great wealth at his command; but his generosity
                    helped bring on a financial crash, which occurred in 1852.
            His son, 'Squire George F. Allison, to whom we are indebted for much
                    of the data in this chapter, says:
            "My father was the principal contributor in building the first school
                    house and the first Methodist church at Point Commerce. Without his aid neither
                    would have been built. When any money was needed for church purposes, school
                    expenses, or for some public enterprise, J. M. H. Allison always headed the list
                    of subscribers and made up the balance, after the subscriptions of other
                    citizens had been received. Usually the largest portion of the whole amount was
                    left for father to pay. He paid the preachers and the teachers, the most of what
                    they received. Many times my father paid the taxes for his neighbors and then
                    waited until they brought him their produce. Some of them never paid him. He was
                    too generous for his own good. He donated to everything and assisted his friends
                    in the hour of need. Then, when he lay sick and all thought he was on his
                    death-bed, in the summer of 1852, some men whom he had befriended sent out false
                    and misleading reports about him, which damaged his credit and brought on his
                    financial ruin."
            
            "I remember when my father chartered the steamboat 'J. B.
                    Porter' at 
                        New Orleans
                    , and loaded it with goods for his store at Point Commerce.
            "In the spring of 1841 father loaded twenty-one flatboats with pork and
                    other produce and shipped them to 
                        New Orleans
                    . Two of the boats sank and their cargoes were lost, before reaching
                    their destination.".
            'Squire Allison recalls the names of the old flatboat pilots: Anderson
                    Harvey, James Harvey, KyGooden, Tom Archer, Joseph Osborn and William Kesterson.
            Much of the hauling was then done in wagons, from 
                        Vincennes
                     and from 
                        Louisville
                     to Point Commerce. Mr. Allison recalls the names of the old
                    wagoners, who used to drive four and six horse teams: Robert Fulton, Howard
                    Crantz, James Buckner, Adam Stroops, Jonathan Peyton, Jerry Buckner, Samuel
                    Chaney, George Rhinehard and Joseph Huey. Pie also remembers the names of some
                    of the men who used to clerk in his father's store: Robert Howe, John
                    Barekman, John Farmer, 'Squire Andrews and his uncle, John F.
                    Allison.
            The names of the preachers, which 'Squire Allison recalls, are as
                    follows: Revs. Eli P. Farmer, John Williams, Abediah Winters, James Lathrop,
                    William Mayson, W. F. Harned, ——— Raven-scoff,
                    ———Sabin and John Hancock.
            He remembers, likewise, when the street which passed in front of the hotel and
                    his father's store, ran down to the wharf at the rivers'
                    junction. Hundreds of heavily loaded wagons, drawn by four and six horse teams,
                    were pulled up that steep incline every season. When he was a boy Point Commerce
                    was a good business town. It was a busy place and there was bustle and action
                    everywhere. Pork houses, grist-mills, cotton gins, carding mills, sawmills,
                    tannery, distillery, ferries, shops, stores, "coffee house,"
                    and all other pioneer enterprises were active. All expected that Point Commerce
                    would one day become a great city. Its founder, J. M.-H. Allison, had proudly
                    spoken of it as the "Pittsburg of the West."
            'Squire Allison rememmbers the times when other crowds assembled
                    besides those who met for worship. He remembers when the voters came from the
                    surrounding country to vote on election days and on Muster day. The spring, or
                    local elections, were held in April, and the county elections in August.
            The use of liquor was more general in early days than it is now. The records show
                    that when public officials met to transact business  that whisky bills were put into their expense
                    accounts and allowed as necessities.
            But whisky, then as now, was a great curse and finally the better class of people
                    began to oppose its use and to stop drunkenness, which was alarmingly common.
                    Every public gathering was annoyed by whisky-crazed men and often the meeting
                    was broken up and ended in a drunken riot.
            Finally a lodge of Washingtonians, a strong pioneer temperance society, was
                    organized at Old Point Commerce. The members used to sing:  "The shouts of Washingtonians, Are heard on
                        every gale, They're chanting now their victory, O'er
                        whiskey, beer and ale." 
            
            Yet another member of that family, who was a man of influence at Point Commerce
                    and surrounding territory, was John F. Allison, a younger brother of J. M. H.
                    Allison.
            John F. Allison was born in 
                        Bourbon county
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , July 10, 1814. His father was a man of wealth and the owner of
                    many slaves, which he had inherited, but he did not believe that one man had a
                    right to own another. Consequently he liberated his slaves; yet as Mr. Allison
                    had been a humane master, some of his negroes declined their proffered freedom
                    and remained in the service of their former owner.
            John F. Allison was the youngest of three brothers. Both of the older brothers
                    were engaged in the mercantile business, Noah at 
                        Spencer
                     and James, with whom the subject of this sketch was associated, at
                    Point Commerce, where they had opened the first store on the 17th day of
                    November, 1835.
            Being a man of education and an experienced civil engineer, John F. Allison
                    surveyed and laid off the town of Point Commerce and took an active part in its
                    affairs. No other man had a wider acquaintance throughout this region than the
                    younger member of the firm of Allison & Allison, of Point Commerce. He
                    had the especial charge of the outdoor branch of their business, made frequent
                    trips to 
                        New Orleans
                     and occasionally journeyed to 
                        Louisville
                     and to Pittsburg, besides covering, on horseback, by stage and by
                    boat, the surrounding territory, which broadened his acquaintance until he was
                    the best-known and most popular man in this region during his day.
            
            Hon. John F. Allison was an ardent Whig. He served three terms in the State
                    Legisalture, two as Representative and one as Senator. He was first elected to
                    the House of Representatives from 
                        Greene county
                    , in 1839. Two years later he was offered the nomination to a seat
                    in the State Senate, but declined and was soon afterward renominated and elected
                    to a second term as Representative.
            In 1844, Mr. Allison was elected Senator from the district composed of 
                        Greene
                     and Owen counties.
            John F. Allison was an orator and recognized as the best political speaker in
                    this section of the State. In 1840 he stumped the State for William Henry
                    Harrison and participated in the great political debates of his day, and was the
                    relentless foe of slavery. His oratorical ability and his strenuous activity
                    made Mr. Allison a leader in both House and Senate. He fought, with
                    characteristic vigor, for the repeal of the law which allowed the imprisonment
                    of men for debt. While in the State Senate he was one of the leading advocates
                    of the great compromise measure, known as the Butler Bill, which became a law
                    and saved the State from bankruptcy.
            But John F. Allison did not confine himself to political and commercial affairs
                    alone. He was a leader in every public enterprise and made tremendous sacrifices
                    of time and money, for the good of the community, and for internal improvements.
                    He advocated the first railroad project, the great "Air Line,"
                    to which he gave twelve hundred acres of land, then valued at $8,000.
                    It would now be worth $80,000.
            Mr. Allison was also active in the first effort to build a railroad from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    . He served one year, without pay, as secretary of the board of
                    directors, besides making a cash donation of $1,000. Later he
                    assisted in promoting the I. & V. railroad, which was built in 1869 and
                    donated $1,000 to the enterprise.
            Johnstown, which was a place of considerable business in the old canal days, was
                    named after John F. Allison. He opened the first store there. Mr. Allison died
                    in 1885, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            'Squire George F. Allison recalls the names of the teachers who taught
                    at Point Commerce, in the little old brick school house, which stood north of
                    the big brick church. They were: James Freeman, Miss Rowel, Thomas Rowark, Henry
                    Grim, Mary Taylor, Ann Ritter, Hiram Hanshot and William Leach.
            
            Before the church was erected religious services were held in the school house.
                    Previous to the building of the school house they used to hold services in the
                    hotel, the famous old Junction House, owned by Allison & Allison. The
                    dining room was used for the meetings and when the crowd was large, the door
                    leading to the barroom was opened. Rev. Farmer, an uncle of J. M. H. Allison,
                    often preached there.
            The old brick church at Point Commerce was called Wesley Chapel. It was erected
                    in 1849. It was 40x80 feet in size and was two stories high. It stood almost
                    directly opposite the one-story brick residence which still stands and is
                    occupied by Clarence Cressy. This cottage was built by Dr. Shepherd, a
                    brother-in-law of J. M. H. Allison, as a residence. It was occupied later by
                    'Squire William S. Bays, who had married the doctor's
                    widow after his death.
            The brick for the old church at Point Commerce were burned across the road from
                    where the residence of B. F. Hays now stands.
            George F. Allison remembers when the first church society was organized at Point
                    Commerce, in the little old brick school house, with the following members:
                    George Helm, Jesse Brazier, James Denton, John Yarnell, Robert Stricklin, George
                    Griffith, Thomas Messick and Cavin Spooner. Mr. Helm and Mr. Griffith were
                    class-leaders.
            The first quarterly meeting at Point Commerce was in 1840. It was conducted by
                    Rev. McGinnis, Presiding Elder. A big revival followed.
            Camp meetings had been held in the old Point Commerce community even before the
                    town was started, and were always well attended.
            The first preacher was Rev. Hugh Barnes, an old Revolutionary soldier. Other old
                    pioneer preachers of that settlement were Rev. James Armstrong, Rev. Obediah
                    Winters and Rev. Eli P. Farmer.
            Old Wesley Chapel, at Point Commerce, was a stately and substantial edifice and
                    was the best known church in 
                        Greene county
                     for many years. Some great revivals were held there and the leading
                    ministers of those early days, who visited this region, preached in the old
                    church. The people for miles around met and worshipped there for a half century.
            The old church outlasted the pioneer town which it had blessed  by its divine and powerful influence, by many
                    years. Long after Worthington had grown up into a good town and Point Commerce
                    had fallen into decay, the ancient church on the hill was still the meeting
                    place for the Methodists of this locality. Commercially Point Commerce came to
                    Worthington, but spiritually the conditions were reversed.
            Finally a Methodist church was built in 
                        Worthington
                    , and gradually the old pioneer church at Point Commerce was
                    abandoned. Its parishioners had died or moved away; the ministers who had
                    preached there in years agone had been called away, some to other fields of
                    labor and others to their eternal rest. And, with all its hallowed memories, the
                    dear old "meeting house" on the hill top stood silent and
                    deserted until the ancient edifice was razed in 1882, by Marcus Hays, Sr.
                    (father of Ben F., Sam F. and Marcus Hays) who bought the building, tore it down
                    and built a residence with the brick. This house, a substantial two-story
                    building, was erected in 1883, and is now the residence of Marcus Hays, son of
                    the builder. In the front gable of the old church, over the door, was a heavy
                    slab of stone, in which was chiseled these words: "Wesley Chapel M. E.
                    Church, 1849." This fixes the date of its erection. The old stone now
                    forms a top for Mark Hays' cistern.
            The pulpit and pews in old Wesley Chapel were of the finest black walnut. They
                    are now doing service in 
                        Mount Vernon
                     Methodist church, three miles northwest of old Point Commerce, and
                    are still in splendid condition.
            Mrs. Josephine Andrews, mother of William C. Andrews, the well known hardware
                    dealer, who went to school at Point Commerce and was well acquainted there,
                    remembers many interesting events and personages of that place. She recalls the
                    name of the first Methodist minister who preached at old Wesley Chapel. He was
                    Reverend Gunsaulus.
            SCOURGED
                    BY CHOLERA
            
            In 1851 the entire country was scourged with an epidemic of cholera, and the four
                    doctors fell victims of the disease within three days of each other, leaving
                    Point Commerce without a physician. This is the way some old residents remember
                    the event. Others say that only two of the doctors died; another says three of
                    the doctors  died of cholera. However,
                    one-fourth of the people died and others fled from the dreaded pestilence.
            Not only did the ancient village on the hill at the rivers' junction
                    suffer, but other towns and cities, all over the land were visited by the awful
                    scourge. In many a city there were scarcely enough well people to bury the dead.
                    The scourge became so fatal and so prevalent that in some large cities, the dead
                    bodies of its victims were carted to their graves and buried without coffins.
                    Burying squads went from house to house, with wagons. Pausing at the door of the
                    house of mourning the men shouted: "Bring on your
                    dead!" and corpse after corpse was loaded into waiting
                    wagons, to be hauled away to the "silent city of the dead" and
                    interred without the usual funeral formalities.
            The feeble words of men fail to express the fullness of sorrow when every heart
                    is burdened with grief and every home is a house of mourning.
            In its nation-wide devastation the scourge stalked with sorrow-leaving strides,
                    from sea to sea in a season, and no protecting angel had "passed
                    over" in advance, for nowhere had the saving spray of hyssop struck the
                    lintel of any door in the land; nor was the monster satisfied with the
                    first-born, but demanded a deadlier toll, and, pitied not its prey. Neither
                    tears, nor prayers, nor doctors, could stay its ravages.
            A BARREL
                    OF MONEY
            
            One of the leading citizens of Point Commerce was William C. Andrews, who
                    conducted a dry goods store there and was postmaster for many years. The
                    postoffice was kept in his store. In those days the postage on a letter was
                    two-bits. Often Postmaster Andrews was asked by the receiver for a loan of
                    twenty-five cents, in order that the interesting missive might be taken home to
                    the family. Some of these loans were never paid; yet, to the good name of those
                    sturdy pioneers, let it be said that Mr. Andrews lost but a few times through
                    accommodating his neighbors in this way.
            Mr. Andrews was also associated with C. J. Barekman in the pork and grain
                    business. They bought such produce from the farmers, built flatboats and shipped
                    it to 
                        New Orleans
                    . Mr. Andrews made frequent trips to that city, then the commercial
                    emporium for this and all the intervening territory.
            In those days flatboating was an important industry. Boats  were built at Point Commerce, loaded and sent to 
                        New Orleans
                    . Often twenty-five flatboat loads of pork, grain and other products
                    were shipped to the great southern metropolis in a single season.
            Mrs. Josephine Andrews tells us of an interesting event. Mr. Andrews went to 
                        New Orleans
                     with an unusually heavy cargo of pork and grain, which he sold and
                    received his pay, several thousand dollars in silver and gold. He put his money
                    into a barrel and, accompanied by a trusted assistant, shipped it by boat to
                            
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , with as little
                    display as possible, not caring to make known the contents of the barrel. But
                    one of them always stood guard, and both slept by the precious collection of
                    coin. On reaching 
                        Louisville
                    , the barrel of money was rolled into a wagon and hauled overland to
                    Point Commerce.
            In later years Messrs. Andrews and Barekman located at 
                        Worthington
                    , which fact will be given in a subsequent chapter.
            Though Allison & Allison, merchants, pork-packers and shippers,
                    hotelkeepers and speculators, were the pioneers, other large stores and rival
                    merchants were soon located and all did a good business.
            Hogs and cattle were raised in great number then. They ran at large and it cost
                    little to feed them or to care for them. The cattle fattened on the range and
                    hogs upon the mast. Just before slaughtering them they were taken up and fed a
                    few weeks to make them "corn fed" by which their market value
                    was enhanced.
            Mr. W. G. Sanders' father, who had done a large business in raising
                    hogs, packed his own pork in later years and shipped it to market.
            Subsequently the hogs were driven to market on foot in big droves. Mr. W. G.
                    Sanders remembers when he went with his father who drove 600 to 700 fat hogs to 
                        Terre Haute
                    . They were eight days on the way. The drovers were accompanied by
                    teams, ready to haul any fat swine which gave out on the way. When a wagon got a
                    load it went on ahead to 
                        Terre Haute
                    , left its hogs and then returned to meet the drove.
            Cattle were driven to 
                        Cincinnati
                     or other markets in those early days.
            Drovers were usually men of considerable means and on returning from the cities
                    (where their cattle had been sold), with their money in saddle bags, they were
                    often waylaid and robbed by highwaymen  on
                    the lonely roads in the forests. Sometimes they put up for the night at some
                    wayside inn whose landlord was the head of a band of robbers and murderers. The
                    returning drover who fell into such hands never reached home and was never heard
                    from again. No Point Commerce drover ever met such a fate.
            However, in those days, before there were any daily or even weekly market
                    reports, many an unfortunate drover lost heavily and was driven into bankruptcy
                    by an unfortunate deal in swine, or through the dishonesty of some swindling
                    speculator in the large cities. Occasionally a local speculator lost heavily
                    upon hogs which he bought here and drove to some large city.
            Jack Newsom, who owned the land known as the "Peters'
                    Farm," now the property of Z. P. East, was among the pioneer
                    speculators who lost all he possessed through the dishonesty of 
                        Louisville
                     packers to whom he sold hogs. Mr. Newsom had raised some of the
                    hogs, but the rest he bought from his neighbors. He paid them but received
                    nothing from the dishonest men to whom he sold. They told him that the
                    "market was down" and that they had suffered heavy losses. If
                    they bought from others on the same terms they did from Jack Newsom it is
                    difficult to see how they suffered any loss. It cost Jack Newsom 1,300 acres of
                    good land, now worth $125 per acre.
            The drovers forded the rivers and creeks enroute. The older residents of Point
                    Commerce remember when big droves of cattle forded, or swam, White
                        river on their long and tiresome journey to
                            
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
               , or to
                            
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               .
            Everything was cheap in those days. David S. Fulk remembers when his father,
                    Charles Fulk, raised corn, shelled it by hand and sold it for 16 cents,
                    delivered. Pork sold for 2l/2 cents net. Mr. Fulk's father sold a cow
                    for $8 and a good heifer for $3. With the money he bought
                    a steel plow and a pair of leather check lines. Land was worth $1.25
                    per acre. A man who wanted to "enter" land rode to 
                        Vincennes
                    , paid $1.25 per acre and got a deed.
            John Stanley, a pioneer citizen of the Point Commerce community, used to raise
                    corn and hogs and ship his products to 
                        New Orleans
                     by flatboat. He built his own boat, loaded it with his own corn and
                    pork and acted as his own pilot and business manager.
            He cooked and lived on the boat as he floated down stream to the great southern
                    mart. On reaching 
                        New Orleans
                     he would sell  the cargo,
                    retaining his cooking utensils, ropes, block and tackle, which he brought back
                    for the next trip.
            Once he sold a load of produce for $1,500 and received his money in
                    silver. This he put into a barrel, piled the ropes, pans and skillets in on top
                    of it and shipped it by boat to 
                        Louisville
                    . There the barrel, with its valuable contents, was stored in a
                    ware-room and left. There the barrel stood, with no one to guard it; no one knew
                    what the barrel contained.
            Mr. Stanley walked to Point Commerce, took his four-horse team and drove to 
                        Louisville
                    , loaded his barrel into the wagon with a quantity of merchandise he
                    had bought and returned. On reaching home Mr. Stanley unloaded his barrel,
                    dumped its contents upon the barn floor, and lo! his bags of money
                    were there, safe and untouched. He hid his money in some
                    "gums" of seed wheat, where it lay for several months, until
                    Mr. Stanley invested it in land. There were no banks near and as no one but the
                    owner knew that the money was there it was safe.
         
         
         
            Communication
            AN ECHO FROM THE ERA OF THE TASSEMENTS.
            A contribution to the December number of the Indiana Magazine of History,
                    entitled "The Meaning of Tassinong," invites the undersigned
                    to present his authority for applying the old French word tassement to the simple log structures of old French trading posts, or
                    palisaded shops, where furs were obtained from the Indians in exchange for
                    various articles of trade. I take pleasure in responding to the invitation
                    contained in that article, especially since I have been indebted to its author,
                    in past years, for kindly and valuable aid on more than one difficult point in
                    Indiana's ancient history. I waive the fact that the invitation is
                    presented in a manner to which I am little accustomed, and I attribute the
                    author's playfulness in part to the freedom of an old-time
                    acquaintance.
            For critical purposes relating to French historical and literary matters of old
                    time, I find the work of Celestin Hippeau (1803-1883) indispensable; for it
                    seeks to do what has not been done by any other lexicographer of the language,
                    so far as I know. It seeks to give the status, in centuries gone, of old French
                    words, and to condense in two volumes of convenient size the substance of great
                    works which are rare, expensive, and inconvenient; to give what the student
                    would otherwise have to search for in the Dictionaries of Roquefort, De Burguy,
                    and Du Cagne, and in various partial lexicons.
            The first volume of Hippeau's work was issued in 1866; the second, in
                    1873. The work was published in 
                        Paris
                     by Auguste Aubry, of 18 Rue Seguier, who issued also seventeen
                    other volumes of historical, literary and educational criticism (all remarkable)
                    by Hippeau, together with seven valuable literary compends by him.
            In the second volume of Hippeau's Dictionnaire on
                    page 132, is found the word tassement, it being in the class
                    of words which had come into use before the close of the thirteenth century. It
                    is, therefore, at least, over six hundred years old, and it is still in use,  with no change in the spelling or in the
                    pronunciation, and still relates in a way to buildings (with a technical meaning
                    known especially to architects), though the old palisades have passed away.
            To this word our historical lexicographer gives but a single meaning. He defines
                    it palissade.
            Hippeau connects the word with tas, tasse, or tassel, meaning, as he says, rassemblement, assemblage de
                        plusieurs objets; also (a peculiar usage, I think) touffe
                        d'arbres. Tassement has been associated by others with tas, tasque, and tasche, meaning a pocket or
                    a sack or purse carried at the belt. The pocket or swung purse of the workman or
                    housewife, in centuries gone, contained many articles not now carried around in
                    clothing. Hence tassement, it would seem, came to convey the
                    idea of an assortment of serviceable things, such as were to be found in a
                    trader's establishment. But the idea of a palisade was the first and
                    dominant one expressed by the word, and our lexicographer gives no other meaning
                    than this.
            When the Count de St. Chamas (a native of 
                        Paris
                    , long resident at the court of Cairo, with whom I sustained an
                    intimate acquaintance for a decade in 
                        Chicago
                    ) was about to start, seven years ago, upon his journey around the
                    world, he came to me and gave me, as a parting present (the last of many
                    generous gifts), the great Grammaire des Grammaires and the
                    two volumes of Hippeau's Dictionnaire. Of the
                    latter he said, "I give these to you, mon ami,
                    because I know that you will appreciate them and use them." He had
                    often seen me ransacking Larousse and La Grande Encyclopedie.
            Where were the tassements of the French in the third century back? The greatest
                    line of tassements in history (with which Hippeau was so familiar) was the line
                    built from Quebec to 
                        New Orleans
                    .
            The scanty records remaining tell of the more prominent of these; but there must
                    have been, in the colonial period, many a modest tassement of
                    French traders all unknown to fame, and hundreds of crudely-drawn maps or
                    tracings of routes that were never engraved for books or even copied in enduring
                    manuscripts. The heroic colonial age of the west was largely characterized by
                    individual daring, enterprise, endurance and achievement, unrecorded,  and lost even to family legend and popular
                    tradition by the changes of sovereignty and of population.
            What remains, even of vague, dim legend, should be treasured, especially where it
                    is fortified very strongly by the evidence which a perpetuated name supplies.
            The writer of the December contribution mentioned above seeks to derive the name
                    "Tassinong" from an Indian word meaning plum, and presents the
                    matter ingeniously. Such a derivation would involve the substitution of the
                    sound of "n" for that of "m" (which I do not
                    regard as a serious matter); but it presents other phonetic difficulties, which
                    to me seem to be of a serious nature.
            That writer's opinion is entitled to respectful consideration; but it
                    seems to ignore the following facts, to say nothing of the inherent probability
                    that some modest tassement of an early French trader, unknown
                    to fame, existed in the neighborhood of Tassinong in the old French days (a
                    probability that does not appeal to the contributor) :
            
               The fact that the tradition of the place, often told by the early
                        settlers, and by them received from the Indians, was that a very old French
                        trading establishment had existed there, of which not a splinter remained.
               The fact that a word such as the French spelled tassement, varied perhaps in a single small particular (by the
                        exchanging of an "m" sound for an "n"
                        sound), was orally handed down through generations of Indians (who were in
                        no way chargeable with the spelling, since they did not write the word, but
                        only spoke it).
               The fact that the earliest settlers, having acquired the very old name
                        orally, from the Indians, gave its final syllable the French nasal sound
                        (pronouncing "nong" as a very nasal
                        "naw," and thrusting out their lips in the effort), to the
                        later amusement of their children and grandchildren.
               The fact that "Grove" was not a part of the Indian name,
                        and was probably used only informally and by only a very few persons. I
                        never heard of it before in this connection.
               The fact that the minor tassements of the French did not
                        always have names. Even 
                            Vincennes
                         was long known simply as the "Poste," having
                        no other name.
               The fact that the more modest palisades would not likely be spoken of as
                            postes (which would denote an official character),  but would more naturally be called by
                        another and more generic name. Probably the legendary trading house at 
                            Tassinong
                         was wholly a private affair, and never had any official
                        designation (or character, other than the license of the trader would
                        presuppose if he had one). 
                            Duluth
                        , I learn, had neither a license nor a name for his tassement in 
                            Minnesota
                        .
            
            Since the Indians who transmitted the old name orally were not responsible for
                    the spelling of "Tassinong" (which bears the earmarks of some
                    one who understood the old conventional English rendering of the French syllable
                    "ment"), that counts for little.
            The principles of French syllabication are so well established that I should not
                    think of arguing them. When any one tells me that French words like tassement, nullement, tellement, etc., etc., have but two syllables, I
                    respectfully refer him to a competent professor of French.
            In dealing with a light French syllable, Americans either fortify it or else
                    ignore it. It may be remarked that "Tassinong" (unlike
                    Prattville, which must be pronounced in two syllables, or Calumet, which must be
                    pronounced in three) happens to contain a resonant liquid, the sound of
                    "n"; and while I have been familiar with the name from
                    babyhood, I could scarcely tell now, in hundreds of cases, whether the speaker
                    using it is making one or two syllables of it. Happily, the oral pronunciation
                    handed down presents no problem of syllables, at all.
            In my preceding paper I did not urge the antecedent and inherent probability that
                    the hunters' and trappers' paradise in my native county of
                    Porter, north of the Kankakee, on the route taken by the first recorded
                    incursion of the French into Indiana (La Salle's, 1679) should
                    contain, within the French period, at least a modest and unnamed tassement. Yet
                    this did appeal very strongly to a gentleman well acquainted with Smithsonian
                    work in archaeology, and well posted in our colonial history, who took me to
                    task somewhat severely, several years ago, for not making an effort to locate
                    such a trading establishment. So strongly was he impressed with the inherent
                    probability of its one-time existence (though he knew nothing at all of
                    Tassinong), that he was concerned only as to its location. I looked, in Hippeau,
                    for tassement, as an original form for the conventionalized
                    "Tassinong," and found it with the mutation of a single
                    letter, in tassement.
            
            My purpose has not been to attempt anything sensational, but, as a conscientious
                    duty, to contribute what I might of historical criticism relating to the region
                    north of the Kankakee, so much neglected by writers of Indiana history. I
                    presumed that the distinguished writer of the December contribution was
                    acquainted with Hippeau and perhaps also with the Dictionaries
                    of De Burguy, Roquefort, and Du Cange, which Hippeau so cleverly epitomized for
                    our convenience.
            While I perhaps had no right to assume this of so busy a gentelman, and may have
                    overestimated his acquaintance with authorities on old French, it would be
                    difficult for any one to overestimate his painstaking diligence in arresting the
                    influence of impudent or careless historical impositions, and in sifting the
                    great mass of materials, often very perplexing, which he has handled. Perhaps it
                    is not to be wondered at that his feelings cause him, at times, to make use of
                    exclamation points, and to demand facts and authorities in a somewhat
                    undiplomatic way.
            I am delighted to learn from him that the name "Tassinong"
                    still appears on recent maps of Porter county. I hope it will long remain.
                    Unless it shall be discovered elsewhere in current cartography, I shall be glad
                    to feel that Porter county possesses, in a conventionalized form, the last
                    remaining cartographic use of a name so full of heroic and romantic
                    suggestiveness as attaches to the word tassement in old and
                    historic French.
            HUBERT M. SKINNER.
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notes
            
               George Washington: Farmer, Being An Account of His Home Life and
                        Agricultural Activities. By PAUL LELAND HA-WORTH. The
                    Bobbs-Merrill Company, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , pp. 336.
            THE first question to suggest itself on reading the above
                    title was What can a serious historian do with such a subject? Fortunately a
                    reading of the book settles the question. The author has done at least four
                    things and avoided doing one which has brought considerable notoriety to less
                    sensible authors. The author has held strictly to the fundamental principles of
                    good history writing. The whole account is based on a first hand study of 
                        Washington
                    's own papers; he has produced a valuable commentary on
                    the labor question, the problems of farming, the problem of good living, the
                    social customs, and commercial conditions of that period; he has given us a new
                    angle on the life of 
                        Washington
                    ; he has produced a very readable book; and finally he has not given
                    us one of the modern "real" biographies by dipping into every
                    trace of scandal handed down by the gossips of the times.
            The account is concrete and descriptive. There are no opinions advanced, no
                    theories set forth and argued at length. There is an atmosphere of reality
                    preserved throughout. The author naturally has a snappy style, and the numerous
                    expressions picked up from 
                        Washington
                    's own pen help to keep one on the 
                        Mt. Vernon
                     premises at all times. Some of the chapters are "Building
                    an Estate", "
                        Virginia
                     Agriculture in 
                        Washington
                    's Day", "Conserving the
                    Soil", "The Stockman", "White Servants and
                    Overseers", "Black Slaves", "A
                    Farmer's Amusements", "Profit and Loss".
                    The reader cannot escape believing that the author enjoyed browsing among the
                    voluminous papers of General Washington. There is no evidence anywhere of that
                    musty, dutsy, grind by which some writers make a living browsing through
                    repulsive material hoping here and there to find a pay lead. Being a robust,
                    red-blooded Hoosier farmer himself, he certainly enjoyed the long visits with
                    "Our Farmer" as he rode from farm to farm, or chased the
                    foxes, or cursed lazy negroes, or tried to raise bumper crops on worn out  land, or whiled away the wintry hours
                    studying "Hoil." The fortunate thing about the whole affair is
                    that he can take any reader who has any appreciation for farm life with him on
                    these trips, so that he gets an idea of the great general not easily obtained
                    elsewhere. The finest thing in the whole book is the testimony the author bears
                    to the character of 
                        Washington
                    . It seems that every new discovery, as he studied the Farmer day by
                    day, increased his regard.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Michigan
                         Historical Collections, Vol. XXXIX. MICHIGAN HISTORICAL COMMISSION,
                    Lansing, Mich., 1915. p. 601.
            This volume contains besides the usual reports and a Subject and Author Index for
                    the whole series, the following papers: Patrick. Sinclair, Western Sketches of
                    Caroline Kirkland, Dr. Douglass Houghton, Prehistoric Copper Mines of Lake
                    Superior, Prominent Newspaper Men in 
                        Michigan
                    , James McMillan, Will Carleton, Thomas W. Palmer, Two Early
                    Missionaries, Saginaw County, Study of 
                        Michigan
                     History, Memoirs of Pioneer Settlers, Biographical Sketches (14 in
                    number). The volume contains several articles of great value to Indiana readers.
                    The 
                        Michigan
                     Historical Commission under the lead of Governor Ferris is doing a
                    great deal of work. Dr. Charles Moore is editor for the Commission.
         
         
            
               The Illinois Whigs Before 1846. By CHARLES MANFORD THOMPSON, Ph. D.,
                    Associate in Economics, University of 
                  Illinois, Urbana
               , 1915. pp. 165.
            THIS is a preliminary study to a history of the Whigs of 
                        Illinois
                    . The five chapter heads: Genesis of the Illinois Whigs; The
                    Emergence of the Whig party, 1834-1839; Harrison and Tyler, 1839-1841; Sectional
                    and State Issues, 1841-1845; and The Illinois Whigs and National Politics,
                    1841-1845, show fairly accurately the field the author has examined. From
                    another point of view the study seems to fall into three sections; the period of
                    personal politics, the period of State politics, and the period when national
                    issues dominated the field. Each of these periods developed its characteristic
                    men. Governor Edwards built tip a strong personal following, the men of the
                    second period built up sectional follow-ings, depending for their cohesion on
                    local interest. This was the period of bank and internal improvement
                    legislation. In the third  period men of
                    national significance were developed. Dr. Thompson has not developed this idea
                    extensively but has gone perhaps as far as the facts would warrant. He has
                    wisely refrained from the sweeping generalization which historians are
                    constantly tempted to make.
            The study is most significant for Indiana. Our party history is almost a
                    counterpart of that of 
                        Illinois
                    . Indiana had its Jennings as 
                        Illinois
                     had its Edwards; Indiana had its experience in Internal
                    Improvements backed up largely by the Whig party, but really a non-partisan
                    movement; the Indiana Supreme Court was attacked by politicians at the same time
                    as that of 
                        Illinois
                    . The author's description of the Harrison Campaign if a
                    few names were changed would do for the campaign in Indiana. The charge of
                    scandal against 
                        Clay
                     and Adams was made in one state the same as the other. Indiana had
                    the same conflict between the northern and southern parts of the state, though
                    not so acute as in 
                        Illinois
                    . The opposition to Jackson and Van Buren crystallized into the Whig
                    party in Indiana about the same time and in about the same way as in 
                        Illinois
                    . The Jacksonian party in 1824 found its strongest weapon in
                    denouncing officeholders. The Whig party was evidently much stronger in Indiana
                    as early as 1832 and certainly in 1836 conducted a well organized campaign
                    carrying the State.
            The study is a good one, well written, based on what seems sufficient data. The
                    wide use of the newspapers of the period is especially to be commended. above
                    all it is encouraging to see such men as Dr. Thompson devoting their time to the
                    history of the middle period of the West. It is certainly one of the most
                    profitable fields in our history for investigation.
         
         
            THE December Records of the American Catholic
                        Historical Society of 
                        Philadelphia
                     has the first section of the journal of Reverend Father Marie
                    Joseph Durand. It was translated from the French and edited by Ella M. E. Flick.
                    In 1803 a group of French Trappists, refugees, came to America to establish a
                    foundation. In 1805 Father Joseph joined them. They decided
                    not to locate in America and returned to 
                        France
                     at the time of the Restoration. Father Joseph lingered in the West
                    till 1820, when he too returned. The journal published in the Records is his official report made on his return to 
                        France
                    .
            
            IN the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Medical Journal for January, the editor, Dr. A. W.
                    Brayton, very kindly calls attention to the work of the Indiana Historical
                    Society and the Indiana Magazine of History. No men in the state have better
                    opportunities for learning of valuable historical materials than the physicians.
                    The Historical Society belongs to no class or profession and would gladly avail
                    itself of any and all possible assistance.
            THE Attica Daily Tribune of January 26,
                    1916, contains some local traditions concerning Scott's attack upon
                    the Indians of the Wea Towns in 1791. These traditions are to the effect that a
                    battle was fought on the hills opposite Attica at the same time Scott destroyed
                    the Wea Towns. It is suggested that this may refer to the battle between Colonel
                    John Hardin and the Indians. In his official report General Scott says he
                    detached Colonel Hardin with sixty men to attack some villages to his
                    left–that is, down the river. Hardin executed the order but after
                    Scott had driven the Indians from the Wea Towns he received word from Hardin
                    that he had found more Indians than he expected and was hard pressed. Scott was
                    five miles west of 
                        Lafayette
                    .
            THE
                    
                  
                            Plainfield
                         Messenger of January 27, 1916, contains the first of a
                    series of papers by Mrs. Clara Vickrey on the development of transportation in
                    Indiana from pioneer times down to the present.
            THE
                    Register of the 
                            Kentucky
                         State Historical Society for January has a brief biography
                    of Col. J. Stoddard Johnston of 
                        Kentucky
                    . He was a leading editor and politician after the war. He was the
                    son of Senator Josiah Stoddard Johnston of 
                        Louisiana
                     and the nephew of Albert Sidney Johnston. The Johnstons were a 
                        Connecticut
                     family yet most of them fought on the Confederate side during the
                    Rebellion. Col. J. S. Johnston was adjutant on the staff of General
                    Breckenridge. The biography is by George Baber. The Register
                    also contains a copy of the "
                        Boone
                     Records" from the manuscripts of the Society of Friends of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ; and a very entertaining account of the visit of Burr and
                    Blennerhasset to "Chaumiere," the country seat of Col. David
                    Meade.
            "THE Story of the Burnett Family" is told by
                    J. Wesley Whicker in the Attica Ledger of January 28. The
                    Burnetts were French  half-breeds who took
                    sides with the Indians in their struggles with the white people. They were
                    allied by marriage with the Kicka-poos. It is said that they planned an
                    ambuscade for Harrison's army in 1811, as it should cross Pine Creek,
                    but that they were circumvented by Zachariah Cicot, the half-breed guide of
                    Harrison, who led the army back from the 
                        Wabash
                     ten miles to make the crossing. Tradition has it that Abraham
                    Burnett commanded the Kickapoos at the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , and that his father and oldest brother were killed in 1791 in
                    Scott's attack on the Kickapoos.
            The Story of Zachariah Cicot, the French half-breed scout who guided Harrison to 
                        Tippecanoe
                     in 1811, is told by Mr. Whicker in the Attica Ledger of January 21, 1816. Cicot seems to have been the first settler in 
                        Warren county
                    .
            THE
                    
                        Princeton
                    
                    Clarion-News of Dec. 25, 1915, contains reminiscences by Col.
                    G. R. Stormont. The story of the Nachez storm and that concerning the ravages of
                    the smallpox are interesting reading.
            AN article by Herman Rave of 
                        New Albany
                     in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News of January 22, deals with the work of Christian Post and
                    other Moravian Missionaries among the western Indians before the Revolution.
            REV. EDGAR F. DAUGHERTY,
                    pastor of the First Christian Church of 
                        Vincennes
                    , delivered a series of addresses on the Early History of 
                        Vincennes
                    . The first of these appeared in the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Commercial, December 10.
            THE
                    
                        Vevay
                    
                    Reveille of December 9 does the Indiana Magazine of History
                    the honor of republishing entire Miss Knox's History of 
                        Vevay
                     which appeared in the September number. The editor forgot to give
                    the magazine credit, however. Credit ought to be given inasmuch as all matter in
                    the magazine is copyrighted.
            THE January History Teacher's
                    Magazine has an article by Professor S. B. Harding on "The Nature
                    and Method of History."
         
      
      
         
      
   
