
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 33, Issue 4, pages 385-526. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:33+issue:4+year:1937&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Lincoln Migration from 
                        Kentucky
                     to Indiana
            R. GERALD MCMURTRY
            
            The migration of the Lincoln family from 
                        Kentucky
                     to Indiana in the fall of 1816 is an important event in the study and chronology of the
                    life of Abraham Lincoln.1 This removal to Indiana was the fifth migration of the
                    direct line of Lincoln's family in America, dating back three hundred years from 1937 to
                    the arrival in this country on June 20. 1637, of Samuel Lincoln, the first American ancestor of the
                        President.2 The numerous Lincoln caravans, that moved westward through
                    several different states, represent a typical American migration, as such movements were not unusual
                    to pioneer life.3
            
            In Referring to the 1816 Lincoln migration, which included Thomas Lincoln and wife, Nancy Hanks
                    Lincoln, and their children, Sarah and Abraham, historians usually first quote an excerpt from
                    President Lincoln's autobiographical sketch that he prepared for John Locke Scripps, an
                    early Lincoln biographer.4 Lincoln's own words regarding the migration
                    are as follows: 
                        From this place [Knob Creek Farm] he [Thomas Lincoln] removed to what is now 
                                Spencer County
                            , Indiana, in the Autumn of 1816, Abraham then being in his eighth year.5 This removal was partly 
                        
                           1 The migration to Indiana of the Lincoln family has been
                                    listed as one of the hundred outstanding events in 
                                        Lincoln
                                    's life. Lincoln Love, No. 326, July 8, 1935.
                                        Lincoln Lore is published by the Lincoln National Life
                                    Foundation of 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                    , Indiana, and edited by Dr. Louis A. Warren.
                        
                           2
                                    Lincoln Lore, No. 404, January 4, 1937.
                        
                           3 "The story of the westward movement of the family
                                    through several different states, represents a typical American migration."
                                    Dr. Louis A. Warren to the writer, January 5, 1937.
                        
                           4 Mr. Lincoln was nominated for President by the Republican
                                    national convention at 
                                        Chicago
                                     on May 18, 1860. A Campaign "Life" was needed;
                                    Scripps was selected to write it. He immediately went to 
                                        Springfield
                                     and secured from Lincoln, the short autobiography which covers about
                                    six pager, of the Nicolay and Hay Complete Works. Foreword by M.
                                    L. Houser in the reprinced John Locke Scripps Life, of Abraham
                                    Limcoln (
                              Peoria, Illinois
                           , 1931), 5.
                        
                           5 If the migration to Indiana was in November, 1816, Abraham
                                    Linoln's age was approximately seven years and nine months Thomas Lincoln
                                    was forty years old and Naney Hanks Lincoln is believed to have been about
                                    thirty-two or thirty-three years old in that year.
                     
                             on account of slavery, but chiefly on account of the
                            difficulty in land titles.
                    
            
            Historians have been prone to dismiss, as mere political propaganda, the slavery issue mentioned by
                    Mr. Lincoln as a reason for the removal to Indiana.6 Such conclusions are not
                    correct. The Severn's Valley Creek home (Elizabeth-town), the home on
                    the South Fork of Nolin River (birthplace farm), and the Knob Creek home were
                    all located in 
                        Kentucky
                     within a radius of fifteen miles, in which had been waged, during the first forty years
                    of the nation's existence, a bitter controversy over slavery. There was no settlement in
                    America, west of the Aleghaney Mountains, where more consistent strife over the
                    slavery question was evident than in the locality where the three Lincoln homes were situated.7 In fact, the anti-slavery issue was so intense in 
                        Hardin county
                    , previous to the year 1816, that it is believed no other community in the entire
                    country was so torn by controversial strife over the ever-growing institution of human bondage, than
                    was the 
                        Kentucky
                     environment of Lincoln's childhood years.8 In writing of
                    the controversy, J. H. Spencer, the Baptist historian, said: "Slavery was by far the most
                    fruitful of mischief of all questions that agitated the Baptist churches of 
                        Kentucky
                     from 1788 until 1820."9 As the 
                        Hardin County
                     slavery question was argued principally in the churches, it is not surprising that
                    Thomas Lincoln was anxious to move his family to a more stable and contented community.10
            
            Not a few students versed in Lincolniana, have maliciously criticized Thomas Lincoln for his periodic
                    treks from one home site to another.11 If one should make an exhaustive study of
                    the facts behind the causes for his nomadic migrations, the conclusions would be that the Lincolns
                    were the 
                  
                            
                        6 "In 1811, when Abraham Lincoln was but two years old. the
                                tax list for 
                                    Hardin County
                                 (
                                    Kentucky
                                ) shows that there were 1007 slaves listed for taxation", Louis A.
                                Warren. The Slavery Atmosphere of Lincoln's Youth, 12.
                            "When Thomas and Nancy Lincoln moved to Indiana in 1816… the
                                ‘commissioners books' of 
                                    Hardin County
                                 reveal that taxes were paid on 1238 slaves within the county
                                limits." Louis A. Warren, Lincoln's Parentagc and
                                    Childhood, 289.7
                                
                                    Warren
                                , The Slavery Atmosphere of Lincoln's Youth,
                            7.
                        
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., 12.
                  
                     9 J. H. Spencer, A History of 
                                    Kentucky
                                 Baptists, I. 484.
                  
                     10 "This community not only had been saturated with slavery
                            arguments pro and con, for twenty-five years before Abraham Lincoln's nativity,
                            but, on the very date of his birth, the church within two miles of where he was born was in
                            the midst of the most prolonged distrubances which had ever occurred in the congregation
                            over the subject of slavery." 
                                Warren
                            , the Slavery Atmosphere of Lincoln's Youth, 8.
                  
                     11 In none of the pioneers was the spirit of restlessness more active
                            than in Thomas Lincoln. He could not settle down to the work of establishing himself
                            comfortably in the community in which he lived. He intended to improve his home conditions,
                            to build a better and larger house, just as soon as he could find a location to suit his
                            fancy. J. Roger Gore., The Boyhood of Abraham Lincoln, 51.
               
                     victims of defective land laws, unscruplous land owners, land
                    agents and land lawyers. At a very early period in the nation's history, large portions of
                    land in 
                        Kentucky
                     were obtained under 
                        Virginia
                     land warrants, in the names of many prominent and wealthy Americans. As the land was
                    not settled or assigned by them, the ownership of certain tracts was lost sight of by pioneers
                    looking for farms and homes, with the result that much of the territory of 
                        Kentucky
                     was claimed by several different parties. Pioneer settlers sometimes bought their land
                    three and four times, to effect a clear title. Others, in depsair and disappointment, abandoned
                    their estates and moved to other states or territories where they could get "Congress
                    Land" (government surveyed land), the title of which was indisputable. There were likely no
                    people in America so cursed with land litigation as the pioneer Kentuckians, because of the lack of
                    adequate land regulations pertaining to priority of ownership.12 Such
                    unfavorable and disgusting conditions caused the Lincolns to lose considerable money in 
                        Kentucky
                    , and were responsible in a large measure for their migration to Indiana.
            In summarizing Thomas Lincoln's disastrous holdings of 
                        Kentucky
                     land deeds and grants, interesting conclusions may be drawn. The father of the
                    President, from the year 1803 to 1816, purchased three farms. The first was sold with a loss of
                    thirty-eight acres, which represented a loss of eighteen English pounds. The second farm he bought
                    by a cash payment and the assumption of a small obligation, but he eventually lost the down payment
                    for the property, plus court costs. His third farm was lost through an ejectment suit.13 Such difficulties with land titles naturally caused Thomas LiincoIn to seek a new
                    country, where there was no overlapping of land grants, and where real property was adequately
                    surveyed into sections (square miles) and recorded with clear titles, once it was purchased. He
                    decided that Indiana offered good opportunities.
            When the Lincolns were dispossessed of their farm on Knob Creek by the heirs of Thomas Middleton,
                    there were nine other neighboring farmers who had purchased parts of the ten thousand acre Middleton
                    tract, who, likewise, lost 
                  
                     12 H. D. Taylor, 
                        
                           Ohio
                                        County, Kentucky
                        ,
                                in the Olden Days (Chapter on "Early Land Titles"), 47.
                  
                     13
                            
                                Warren
                            , Lincoln's Parentage and Childhood, 122.
               
                     their property.14 These nine property
                    owners were Jesse LaFollette, Isaac LaFollette, Will Brownfield, Clark Tucker, Peter Minges, Job
                    Dye, George Redmond, William Ash and Ignatius Strange.15 The plaintiffs decided
                    to make the Lincoln suit a test case of the ten ejectment suits, and after a prolonged court fight,
                    Thomas Lincoln left 
                        Kentucky
                    . It is erroneously believed by many, that the nine ejected families accompanied the
                    Lincolns on their journey to Indiana in 1816. While it is true that many of these families did
                    eventually leave 
                        Kentucky
                    , the Lincoln migration was a distinct and separate movement.16
            
            The 1816 Lincoln migration has received a three-fold discussion from several writers, who have
                    related facts and traditions regarding a prospecting trip, a water trip and a land trip made by
                    Thomas Lincoln, in effecting a permanent settlement in the new country across the 
                        Ohio
                    . These narrations, whether they be true or false, concerning the different Indiana
                    journeys of Thomas Lincoln, have caused considerable perplexing traditional data to be released,
                    which has beclouded the principal facts of the autumn of 1816 migration from 
                        Kentucky
                     to Indiana. Likewise, the journey to Indiana in the late fall of 1819, made by Thomas
                    Lincoln and Sarah Bush Johnston (and her children) shortly after their marriage in
                            
                  Elizabethtown, Kentucky
               , on December 2, 1819, has caused much confusion
                    regarding the Lincoln family migration of 1816.17
            
            Many Lincoln biographers, in their published works, have elaborated on a traditional story concerning
                    a water trip, which is alleged to have been made by Thomas Lincoln in the early autumn of 1816.18 It has been said that the trip was made on a raft or boat which was loaded
                    with several barrels or hogsheads of whisky and a set of carpenter's tools. The whisky was
                    supposed to have been received from the sale of the Knob Creek farm. According to the myth, the
                        
                  
                     14 Louis A. Warren, "Lincolns and LaFollettes,
                                Were They Kinsfolk"? Lincoln Lore, No. 124 (August 24, 1931). 4.
                  
                     15 Jesse LaFollette was the grandfather of the late Senator Robert
                            Marion LaFollette of 
                                Wisconsin
                            . Ibid., 4.
                  
                     16 Jesse LaFollette migrated to 
                                Harrison County
                            , Indiana in the fall of 1816. Ibid., 5.
                  
                     17 R. Gerald McCurtry, The Lincolns in
                                        
                           Elizabethtown, Kentucky
                        , 1–4.
                            "Following the death of Nancy Hanks Lincoln, two years after her arrival in
                            Indiana, Thomas Lincoln went back to Elizabethtown for a second wife. This new caravan
                            started from 
                        Elizabethtown, Kentucky
                     , in the month of December,
                            1819. with the following members: Thomas Lincoln (age 43), Sarah Johnston Lincoln (age 31),
                            Elizabeth Johnston (age 12), Matilda Johnson (age 8). and John I). Johnston (age
                            1)." See Lincoln Lore, No. 7. May 27, 1929.
                  
                     18 T. B. Peterson. and Brothers Life and Public Service
                                of Abraham Lincoln, (1861). 2–4.
               
                     crude water craft was wrecked, and Thomas Lincoln only
                    recovered his carpenter's tools. This dramatic incident cannot be accepted as truth,
                    because Thomas Lincoln could not have traded his farm, from which he was ejected, for whisky or any
                    other valuable consideration. This fact should eliminate all traditions relating to a water trip of
                    Lincoln's father to Indiana.
            It is an historic fact that the wagon and four-horse team of Ralph Grume were used as a mode of
                    conveyance for the Lincoln-Johnston wedding journey of 1819. Ralph Grume married Mary Lincoln, a
                    sister of Thomas Lincoln, and he is said to have hauled the family and household goods to the
                        Ohio River by way of the Grume farm, which was in 
                        Breckinridge county
                    , not far from Hardinsburg, the county seat.19 From this community,
                    it has been related, they proceeded to Hardinsburg, 
                        Kentucky
                    , and their course from there on is unknown, however, it is likely that the 1816
                    migration route was followed. As a result of this supposed visit to the Grume farm, a considerable
                    number of affidavits are on file erroneously stating that Abraham Lincoln traveled through the
                        Howe's Valley community of 
                        Hardin County
                     to 
                        Breckenridge County
                     and Hardinsburg in the year 1816.
            Many oral accounts, that have almost become legendary in the 
                        Kentucky
                        Lincoln country
                    , relate that Thomas Lincoln made six trips to Indiana. He is alleged to have made two
                    journeys there before his marriage to Nancy Hanks, then the migration trip with his wife and family
                    in the autumn of 1816, then after her death, he is said to have returned to 
                  Elizabethtown, Kentucky
                with his son, Abraham, for a visit which necessitated a return
                    journey. The next trip to Indiana was with his second wife, Mrs. Sarah Bush Johnston, in 1819, and
                    it is further related that a few years later Thomas and Sarah Bush returned to Elizabethtown for a
                    visit, which likewise resulted in a return journey to the Indiana Lincoln home. Regardless of the
                    many oral and recorded accounts pertaining to the travels of Thomas Lincoln, it is hardly likely
                    that he made over three trips to Indiana, the first being the prospecting trip, the second the
                    migratory journey of 1816 and the last trip, which was the Lincoln-Johnston wedding 
                  
                            
                        19 Louis A. Warren, Sarah Bush Lincoln, the Stepmother
                                    of Abraham Lincoln. Reprint from the Transactions of the 
                                        Illinois State
                                     Historical Society, 1926, 8.
                            "The eldest daughter, Mary, was married to Ralph Grume, and some of her
                                descendants are now living in 
                           Breckenridge
                                    County, Kentucky
                        ." Scripps, Life of Abraham
                                Lincoln, 8. See Note 4, above.
                        
               
                    
                    
                     journey in 1819. While all three Indiana trips are of unusual
                    interest, nevertheless, the journeys made before and after the fall migration of 1816, do not rank
                    historically with the Lincoln family movement, which was an important episode in the life of the
                    future President of the 
                        United States
                    .
            In writing of the facts concerning the land route followed in 1816, the date of departure is an
                    important item for an exhaustive study. One historian has established the time of the migration as
                    June, 1816, which is about five months too early, while another suggests the exodus date as November
                    1817, which is a year too late.20 Documentary evidence, in the form of an
                    endorsement filed in the Lincoln Knob Creek Farm ejectment suit, affirms that "the Lincolns
                    moved off the place in the fall of 1816." As a result of the discovery of a document in the
                    files of the 
                        Nelson County
                     (
                        Kentucky
                    ) Court, there is evidence that Thomas Lincoln was still in 
                        Kentucky
                     on November 11, 1816, when he appeared before a justice of the peace and made oath to a
                    bill in connection with his land litigation. This is the latest evidence known of the residence of
                    the Lincoln family in 
                        Kentucky
                    .21
            
            The birthplace farm, in which Thomas Lincoln still held an interest, was sold by a commissioner named
                    Benjamin Wright on December 19, 1816.22 If Lincoln remained for this sale, we
                    may place the migration date shortly after that date. However, it is unlikely that he remained for
                    this unpleasant transaction. He undoubtedly moved a few days after November 11, in order to escape
                    bad traveling conditions which would probably result from the usually bad winters of pioneer 
                        Kentucky
                    . In a newspaper clipping (identity unknown) which was incorporated into a scrap-book,
                    the statement is made that the weather during the early winter of 181–7 had been very
                    cold and stormy with frost and ice nearly every month, but that the first half of December was the
                    most pleasant season of the entire winter.23 If this weather report is accurate,
                    we may conclude that the Lincoln migration proceeded toward Indiana in the latter part of November
                    with 
                  
                     20
                            
                                Warren
                            . Lincoln's Parentage and Childhood, 290.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., 29–91.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., 117.
                  
                     23 The scrap book weather report is mentioned by Charles T. Baker,
                            editor of the Grandview (Indiana) Monitor, in a typewritten manuscript
                            entitled, "The Route and Ferriage of the Lincolns." This manuscript was
                            presented to the Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            , as proof of the correctness of a route over which the Lincolns are said to
                            have traveled. Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
               
                    
                    
                    
                    
                  THOMAS LINCOLN'S KNOB CREEK CABIN (NOT EXTANT) 
                        LaRue County, Kentucky
                     , 181–816
                  Photograph of the traditional Lincoln Knob Creek Cabin taken in the fall of 1903.
                  Courtesy of Lincoln National Life Foundation, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
               
                     cold and stormy weather but under favorable traveling
                    conditions.
            The type of conveyance used to transport Thomas Lincoln and his family, is not known. In all
                    likelihood, the conveyance was drawn by horses, with a few head of cattle driven along on foot.24 In the year 1816, the father of the President listed for taxes four head of
                    horses, and it is not reasonable to believe that he would dispose of them because of the
                        migration.25 Several biographers have vividly drawn upon their imaginations
                    and stated that the Lincolns packed their belongings upon three horses, while another says, two
                    horses were borrowed to carry their household effects. One biographer describes a spring-wagon drawn
                    by two horses, in which was seated upon a bed of straw Nancy Hanks Lincoln and her daughter,
                        Sarah.26 Numerous affidavits are on file, stating that Thomas Lincoln had a
                    cart (two-wheeled wagon) drawn by oxen, a cow and a saddle horse that constituted the mode of
                    conveyance. However, there is no documentary evidence which would lead one to believe that Thomas
                    Lincoln ever owned oxen while living in 
                        Kentucky
                    . The mere fact that he owned four horses would certainly indicate that he would not
                    have used oxen.27
            
            
               
                  24"No doubt their cavalcade was simply, a covered wagon stout and
                        roomy; horses, not less than three, a sow or two, a few hens ‘to start
                        with', and, of course, a dog." Ida M. Tarbell, In the Footsteps
                            of the Lincolns, 115. "He [Col. John Cowley] told me [John H. Hibbs] he saw
                            Lincoln when a small boy, when Tom Lincoln moved to Indiana, and that Tom Lincoln was a
                            mighty poor man as he had all his things in one wagon and room for his wife and family. He
                            said he saw and remembered the boy and girl in the wagon that passed his father's
                            house [Mill Creek Community] and that the boy must have had lots of horse sense and studied
                            hard or he never would have been president of the 
                                United States
                            . He lived the last 25 years of his life with no good feelings for that boy he
                            saw in the wagon with Tom Lincoln on their way to Indiana in the year 1816. Affidavit of
                            John H. Hibbs, May 16,1931. Collection of G. E. McMurtry, of Vine Grove, 
                                Ky.
                            
                  
               
               
                  25 The 
                            Hardin County
                         Commissioner's Tax Books, for the year 1816, list Thomas Lincoln as a
                        tithable with four horses. The 1815 entry lists four horses, one a stallion, and it is assumed,
                        he owned the stallion in 1816. In a brief prepared by the Corydon, Indiana, Lincoln Memorial
                            Highway Association, the statement is made, that the July, 1816, tax assessment, of Thomas
                            Lincoln, listed two cows. Page 3. Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
               
               
                  26
                        
                            Warren
                        , Lincoln's Parentage and Childhood, 292.
               
                  27"The affiant… states that he has heard older members
                        of the family say that Capt. Denton Geoghegan sold Thomas Lincoln a team as part payment for
                        work on said Geoghegan mill [near the head of Rough Creek], and said Thomas Lincoln Used this
                        team in moving his family to Indiana." Affidavit of B. H. Cecil, Cecilia, 
                            Kentucky
                        , June 23, 1931. Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                            Kentucky
                        . As Thomas Lincoln constructed the Geoghegan mill shortly after his marriage in
                        1806, it is unlikely that he kept the Geoghegan horses for ten years and then used them in the
                        migration journey of 1816. It is of interest to note, that ox teams were used by the Lincolns
                            in their migration from Indiana to 
                                Illinois
                            , in the year 1830. An excerpt from Lincoln's
                            "autobiographical sketch," prepared for John Locke Scripps, gives this
                            information concerning the ox teams and wagons which constituted the means of transport of
                            the sixth migration of President Lincoln's family in America: 
                                "March, 1830, Abraham, having just completed his twenty-first year, his
                                    father and family, with the families of the two daughters and sons-in-law of his
                                    stepmother, left the old homestead in Indiana and came to 
                                        Illinois
                                    . Their mode of conveyance was wagons drawn by ox-teams, and Abraham
                                    drove one of the teams." See Note 4, above.
                            
                  
               
            
            
            The household stores and personal effects that were taken along very likely consisted of furniture of
                    home manufacture made by Thomas Lincoln, clothing, a feather-bed, home-woven
                    "Kiverlids", kitchen utensils, a loom, a spinning-wheel and light farming
                    equipment. In all probability, the cabinet-making, wood-working tools of Thomas Lincoln were
                    carefully placed in a safe corner of the pioneer vehicle, and it is reasonable to believe that food
                    and camping equipment were carried along to facilitate the rigors of pioneer travel.28 Nancy Hanks Lincoln and daughter, Sarah, must have securely guarded their large family
                    Bible, along with the personal belongings that they treasured, while young Abraham had packed in the
                    wagon his Aesop's Fables, Dilworth's Speller and a few other
                    books that he had been able to acquire.29 No doubt, a large bundle of legal
                    papers, practically all in the hand-writing of Samuel Haycraft, Jr., the 
                        Hardin County
                     Court clerk, were taken along for future referencne in regard to muddled 
                        Kentucky
                     land claims.30
            
            It is mere supposition to say that the Lincolns, before they started their eventful journey, paid
                    their last respects at the grave of their infant son, Thomas, whose short span of life began and
                    ended at their Knob Creek Valley home.31 This infant child,
                    a brother of Abraham Lincoln, is now believed to have been buried in the Redmond family burying
                    ground, only one-half mile distant from their last 
                        Kentucky
                     home.32 Biographers have barely mentioned the infant Thomas, and a
                    tradition is current that the child died three days after birth and that George Redmond carried the
                    coffin that 
                  
                     28 As the traditional myth, that Thomas Lincoln made a "water
                            trip" to Indiana on. a raft loaded with whisky and carpenter's tools, has
                            no authentic foundation, it is ‘believed his tools were taken along on this
                            journey.
                  
                     29 "There are said to have been three books in the early 
                                Kentucky
                             home of the Lincolns the Bible, Dilworth's Speller
                            and Aesop's Fables. The Bible belonged to the parents; the
                            speller was undoubtedly purchased for the oldest child, and then passed on to her brother;
                            but it would appear that Acsop's Fablcs was Abraham's
                            very own. Tradition says, it was a gift from his mother." Lincoln
                                Lore, No. 58, May 19, 1930.
                  
                     30 In a letter, written by Abraham Lincoln to Samuel Haycraft, Jr., of
                                    
                        Elizabethtown, Kentucky
                     , dated May 28, 1860, the following statement
                            was made: "I do not think I ever saw you, though I well know who you
                            are—so well that I recognized your handwriting, on opening your letter, before I
                            saw the signature. My recollection is that Ben Helm was the first clerk [County Clerk of 
                                Hardin County
                             Court], that you succeeded him, that Jack Thomas and William Farleigh graduated
                            in the same office and that your handwritings were all very similar." The
                                question arises, how could Lincoln, after so many years, recognize Haycraft's
                                writing? An explanation would be. that Thomas Lincoln acquired, in his many 
                                    Hardin County
                                 Court transactions, considerable paper, and possibly Abraham Lincoln in his
                                youth, assisted his father in his accounts any may on numerous occasions have read these
                                documents written in Haycraft's hand. R. General McMurtry, "Lincoln
                                and the" Haycrafts," 
                           
                                        Hardin County
                                     Enterprise, August 27, 1936.
                  
                  
                     31 "The year 1811 is usually given as the time of both his
                            birth and death, although no record of either event is available." Lincoln Lore, No. 244, December 11, 1933.
                  
                     32 Francis E. Wylie. "Grave of Lincoln's Infant
                            Brother Believed Found," Herald Post,
                            
                        Louisville, Ky.
                     , October 23, 1933.
               
                     contained the body of the Lincoln child up the hill to the
                    Redmond graveyard.33 In later years, President Lincoln made the brief statement
                    in his autobiographical sketch, that "a brother, younger, died in infancy."34
            
            After leaving their home on Knob Creek, the family, no doubt, looked forward with great anticipation
                    to their eventful journey.35 Since the trails over which they were to travel,
                    passed through several well established towns, it is believed that the entire route was famiilar to
                    Thomas Lincoln. Travelers in this community were not an unusual sight as there were many families
                    loaded in covered wagons with all their worldly goods, moving from sections of Green, Hart, Hardin
                    (and that part of Hardin that is now LaRue) Counties towards the West or Northwest.36 The family, undoubtedly, expected to enjoy the journey, as they were to visit their old
                    friends in Elizabeth town and then move on to William Brumfield's home on Mill Creek, where
                    they intended to spend a few days.
            It is logical to believe that Thomas Lincoln, on his departure from Knob Creek, would select the road
                    to Elizabeth-town that ran near his home as well as because it was the most direct route of travel.
                    Such a road was located about three miles northeast from his farm, having been established in the
                    year 1793 and kept in repair up to and after the year of the migration.37
                    Traditional evidence, concerning this road, relates that Thomas Sparks, an early settler in this
                    community, was one of the first residents of the county to blaze a trail from Knob Creek to
                    Elizabeth town, which eventually became a wagon road and was used by the pioneers in their travels
                    to the county seat.38 The Lincoln Knob Creek Farm was located on the Nolin-
                        Bardstown
                     road, which was commonly called the Old 
                        Cumberland
                     Trail from 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Bardstown
                     to 
                        Nashville
                    . At the point where Knob Creek flows into the Rolling Fork of Salt
                    River, the 
                        Springfield
                    -Elizabethtown 
                  
                     33 George Redmond died March 1, 1811. at the age of 69, and lies
                            buried in the Redmond Cemetery. Ibid.
                  
                  
                     34 Scripps. Life of Abraham Lincoln.
                  
                     35 "I can scarcely believe that Nancy and Thomas Lincoln
                            would have left the state without a farewell visit to 
                                Washington
                             county, where both of them had spent so much time in their youth and where they
                            had been married." Tarbell, In the Footsteps of the Linrolns.
                            115.
                  
                     36 Affidavit of T. B. Henderson. October 5, 1931. File? of the Lincoln
                            Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
                  
                     37 Five attested copies of court orders, dating from 1793 to 1809.
                            taken from the order books of the 
                                Hardin County
                             Court Clerk's office, establishing the Elizabethtown-Springfield road,
                            and appointing surveyors and overseers to maintain said road, are on file with the Lincoln
                            Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
                  
                     38 Affidavit of T. H. Robert (great-great-grandson of Thomas Sparks).
                            Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
               
                     road crossed the Old 
                        Cumberland
                     Trail, and at this junction the Lincolns left the ancient highway and traveled in a
                    northwesterly direction to Elizabethtown. This ridge road crosses no streams and is located on a
                    divide between Nolin River on the south and the Rolling Fork of Salt
                        River on the north. This segment of the Elizabethtown-
                        Springfield
                     road traverses a section of the Muldraugh Hill range, which
                    section is called Cissell's Hill, and runs by the way of 
                        Roanoke
                     to Elizabethtown.39 The pioneer wagon trail was commonly called the 
                        Springfield
                     road in the Elizabethtown community, and Thomas Lincoln is believed to have traveled
                    practically its entire course in the year 1806 when he returned to Elizabethtown with his bride whom
                    he married in 
                  Springfield, Kentucky
               .
            The journey of 1816, no doubt, was very slow, even unusually slow, as they passed by the homes of
                    their neighbors and friends, who must have stopped them to bid them farewell. Tradition states, that
                    after proceeding on their way a short distance, the Lincolns stopped at the farm of Rollie Thomas,
                    now known as the Mack Thomas place, and fed their team under a large elm tree.40
                    Mrs. Jane Dunn, a friend and neighbor of Nancy Hanks Lincoln, upon hearing that the Lincolns had
                    stopped at the Rollie Thomas place, went to tell Mrs. Lincoln good-bye.41 The
                    departure through the Knob Creek community without doubt occasioned many brief moments of sadness,
                    but with firm determination the Lincolns continued their journey westward.
            The approximate distance from the Lincoln Knob Creek farm, by way of the old 
                        Springfield
                     road to Elizabethtown, is eighteen miles. Early accounts, concerning the first phase of
                    the journey, indicate that the Lincolns traveled only a short distance the first day, and according
                    to some of the older residents of the Knob Creek community, namely. Robert Cissell, Elias Johnson,
                    Raymond Johnson, Hawkins 
                  
                     39
                     Ibid. "I believe that the above mentioned
                            route was the one taken by Lincoln when he left 
                                Kentucky
                            . from information gathered from conversations I had with Austin Gollahoe
                            [Gollaher], and Mrs. Ann Thompson both of whom knew the Lincoln family well."
                            Declaration of Levi Brown. n. d., Hodgenville. 
                                Ky.
                             Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            . "The 
                                    Springfield
                                 road is on high, land and for this reason [is], the most probable route.
                                History, reason and observation has led me to entertain the conviction that the
                                Sprinafield road was the one the family took in migrating north." Declaration
                                of J. H. Florence of 
                           New Haven. Kentucky
                        , ex-magistrate of
                                        
                           LaRue County. Ky.
                        , n. D. Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway
                                Commission of 
                                    Kentucky
                                .
                  
                  
                     40 Affidavit of O. G. Atherton (grandson of William Atherton), January
                            17, 1931. Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
                  
                     41 Affidavit of Wesley Ballinger (grandson of Mrs. Jane Dunn), January
                            17, 1931. Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
               
                    
                    
                    
               
                  THE OLD 
                                CUMBERLAND
                             TRAIL
                  Knob Creek, 
                        LaRue County, Kentucky
                     
                  
                  Thomas Lincoln's Knob Creek farm was located on the Nolin-
                                Bardstown
                             road, which was commonly called the Old 
                                Cumberland
                             Trail, from 
                                Louisville
                             and 
                                Bardstown
                             to 
                                Nashville
                            . Upon the departure of the Lincolns from Knob Creek to Indiana they traveled
                            over a section of this old turnpike. This photograph, taken in the year 1903, shows that
                            little improvement had been made in the road, though approximately one hundred years had
                            passed since the Lincolns resided there.
                  Courtesy of Lincoln National Life Foundation, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
               
                     Woods and others, the Lincolns spent their first night on this
                    trip with William Atherton, a friend and neighbor, whose farm was located near the community of 
                        Roanoke
                    .42
            
            Upon resuming their journey the next day, it is believed that they arrived in 
                        Elizabethtown
                    . Here Thomas Lincoln lived and worked as early as 1796; here he brought his bride in
                    the year 1806 to establish their first home; here Sarah, their first child, was born on February 10,
                    1807; and here Nancy Hanks experienced a second premonition of motherhood, which resulted in the
                    birth of Abraham Lincoln on their farm along the South Fork of Nolin River on
                    February 12, 1809.43 After crossing Severn's
                    Valley Creek, the 
                        Springfield
                     road enters Elizabethtown from the east, and the Lincolns likely made their entrance
                    from that direction, which would take them by familiar landmarks associated with their former
                    Elizabethtown cabin home.44
            
            Elizabethtown, in the fall of 1816, presented a quaint, frontier appearance. Though some settlers had
                    arrived in the late fall of 1779, the town was founded in the year 1793, but not regularly
                    established until 1797. Here was located the county seat of 
                        Hardin County
                    , but the town did not experience rapid growth, as the third census taken in the year
                    1810 listed only one hundred eighty inhabitants.45 In spite of its small
                    population, Elizabethtown was a scene of much activity and presented to the Lincolns, particularly
                    young Abraham, a town of metropolitan proportions. It was the largest community Abraham Lincoln had
                    ever seen, and it was the only center of population in which the Lincolns had ever lived.46
            
            
               
                  42 Affidavit of T. H. Robert, December 3, 1931. Files of the Lincoln
                        Memorial Highway Commission of 
                            Kentucky
                        . Accordinr: to traditional evidence. the home of William Atherton was located
                            about one-half mile from the Elizabethtown-
                                Springfield
                             road. An Appeal to the Chairman and Committee of the Lincoln Memorial Route
                            Appointed for 
                                Kentucky
                             (Signed petition of 166 names), 2. Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway
                            Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
               
               
                  43 McMurtry, The Lincolns in Elizabrthtown. 
                                Kentucky
                            
                  . Pamphlet.
               
                  44 There is a tradition that the Lincolns visited in the home of
                        Nancy's uncle. Joseph Hanks, in 
                            Elizabethtown
                        . while en route to Indiana. however, there are several
                        documentary records that refute such a conclusion.
               
                  45 Lucius P. Little, Ben Hardin, His Times and
                        Contemporaries, 31.
               
                  46 In November 1936. a bronze tablet was erected on a new concrete bridge
                        that was constructed in 
                            Elizabethtown
                         by the 
                            Kentucky State
                         Highway Department. This tablet mentions the 1816 migration and records the fact
                        that the Lincoln family, in traveling to Indiana. passed over Severn's
                        Valley Creek and entered Elizabethtown. en route to their future
                        home. The tablet inscription is as follows: "Linroln-Haycraft Memorial Bridge. 1936.
                            Here on Severn's Valley Creek. Samuel Haycraft Senior. In The
                            Year 1797. hilt A Mill And Race Way. Thomas Lincoln, Father Of The 16th President Of The 
                                United States
                            , Was Employed To Assist In The Construction Of This Primitive Water Mill. And
                            It Was Here That He Received His First Regular Monetary Wages. Abraham Lincoln. In The Year
                            1816. When But Seven Years Of Age, Migrated With His Family Westward. Crossing
                                Severn's Valley Creek To Enter 
                        Elizabethtown, Kentucky
                     . Enroute To The State
               
            
            
            After calling upon their old friends, Thomas Lincoln, no doubt visited the 
                        Hardin County
                     Courthouse, because of his many land suits and legal transactions which were still
                    pending, and which were to be placed on the docket at the next term of court. It was at 
                        Elizabethtown
                     that the family deviated from their westward course and traveled northward over a route
                    originally called Bullitt's Salt Lick Trail. The location of Bullitt's Salt Licks,
                    where the first salt works in 
                        Kentucky
                     were established, was about three miles from Shepherdsville, and a considerable portion
                    of the old Salt Lick Trail is today called the Shepherdsville road. The wagon road followed by the
                    Lincolns, in the Mill Creek community ran parallel to an improved county seat trail, leading out of
                    Elizabeth-town which was located west of the Mill Creek Lincoln farm, and it was for the upkeep and
                    maintenance of this road that Thomas Lincoln was a petitioner in 1804. The first place of interest
                    as they traveled this way was the farm which Thomas Lincoln had purchased in the year 1803 and had
                    sold to Charles Melton in 1814. After passing their first farm, they continued northward to the
                    Douglas spring where tradition relates they stopped and ate their lunch.47
            
            According to affidavit, which from its source and apparent accurate detail, appears to be authentic,
                    the statement is made that the Lincolns traveled the Shepherdsville road to E. A. Vier's
                    place, and then turned west from there to the old Dowdell Ferry road in the direction of the William
                    Brumfield farm.48 The junction of the Dowdell Ferry road with the Shepherdsville
                    road at the E. A. Viers' property, was located about eight miles north of Elizabethtown.
                        
                  
                            Of Indiana. The 
                                    Hardin County
                                 Historical Society, 1936."
                            James Buchanan, who preceeded Abraham Lincoln in the presidency, lived in Elizahethtown. 
                                    Kentucky
                                 for several months, in the year 1813. within approximately twenty miles of
                                the Lincoln home on Knob Creek. R. Gerald McMurtry. James Buchanan in 
                                        Kentucky
                                    
                        , VRVC. Pamphlet. reprinted from the Filson Club
                                    History Quarterly. Louisille. 
                                    Kentucky
                                 (April, 1994). VIII. 7–7.
                        
                  
                     47 "She [Margaret Douglas] told me that Thomas Lincoln. Nancy
                            Lincoln. his wife. und the little boy, Abe, stopped at their spring and ate their lunch and
                            informed them that they were leaving 
                                Kentucky
                             for Indiana, and were on their way by the way of their sister Nancy Brumfield.
                            At that time many people on the Shepherdsville and Dowdell roads knew Thomas Lincoln as he
                            made frequent trips to and from William Brumfields, and prior to this time for twelve years,
                            had owned a farm a few miles south of the Douglas farm." Affidavit of Felix O.
                            Viers. June 23, 1930. Collection of G. E. McMurtry of Vine Grove. 
                                Kentucky
                            .
                  
                     48 "Thomas Lincoln and family started from Hodgenville
                            [Abraham Lincoln's Birthplace] and went to Elizabethtown. From there to E. A.
                            Viers' place [now owned by Mrs. Emma Cowley and Waverly Viers] and to James
                            McWilliams' place [now owned by Mrs. J. H. Shelton] to Isaac Emery's place
                            [now owned by Mrs. V. Shelton and F. O. Viers] to Capt. John Hibbs' place [now
                            owned by Mrs. Jenny Leonard] to Hezekiah Stovall's place [now owned by Mrs.
                            Leonard] to Rev. David Carr's place [now owned by Grover Cook] to John
                            Cowley's place [now owned by Josh Bird] and to Wm. Bramfield's place [now
                            owned by E. J. French] and stopped there." Ibid. The affiant
                            (Felix O. Viers) is mistaken regarding the starting point of the Lincoln family migration.
                            The 1816 migration began at Knob Creek in 
                                Kentucky
                             and anded at Little Pigeon Creek in Indiana.
               
                     After turning west from the Shepherdsville road to the Dowdell
                    Ferry road, the Lincolns traveled approximately two or three miles in a northwesterly direction, and
                    then turned from the Dowdell Ferry road to a pioneer trail which was established in the year 1802
                    that ran by the Brumfield farm. William Brumfield's home was located about six or seven
                    miles from the farm that Thomas Lincoln once owned. Thomas Lincoln traveled in this direction to
                    visit his mother, Bersheba, the widow of Abraham Lincoln, the pioneer Revolutionary War Captain, and
                    his sister, Nancy Ann Lincoln Brumfield.49 The Brumfield Mill Creek farm, where
                    Bersheba and her daughter Nancy Brumfield lived for more than thirty years, was situated
                    approximately twelve miles from Elizabethtown, which in pioneer times, would represent a
                    day's travel.50
            
            Nancy Ann Lincoln married William Brumfield on February 3, 1801, and it is believed Bersheba went to
                    live with her youngest daughter, after her family was scattered by marriage.51
                    ‘The Brumfields with the widowed mother probably settled on the Thomas Lincoln farm that
                    he purchased in 1803. When the Lincoln family visited the Brumfields en route to
                    Indiana, they were living on a different farm, as Thomas Lincoln had sold his property to Charles
                    Melton two years before. Many are of the opinion that Thomas Lincoln's other sister, Mary
                    Lincoln Crume, at this time, was living in 
                        Breckinridge County
                    , and in all probability, because of her isolated location, she did not bid the family
                    farewell when they left the state. It is of interest to recall a previous statement that early
                    traditional accounts relate, that Thomas Lincoln with his second wife and her children visited the
                    Crume 
                  
                     49 "Col. Jim Hays said that when Thomas Lincoln went to
                            Indiana to live, he was at Wm. Brumfield's for several days, and while there went
                            over to the Crandel Shed neighborhood into what was then 
                                Jefferson County
                             to collect some money that was owing him by a man that ran a still to make
                            whiskey." Ibid.
                  
                  
                     50 "Bersheba Lincoln made her home with the Brumfields until
                            her death in 1832." G. E. McMurtry. "More Lincoln Facts Are
                            Told." Elizabethtown News, January 20, 1931.
                  
                     51"We are positive that the first name of Abraham
                            Lincoln's wife in 1780 and the widow he left in 1786 was Bersheba but there is no
                            record which gives her family name. Whether or nut she is the woman, whom Abraham Lincoln
                            rnarried in 1770 and the mother of all his children is problematical." Lincoln Loc, No. 168. June 27, 1932. Nancy Ann Lincoln Brumfield was born March
                                25. 1780, and a permit taken from the files of the marriage bonds and permits for the
                                year 1801. of 
                           Washington County, Kentucky
                        . reveal that Bernheba was
                                her mother by blood relationship. There were five Lincoln children,
                                namely—Mordecia. Josiah, Thomas, Mary and Nancy. It has been suggested that
                                the four older children were the progeny of Captain Abraham Lincoln's supposed
                                first wife. Lincoln Lore No. 174. August 8, 1932. 
                                    Warren
                                , Linculn's Parcntage and Childhood. 15.
                            As Bersheba was such a faithful wife and mother, and as she kept her orphan children
                                together until they reached maturity, and because of her motherly care and the devotion
                                of the Lincoln children for hen welfare. it has appeared to the average layman, not
                                familiar with historical research. that a blood relationship must have existed between
                                the mother and all of the Lincoln children.
                  
               
                     home in 
                        Breckenridge County
                     in the fall of 1819, on the way to Indiana.
            It is important to note that nearly all of Lincoln's relatives and many of his friends at
                    that time lived in and around Mill Creek.52 The Crutcher, Rogers, Haycraft,
                    Moffitt, Cowley and Viers families lived in this community. While near-by in the Vine Grove section,
                    which was adjacent to the Mill Creek community, there were to be found numerous Nall and Van Meter
                    families; and also Lewis, Moorman, 
                        Daviess
                    , Ray, Woolfolk, Ditto, Haynes, Corbett, Nevitt, 
                        Brown
                     and Howell families, all of whom were, presumably, acquaintances of the Lincolns.53
            
            The Lincolns visited in the Mill Creek community for several days, and it is to be supposed that the
                    two Lincoln children thoroughly enjoyed playing with their cousins, Mary, Elizabeth, Lucretia and
                    Susan, the four daughters of the Brumfields.54 This occasion may have been the
                    first, and it was certainly the last, time that Bersheba, the grandmother of the future president,
                    ever saw young Abraham, named for her husband and his grandfather who had been massacred near their
                    Long Run home in 
                        Jefferson
                     county, in 1786, by a marauding band of Indians thirty years before. This youth was her
                    youngest son's youngest child.55
            
            After the termination of their short visit with the Brum-field family, the Lincolns traveled directly
                    west, approximately twelve miles, passing within the first mile, the First Regular 
                  
                     52 "The Sixth Magisterial District of 
                                Hardin County
                             [Mill Creek Community] in which "The Sixth the Brumfields lived, now
                            contains more living descendants of Abraham Lincoln. the first [Captain Abraham Lincoln I,
                            than likely any state." Affidavit of G. E. McMurtry Grandson of Samuel Haycraft,
                            Jr.], author of The History of 
                           Elizabethtown, Kentucky
                        
                      (1869) February 8, 1930. Files of the Lincoln
                            Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
                  
                     53 G. E. McMurtry, "More Lincoln Facts Are Told."
                            Elizabethtown News, January 20, 1931.
                  
                     54"During these ten years [while living on Mill Creek] I did
                            hear Mrs. Cretia [Lucretia] Austin [daughter of Nancy Lincoln Brumfield] talk to my father
                            and mother at various times and did hear her say that her Uncle Tom and his family stopped
                            several days with her father and mother [Brumfields] when he moved his family to Indiana.
                            Affidavit of G. E. McMurtry. February 8, 1930. Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway
                            Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            , Lincoln Lore ("Abraham Lincoln's First
                            Cousins"). No. 322. June 10, 1935. "My mother, who died in the year
                                1915 and was 82 years old at her death, was the Youngest daughter of the large family of
                                David Cam. who was a neighbor to the same Wm. Brumfield, who married the sister of
                                Thomas Lincoln and lived less than one half mile from the Same Wm. Brumfield and his
                                family. I have often heard my mother repeat what an older sister had told her in regard
                                to the Lincoln family, stopping for a short visit with Wm. Brumfield. Thos.
                                Lincoln's brother in law, and also said some of them came riding and some of
                                them came walking. She said that they were moving from 
                                    Kentucky
                                 to Indiana." Affidavit of W. G. Cowley, January 18, 1930. Files of
                                the Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                    Kentucky
                                .
                  
                  
                     55 On this farm [Brumfield's Mill Creek home] is perhaps the
                            only man-made thing now visible upon which Thomas Lincoln and his family might have gazed
                            back in the Autumn of 1816. It is the old ‘chimney to the house in which
                            Abraham.8 grandmother. Bersheba, lived and died." The 
                        
                                    Hardin County
                                 Enterprise. July 13, 1933.
               
                     Baptist Church of Mill Creek and the church cemetery iii which
                    the mother, sister and relatives of Thomas were to eventually find their last resting places.56 They followed the old pioneer trail (established in 1802) through Vine Grove
                    (Viney Grove) and after crossing Otter Creek, they traveled through what is now known as the
                    community of Flaherty to the town of Big Spring. The trail from Flaherty followed by way of the
                    Woolfork brick house at Jackey's Grove, then on to Big Spring.57 Here
                    emigrating pioneers usually camped, repaired their equipment and stocked up with provisions for the
                    remainder of their journey. Big Spring is located in 
                        Kentucky
                     where the boundaries of Hardin, Meade (established 1823) and 
                        Breckinridge counties
                     meet. In the village a large underground stream rises to the surface, only to find
                    again its subteranian channel a short distance away.58 Such a stream afforded an
                    excellent watering place for the travelers. Upon the arrival of the Lincoln family in this pioneer
                    community, they probably fell in with other groups of emigrants and at this point for a short time
                    the Lincoln Party became a part of a larger western caravan.
            The Lincolns likely remained in Big Spring a short while, and they probably became acquainted with
                    some of the residents of the village.59 An interesting tradition relates that
                    while the Lincolns were in Big Spring, a resident there procured 
                  
                     56 The Mill Creek Baptist Church Cemetery contains the graves of many
                            early pioneer Kentuckians. In this three acre plot a rough hewn stone marks the wave of
                            Bersheba Lincoln, the grandmother of the President. another primitive slab marks the grave
                            of Nancy Lincoln Brumfield, paternal aunt of Abraham Lincoln. This church yard cemetery was
                            presented to the State of 
                                Kentucky
                             on August 11, 1936, to be developed as a unit of the 
                                Kentucky State
                             Park System. Efforts are now being made to have a road constructed from the
                            Dixie Highway (31W) in northern 
                                Hardin County
                             to the cemetery, located approximately two miles north of the highway. in order
                            that the historic site may be made available to the public. Samuel J. Boldrick. Lincoln Lore, from the Courier-Journal. June 14, 1936.
                                "A mile on is the old cemetery of the First Regular Baptist Church of Mill
                                Creek, in which five members of the original Lincoln family are buried. Sixteen direct
                                descendants of Nancy Ann Lincoln Brumfield still live in the Mill Creek community. and
                                the, family names of Nancy and Abraham still predominatequot;. 
                           
                                        Hardin County
                                     Enterprise, July 13, 1933.
                            "Hard by (Fort Knox Gold Depository—$6,000.000,000 in 
                                    United States
                                 gold on deposit) sleeps. with only a slab of rough limestone, untouched by
                                chisel or saw, at her head, the grandmother of Abraham Lincoln. surrounded by pioneers
                                of her generation. all of whose lives were liven in severe simplicity."
                                Editorial: "Fifty Trains of Gold." The 
                                    Louisville
                                
                                Times, August 12, 1936.
                  
                  
                     57 Arthur F. Hall and others: Lincoln Memorial Way
                                Through Indiana. Privately printed by Governor Harry G. Leslie (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1932), 25.
                  
                     58 This subterranian stream has been referred to in various localities
                            as Sinking Creek, Lost Run Creek and List River.
                  
                     59"In regard to the Lincoln Highway and Thomas
                            Lincoln's Journey thru this part of 
                                Kentucky
                            . with his family I have heard many times, years ago that he made camp at Big
                            Spring, 
                                Ky.
                            , while en route from Elizabethtown to Hardinsburg."
                            Affidavit of Sue M. Board. October 13, 1930. Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway
                            Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            . "I. John Nelson Tucker wish to certify in this statement that I
                                was horn April 11, 1863 about 20 mi[les] south and a little west of Big Spring. Meade
                                Co. 
                                    Ky.
                                 That I heard my grandfather Jim Tucker who died in 1880 say that he saw Tom
                                Lincoln
                  
               
                     from Thomas Lincoln a book in which he had written his name,
                    and which belonged to young Abraham. According to the story, the book, of which the title is
                    unknown, was in the possession of Mrs. Lydia Ann Williams a number of years but was eventually lost
                    by her in house cleaning time and was probably burned.60
            
            After getting under way, the caravan left Big Spring and proceeded to the next important stop on
                    their itinerary, which was Hardinsburg, 
                        Kentucky
                    .61 This old settlement was named for Captain William Hardin, a
                    noted hunter and Indian fighter, was laid out in town lots in 1782 and incorporated in 1800.
                    Certified court records reveal that there were several roads leading from Big Spring to Hardinsburg,
                    however, in this case, it is believed the Lincolns followed the most direct route by way of the Lost
                    Run road to Harned.62 From this point they likely pursued a straight course over
                    what is now Federal Highway 60 to the town of Hardinsburg.
            This Community of Hardinsburg is rich in tradition regarding the Lincoln migration of 1816. One story
                    of interest relates that the Lincoln party was delayed there on account of illness of one member of
                    the family.63 As certain phases of the tradition do not ring true to historic
                    facts, this must necessarily be discounted. Another tradition brought forth by Logan Murray, a 
                        New York
                     banker and native of Hardinsburg, has received considerable attention in several
                    published works. This tradition relates that Colonel David R. Murray conversed with the Lincoln
                    family while they stopped in the road in front of his, house at Hardinsburg, and that his colored
                    servant, Minerva, gave young Abraham milk at his doorstep. In the year 1860, this fact was recalled
                    in the Murray home and 
                  with his family including the little son Abraham Lincoln when he pawed through Big
                            Springs. Meade Co…. when he moved his family to Indiana about
                            1816."' Affivadit of J. N. Tucker, March 1, 1930. Files of the Lincoln
                            Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
                  
                     60 Affidavit of C. M. Williams (son of Lydia Ann Williams) January 9,
                            1931. Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
                  
                     61 The distance between Big Spring and Hardinsburg is approximately 20
                            miles.
                  
                     62 The Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of Indiana in its published
                            report refers to the Lost Run Road as the Lost River Road. Both names
                            are correct. Hall, Lincoln Memorial Wag Through Indiana, 25.
                  
                     63 "John DeHaven [the uncle of Judge Matthias Miller] told
                            him that the Lincolns spent two or three weeks at a small cabin at the south edge of
                            Hardinsburg as they were moving to Indiana; that some one of the Lincoln party became ill
                            and they remained there until this member of the family recovered. and that they received
                            charity from the settlers in Hardinsburg." George L. Ridenour Brief In Behalf of
                            the Route from Elizabethtown to Big Spring and Thence to 
                                Brandenburg
                            . Crossing the 
                                Ohio
                             at That Place," 21. Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission
                            of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
               
                     both Colonel Murray and his aged woman servant remembered the
                        occasion.64
            
            It has been suggested that Thomas Lincoln, while in the vicinity of Hardinsburg, left his westward
                    course and traveled southeast into the remote interior of 
                        Breckinridge county
                     to the Crume farm.65 Here it is related the Lincoln family visited
                    Mary Lincoln Crume, the eldest sister of Thomas Lincoln and her husband, Ralph Crume, before
                    continuing on the last half of their journey. Such a visit would have required at least two days,
                    and undoubtedly after the family had proceeded as far as Hardinsburg they were intent upon reaching
                    their destination. If the Crume farm had been located on their route of travel, the pioneer home
                    would unquestionably have been an important stop in their itinerary. It is not believed, however,
                    that the Lincolns visited the Crumes in 1816.
            Leaving Hardinsburg, the party turned to the left, after passing Fort Hardin, and followed the Yellow
                    Banks Road in order to effect a direct route to their destination.66 This ridge
                    road avoided deep fords and continued westward to the Ohio River, where they
                    were to find, after crossing the river, an established road in Indiana. It is not believed the
                    migrating party would deviate from their course at this point to follow a road along the banks of
                    the Ohio River because in the territory of what is now 
                        Hancock county
                    , the 
                        Ohio
                     bottoms vary in width from one to seven miles.67 As it is thought
                    the 
                        Ohio
                    
                    
                  
                     64
                            
                                Warren
                            , Lincoln's Parcntage and Childhood, 293.
                  
                     65 Local traditions relate that the Crume farm was located about one
                            and one-half miles north from Hurdson, which is situated near the 
                                Hardin County
                             boundary line. Affidavit of J. A. Quiggins, January 9, 1930: Affidavit of W. H.
                            Tucker. January 10, 1930. Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            . The Crume farm is also referred to as being located near 
                                    Fairfield
                                 in 
                                    Breekenridge County
                                 in the vicinity of Hudson and Constantine. Affidavit of George Lucas, June
                                23, 1981. Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                    Kentucky
                                .
                  
                  
                     66 "Mr. Matthias Miller, Hardinsburg. told Jo. C. Pell,
                            Lewisport. in 1930, that the Lincolns came through Hardinsburg and turned to the left after
                            passing Fort Hardin. This would put them on the Hardinsburg and Yellow-Banks
                            Trail." Charles T. Baker, "The Route and Ferriage of The
                            Lincolns" (typewritten manuscript). 2. Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
                  
                     67 Lewis and Richard H. Collins, History of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 11. 304. See for 
                                Hancock County
                            . "This is to certify that William Clark, who was born about the
                                year 1800, told me on many occasions that Thomas Lincoln and his family went down what
                                was then the old Yellow Banks road when they migrated from 
                                    Kentucky
                                 to Indiana. Mr. Clark lived practically all of his life in this
                                section." Affidavit of R. H. Hatfield, January 29, 1932. Files of the Lincoln
                                Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                    Kentucky
                                .
                            "We, the undersigned citizens of 
                           Hancock
                                    County. Kentucky
                         state,
                                that on many occasions we have heard S. D. Lain say that his father, Lewis Lain. told
                                him that Thomas Lincoln and his family passed clown the 
                                    Owensboro
                                 and Hardinsburg road on their way to Indiana. S. D. Lain was born in 1845.
                                and was a resident of 
                                    Hancock County
                                 all of his life. His father Lewis Lain, was one of the first settlers in
                                this part of the county." Affidavit of W. D. Basham and Victoria Lain Basham.
                                January 22, 1932. Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                    Kentucky
                                .
                            "This is to certify that I have heard my father. John Nix. and also other old
                                people talk of Thomas Lincoln and his family coming. down the old Yellow Ranks
                        
                  
               
                     was swollen by the fall rains in 1816, it is reasonable to
                    believe the Lincolns would take a high ridge road away from the tributaries of the large and sinuous
                    water course.
            There is ample information to be found in the order books of the 
                        Breckinridge County
                     Court regarding the road from Hardinsburg to Yellow Banks which was established at the
                    beginning of the nineteenth century (1801). This old wagon road was an important artery of travel
                    and was used by early Kentuckians in their migration to Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                     and other territories or states. In traveling from Hardin and neighboring counties to
                    Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , this trail was usually selected as an established route of migration. It is to be
                    supposed that many of the emigrant families, that the Lincoln party encountered while en route to Indiana, were traveling toward Shawneetown as their first point of destination
                    in the 
                        Illinois country
                    . Early documentary records are explicit in defining the road as being fifteen feet wide
                    and numerous orders state that the road was to be reconstructed at certain points in order to
                    facilitate travel.68 Additional orders require that the road be maintained,
                    indicating that the Yellow Banks Road was an important pioneer highway.
            According to tradition the family on this segnielit of the journey traveled near the town of
                    Patesville, passing within one and one half miles east of where the town now stands.69 Located on their route in this vicinity was the home of William Pate, which is said to
                    have been the only house on the road from Hardinsburg to what is now known as the 
                  road [now known as the 
                                Owensboro
                             and Hardinshurg road] as they went, from 
                                Kentucky
                             to Indiana." Affidavit of C. S. Nix. March 12, 1932. Files of the
                            Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
                  
                     68 There are nine attested copies of court orders. in the files of the
                            Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            , appointing overseers. their successors. et cetra. of the
                            Yellow Banks road, dating from the years 1805 to 1812. This early evidence concerning the
                            road was taken from Order book No. 2 of the 
                                Breckinridge County
                             Court Clerk's office. which directs that the Yellow Banks road was to
                            be kept in repair fifteen feet wide.
                  
                     69 "I am willing to say that having been a surveyor over a
                            great part of 
                                Breckinridge
                             and 
                                Hancock
                             Counties For some 44 years, that I have had some knowledge of the roads in
                            these counties and that for the last twenty years I have given a great deal of attention to
                            the ministry of the Gospel in the Baptist Churches and the records of same. I am well
                            acquainted with the history of western Breckenridge and 
                                Hancock
                             Counties and from the records of Piagah [now Mt. Pisgah] Church. the date given
                            for its organization is 1797, and as Hardinsburg was organized in 1782, one a church
                            community the other a small town. I am not surprised when I see in the records of 
                                Breckinridge County
                             as early as 1803 that the road leading from one to the other in styled as the
                            old road, and I also know that the road so styled ran by Clover Creek Church and Mattingly
                            and Pisgah Church in 
                                Breckinridge County
                            , and to Patesville for rather Wm. Pate's place] one and one-half miles
                            east of where the town now stands, and on west by 
                                Bethlehem
                             Church, crossing Horse Fork of 
                                Blackford
                             Creek and on to Pellville. Is styled in 1803 as the old Yellow Banks Road
                            (which means 
                                Owensboro
                             now). All these dates being prior to 1816 by at least 12 or 13 years.
                            Lincoln's Caravan most likely took the well heaten track of the oldest road that
                            led the direction he desird to go. that is to 
                                Spencer County
                            . Indiana." Affidavit of F. M. C. Jolly. January 20, 1932. Files of the
                            Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
               
                     village of Pellville.70 Here at the Pate
                    home, according to early accounts, the Lincoln family spent the night, resuming their travel the
                    next day.71 Another traditional story that is current in this community and
                    which seems contradictory to the Pate-Lincoln tradition, because in all probability each story
                    relates to the same date, is that the Lincoln family spent the night at the tavern of John Newton,
                    located four miles east of Patesville, before continuing their journey.72
            
            Veering to the north, the party left the Yellow Banks Trail and proceeded through the sparcely
                    settled country directly toward the Ohio River.73 This last
                    portion of their route through 
                        Kentucky
                     was undoubtedly tiresome and uneventful, but all looked forward with bouyant spirits to
                    the nearness of their approach to La Belle Riviere. Here young Abraham was to
                    experience for the first time the crossing of an important boundary line, and the thrill of viewing
                    for the first time the great stream, called by many the most beautiful river in the world.74
            
            The Lincoln party is believed to have approached the 
                        Kentucky
                     side of the Ohio River, opposite or nearly opposite the mouth of
                    Anderson Creek, a stream which flows into the 
                        Ohio
                     from the Indiana side.75 The nearest village across from the 
                        Kentucky
                     bank was 
                        Troy
                    , and there can be no doubt that their objective on the Indiana side was this part of
                    southern Indiana. 
                        Troy
                     was settled in 1811 and was the capital of 
                  
                     70 "I have heard him [Solomon Abenchain] say that when he
                            came to this place [1825] that the Pate place, near what is now Patesville, was the only
                            house on the road from Hardinsburg. 
                                Ky.
                            , to where he located near Pellville, 
                                Ky.
                            " Affidavit of Sadie (Abenchain) Richardson. January 29, 1932. Files of
                            the Lincoln Memorial High-way Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
                  
                     71 "Silas Taylor, who was a resident of this community many
                            years ago. told me about 1880 that Minor E. Pate. who lived about one mile east of
                            Patesville, told him that Thomas Lincoln and his family stopped at his father's
                            home as they were going from Hodgenville, 
                                Ky.
                            , to Indiana." Affidavit of J. T. Pulliam. January 29, 1932. Files of
                            the Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
                  
                     72 "This is to certify that Robert and Toll Newton. sons of
                            John Newton, told me that their father told them that Thomas Lincoln and his family spent
                            the night at his tavern. about four miles east of Patesville, 
                                Ky.
                            , when they migrated from 
                                Kentucky
                             to Indiana. Also, Minor Pate told him that Thomas Lincoln and his family went
                            the night at his home, a short distance east of Patesville, as they migrated from 
                                Kentucky
                             to Indiana." Affidavit of John A. Lynd, January 28, 1932. Files of the
                            Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
                  
                     73 The approximate distance, traveled by the Lincolns from Hardinsburg
                            to the Ohio river, is about thirty-five or forty miles. No doubt two or
                            three days were rewired to traverse this section of territory.
                  
                     74 "The best seasons for navigation on the Ohio
                                River. were Spring and Autumn: for if the journey was attempted in Winter, it
                            was rendered dangerous by the floating ice, which made extra watchfulness very necessary.
                            and if in Summer, the low-ness of the waters caused much delay from the stranding of the
                            boat on the sandbars. John Randolph was very nearly right when he described the 
                                Ohio
                             as frozen one-half the year and dry the other half." Mary M. Feline,
                            "Early Navigation Of The 
                                Ohio
                            ." Lenlie's Monthly. October, 1888. There is
                            no indication from early historical accounts that the Ohio River was
                            frozen when the Lincolns crossed the stream in the late fall of 1816.
                  
                     75 "The Lincolns Crossing The 
                                Ohio
                            ", Lincoln Lore, No. 177, August 29, 1932.
               
                    
                    
                        Perry County
                    . Considerable river traffic was carried on iii this town, and here was located the
                    nearest settlement to the Indiana Lincoln land.76 In the campaign biography of
                    Lincoln written in June, 1860, by Joseph H. Barrett, who likely obtained his information concerning
                    the crossing of the 
                        Ohio
                     by the Lincolns from Lincoln himself, the following information is given: 
                        Arrived at the appointed landing on the banks of the 
                                Ohio
                            , it only remained to embark the little caravan upon a flatboat, and to cross
                            the stream, now swelled to fair proportions by the autumn rains. Finally, after reaching the
                            Indiana side, the adventurers landed at or near the mouth of Anderson's creek, now
                            the boundary between the counties of Perry and 
                                Spencer
                            , about one hundred and forty miles below 
                                Louisville
                            , by the river, and sixty above 
                                Evansville
                            .77
                  
                    
            
            Nearly all of the early historians refer to Thompson's Ferry, which was operated on the 
                        Ohio
                     in the vicinity of the mouth of Anderson Creek, as the location of the crossing of the
                    Lincolns. Later biographers have adhered to the same conclusion. Records filed in the 
                        Breckinridge County
                     Court house in Hardinsburg, 
                        Kentucky
                    , reveal that a ferry was operated in the year 1816 on the Ohio
                    River near the mouth of Anderson Creek called Thompson's Ferry. Other roads
                    mention the appointment of an overseer of a road from Thompson's Ferry towards Hardinsburg.
                    One document dated January 16, 1815, suggests a change, in a road so as to strike the Ohio
                        River at Thompson's Ferry. On the committee selected to consider the change
                    of route, the name of Hugh Thompson appears, which would suggest that he was the owner of the ferry.
                    The date of this 
                        Breckinridge County
                     Court record reveals that Thompson's Ferry was operated approximately two
                    years before the 1816 migration,78 a fact of which Thomas Lincoln no doubt was
                    cognizant.
            As the Ohio River crossing was the most exciting adventure of the entire Lincoln
                    family migration of 1816, a voluminous amount of traditional stories are current concerning the
                    event. Claims have been made, based on tradition, that the Lincolns crossed the Ohio
                    River at practically every 
                  
                     76 "
                                Troy
                             was the county seat of 
                                Perry County
                             at the time the Lincolns migrated, and it is reasonable to expect that trails
                            would lead to this town from different parts of the county. The town was surveyed as early
                            as March, 1816. and ninety-six lots and a public square were laid off." Arthur F.
                            Hall et al, Lincoln Memorial Wall Through Indiana, 2%
                  
                     77 Barrett. Joseph H., The Life Of Abraham Lincoln,
                            22.
                  
                     78
                            Lincoln Lore, No. III. August 29, 1932.
               
                    
                    
                  
                  BOATHOUSE AT MOUTH OF ANDERSON CREEK (INDIANA)
                  This boathouse is at the approximate site of the ferry used by the Thomas Lincoln family when
                            the crossing of the Ohio River was made in 1816. This photograph was
                            taken about the year 1910.
                  Courtesy of Lincoln National Life Foundation, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
               
                     ferry site from West Point to 
                        Owensboro
                     on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side of the river.79 Corresponding claims have also been produced
                    on the Indiana side of the 
                        Ohio
                    , but after an exhaustive study by many historians of available data, the crossing at
                    Thompson's Ferry appears to be, without a doubt, the location of the historic passage.
            Upon the arrival of the Lincoln party at Thompson's Ferry, it is believed that other
                    emigrating families were here waiting to be transported to the Indiana side.80
                    Barrett in his Lincoln biography, speaks of the river as swollen "to fair proportions by
                    the Autumn rains." If the river was at flood stage, it must be concluded that other parties
                    were at the river 
                  
                     79 The ferries from West point to 
                                Owensboro
                             on the Ohio River that have received considerable study in
                            connection with the Lincoln migration to Indiana in 1816, but which are necessarily
                            discarded in favor of the Thompson Ferry near the mouth of Anderson Creek are: Henry
                                Goosenberry's Ferry (
                                    Boone
                                's Ferry at 
                                    Boone
                                's Ford), 2 1/2 miles west of West Point. 
                                    Ky.
                                
                     
                            Norris Ferry (Sturgin's Ferry), 8 miles northwest of Tip Top, 
                                    Ky.
                                
                     
                            Brandenburg Ferry. 
                           Brandenburg, Ky.
                        
                     
                            Doup's Ferry. 1 mile west of 
                           Brandenburg. Ky.
                        
                     
                            Weatherholt Ferry, Town of Cloverport. 
                                    Ky.
                                
                     
                            Sandy Creek Landing (from mouth of 
                                    Blackford
                                 Creek to mouth of Sandy Creek), 12 miles below the mouth of Anderson Creek.
                            The Lincoln traditions concerning the Weatherholt Ferry have become firmly imbedded in
                                the minds of many persons, and today numerous residents living along the Ohio
                                    River in the vicinity of Cloverport emphatically maintain the contention
                                that the Lincolns crossed the Ohio River at that place. In
                                consideration of the established facts of history and because of some questionable
                                conditions concerning the tradition anil the documentary evidence produced, both as to
                                origin and discovery. the entire claim is necessarily discarded and not considered in
                                this study. The Weatherholt document upon which all claims are based is dated August 29,
                                1866. which was written by Jacob Weatherholt Jr. [son of Jacob Weatherholt. Sr.], and
                                which is alleged to have been found several years ago. relates in part the following
                                information: My father. Jacob Weatherholt, Jr., [Sr.] ferried Thomas Lincoln and family,
                                wife Nancy, daughter. Sarah, and son. Abraham, age eight years, from the Hills of 
                                    Kentucky
                                 to Indiana. [and also property] consisting of a yoke of oxen. a cow. a
                                cart, and some camping outfit by canoe and raft of logs from what is now Clover Creek
                                [Cloverport] 
                                    Ky.
                                , to Indiana, and landed on land and camped overnight on land, I now own and
                                hold deed for reference and next day male his way clown the Indiana banks (it the 
                                    Ohio
                                 by Indian trails and paths and camped the second night at what is known as 
                                    Rock Island
                                . where General Lafayette was recked in 1825. and then made way to his New
                                Indiana Home where he had taken up a Federal land claim before at 
                                    Vincennes
                                …. " The original of this document was found attached to
                                Deed Book A. Page 9. in the recorders office at the 
                                    Perry County
                                , Indiana, Court House in 
                                    Cannelton
                                , Indiana, attached to the margin of a deed from Jacob Weatherholt, Sr., to
                                Jacob Weatherholt, Jr., transferring 52 acres of land located at what is now Tobinsport,
                                Indiana. The Corydon Indiana Lincoln Highway Association, "A Brief on The Route
                                of Thomas Lincoln through Indiana To 
                                    Lincoln City
                                ;: includes numerous Weatherholt references: George L. Ridenour, Briefs in
                                Behalf Of The outr from Elizabrthtown To Big Spring And Thence To 
                                    Brandenburg
                                . Crossing The Ohio River At That Place"
                                (includes numerous Weatherholt references). Files of Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission
                                of 
                                    Kentucky
                                .
                            The traditions relative to the Sandy Creek Landing are also of unusual interest:
                                "The Murphy Brothers [Allen, Jr., Edward. Ethan, Zeb and Taylor] ferried the
                                Lincoln party in a woodboat and the Lincoln family camped two days at the woodyard
                                before continuing on their journey to their new home. They had a cart drawn by oxen. a
                                cow and a saddle horse. The woodyard was at the mouth of Little Sandy Creek. Indiana.
                                nearly opposite the mouth of 
                                    Blackford
                                 Creek, in 
                                    Kentucky
                                ." WHY THE STORY OF THE CROSSING POINT HAS BEEN KEPT
                                    HIDDEN.
                            "The Murphys were slave traders… for [this] reason. the Lincolns and
                                the Rays and all the families connected with them by marriage refused to tell where the
                                ferriage actually was so as not to divulge the contact with this family whose business
                                and general character was so undesirable." Charles T. Baker. "The
                                Route and Ferriage Of The Lincolns" (tytewritten manuscript), –.
                                Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                    Kentucky
                                .
                  
                  
                     80 The boundary line between Kenturky and Indiana is the low water
                            mark of the Ohio River on the Indiana side. A ferry across the
                                Ohia River would infer that a road continued from the river on the
                            Indiana side.
               
                     be charged and this amount also applied to a footman. The said
                    ferry-keeper was required to keep a boat of sufficient bank. Traditions relate that eleven families,
                    in addition to the Lincoln party, constituted the waiting group, while others says that fifteen
                    families were waiting to cross the river. Sixty-one souls are said to have constituted the caravan,
                    and that two days were required to transport them to the Indiana side.81 While
                    the above traditions cannot be authenticated, it must be true that the river crossing did require
                    considerable time, and, if the 
                        Ohio
                     was at flood stage, it would have necessitated a prolonged delay. Likewise, such a
                    delay stopping ferry, traffic would have caused many people to congregate at the point to await
                    favorable ferrying conditions.
            All types of river craft are said to have been used for the ferriage of the Lincoln family to
                    Indiana. Log rafts have been mentioned by several as the mode of conveyance across the 
                        Ohio
                    , however, if early court records regarding the establishment of ferries are to be
                    followed, it is believed certain regulations were to be compiled with to legally operate a licensed
                    ferry. These requirements usually prescribed the kind and size of boat to be used, the number of
                    operators and the fare to be charged for persons, animals and vehicles. The ferry-keeper was also
                    required to give bond. An ancient document establishing a ferry in the year 1804, taken from the
                    files of the 
                        Hardin County
                     Court records, ordered that twenty-five cents was to be charged for the ferriage of man
                    and horse.82 For a horse only twelve and one-half cents was to 
                  
                     81"In conclusion. I wish to give you;in example of the manner
                            of collecting this tradition and to give the reason for Brorkett and Barrett using the word
                            ‘caravan'. In October, 1930. Mrs. W. T. Mastin, of Owenshoro. 
                                Ky.
                            , hearing of my research efforts. wrote me and asked for information concerning
                            a branch of her ancestral family that came into this county with the Lincolns, and remained
                            a short time and then moved to 
                                Missouri
                            . She claims to have read documentary evidence to substantiate the family
                            history. "L. D. Jones, a grandson of Ed Murphy who helped ferry the Lincolns,
                                was asked if other families (same with the Lincolns, and stated that several families
                                did and among them was the family of David Bristow, with six children. In answer to the
                                question. ‘Are descendants now in the county?' he replied. No. they
                                staid a short time and then went to 
                                    Missouri
                                .
                            "J. W. Ferguson. a grandson of John S. Lamar (born 1794, died Nov. 25, 1835,
                                hurieil at Old Pigeon. erne to Indiana in 1809) remembered hearing of others coming with
                                the Lincolns. and one family remained a short time and moved to 
                                    Missouri
                                .
                            "G. B. Enghof. a grandson of Betsy Ray Grinsby. also states he has heard his
                                grand-mother tell of other families coming with the Lincolns, and that one family soon
                                afterward moved to 
                                    Missouri
                                .
                            "In this tradition gathered I have eleven families of the caravann, besides the
                                Lincolns, spoken of by Mrs. Mastin, who states there were fifteen.
                            "In 1927, the L. D. Jones above mentioned said the Lincolnn camped two days at
                                the woodyard before continuing their journey to Padgett Hill, where
                                they built their ‘open face camp' and spent the first winter. It
                                required two days to ferry this caravan' of sixty-one people." Baker.
                                "The Route And Ferriage of The Lincolns." 3. Files of the Lincoln
                                Memorial Highway Commission of Kenturky.
                  
                  
                     82 The Solomon Brandenburg Ferry (
                        Brandenburg. Ky.
                     )
                            was established by an order of the 
                                Hardin County
                             Court of 
                        Hardin County. Kentucky
                     , on the 17th day of December,
                            1804. 
                                Hardin County
                             Court Records. November Term, 1804, 530.
               
                     size for the transporting of a wagon and four horses, and was
                    ordered to keep two able-bodied ferrymen to operate the boat. It is believed that the Thompson Ferry
                    was a legally operated, licensed enterprise and that its requirements and fares were similar to the 
                        Hardin County
                     regulations. Such were the conditions of ferryboat transportation in the year 1816 when
                    the Lincolns moved to Indiana.
            It must have been a dramatic scene when Thomas Lincoln's frightened horses pulled their
                    pioneer wagon upon the Thompson ferryboat. Before moving away from the bank, the horses were likely
                    uncoupled from the wagon to prevent an accident in case they might become unmanageable in midstream.
                    If several head of cattle were driven along, two trips may have been required to remove the Lincoln
                    family's worldly possessions to the opposite bank. It is to be supposed that Nancy Hanks
                    was apprehensive of the impending danger of this water passage, while Thomas Lincoln was busy
                    quieting his horses and promoting all necessary safety measures in effecting a safe crossing. Sarah
                    and Abraham must have enjoyed most of the trip to the fullest extent. It was with a sigh of relief
                    that the Indiana shore was reached, for then the most hazardous portion of the journey was
                        completed.83
            
            Upon arriving within the boundaries of Indiana, the Lincolns must have looked forward with fervent
                    interest to the culmination of their trip. Here all men were free, here land titles were secure,
                    here rapid development was to increase property values and here Thomas Lincoln had surely resolved
                    to build up a landed estate, approaching in size the large acreage of his father's former
                    holdings in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Certainly, the family must have wondered how rich their Indiana land would be, how its
                    topographical features would compare with their 
                        Kentucky
                     farms and where they would erect their future cabin home. This new country'
                    must have brought forth from every member of the family excited ejaculations as they drove over the
                    wagon trail which meant the last sixteen miles of their long journey.84
            
            
               
                  83 "During the interval of fourteen years from 1816. the time
                        when the Lincolns arrived in Indiana. and 1830, the date on which they left the state. the
                        commonwealth had grown from fifteen counties to fifty-eight counties. When the Lincolns arrived
                        In 1816 there were hut 63.000 people in Indiana. but, by the year 1830 when they left. there
                        were 341,582 inhabitants in the state. Hall, Lincoln Memorial Way Through
                        Indiana. 17. The Territory of Indiana was admitted to the Union on December 11, 1816.
               
                  84 Tarbell. In The Footsteps Of The Lincolns,
                    118.
            
            
            After leaving the Thompson ferryboat landing near 
                        Troy
                    , Thomas Lincoln traveled over what was then called the 
                  Vincennes-Troy
               
                    Road, which was one of the earliest trails used In approaching the old land office at 
                        Vincennes
                    . This trail is now known as the Santa Fe Road, and it is believed the Lincolns followed
                    this route from the mouth of Anderson Creek to a point near their 
                        Spencer
                     county farm. Today this route from 
                        Troy
                     would cross Anderson Creek over Highway 66, to a point where the old Santa Fe Trail
                    veers north and northwest. Following this road in a general northwesterly direction through Santa
                    Claus, the route converges on Highway 162 near the site of the Lincoln home, now called the Nancy
                    Hanks Lincoln State Park, at 
                        Lincoln City
                    , Indiana.85 Here ended the Lincoln migration of 1816, and marked as
                    well the beginning of an important and significant phase of the life of the sixteenth president of
                    the 
                        United States
                    .
            Considerable discussion has ensued concerning the number of days required to make the migration.
                    Numerous Lincoln biographers have stated that the overland trip required approximately one week to
                    reach the Lincolns' Indiana destination. One campaign biography of Lincoln of 1864 states
                    that seven days were required to complete the journey.86 Such conclusions are
                    not thought to be correct. As a crow flies, the Knob Creek home was located about seventy-five or
                    eighty miles south-east from the river town of 
                        Troy
                    , and the total mileage of their circuitous route of travel, from their home in 
                        Kentucky
                     to their destination in Indiana, is believed to be approximately one hundred
                    twenty-five miles.87 While it 
                  
                     85 Hall et al, Lincoln Memorial Way Through Indiana,
                            63. "They experienced some difficulty in making their way from this point (Santa
                                Claus) to the suarter section of land on which Thomas Lincoln intended to
                                settle." 
                                    Warren
                                . "The Environs of Lincoln's Youth." Abraham
                                Lincoln Association papers. 1933. 132.
                            "Two days. at the very least, it must have taken to reach the knoll which the
                                father had selected several weeks earlier; no road whatever existed, and only a trail,
                                Blazed out part of the way By a Man By the [name] of Jesse Hoskins, served to guide
                                them. The Balance of the way… Lincoln had to cut his way. writes Dennis
                                Hanks. So Thomas felled trees, cut underbrush and vines and made openings through which
                                the oxen could drag the sled or wagon forward. Over stumps and rocks, across gullies,
                                bogs, mounds and soggy ground. they crept onward and. finally, reached the spot
                                ‘Rite in the Brush,' where Abraham Lincoln was to spend the next
                                fourteen yearsquot;. Albert J. Beveridge, Abraham Lincoln, 1,
                                    180–658, 42.
                  
                  
                     86 "After a seven day's journey through an
                            uninhabited country. their testing place at night being a blanket spread upon the ground.
                            they arrived at the spot selected for their future residence…. " T. B.
                            Peterson, and Brothers, Life and Public Services of Abraham Lincoln, 26.
                  
                     87"In R straight line 
                                Troy
                             is about 75 miles to the northwest of the Knob Creek home." Tarbell.
                                In The Footsteps of Abraham Lincoln, 116. The approximate distances
                                between the various points on the migration itinerary: Knob Creek to Elizabethtown, 18
                                miles; Elizabethtown to Mill Creek, 12 miles; Mill Creek to Rig Spring. 12 miles: Big
                                Spring to Hardinsburg, 20 miles; Hardinsburg to Ohio River, 40
                                miles (not a direct route); Ohio River to the Lincoln Indiana Home,
                                16 miles.
                  
               
                     is true that under favorable traveling conditions the journey
                    could have been completed in seven days over the pioneer trails, nevertheless, stops are believed to
                    have been made at numerous points along the route, and it is to be supposed that they visited
                    several days with relatives in the course of their western travel. There is no indication of any
                    attempt on the part of Thomas Lincoln to reach Indiana within a limited number of days. It is
                    believed that the family proceeded leisurely along the way at a moderate rate of travel. That the
                    migration required approximately ten days to two weeks time with at least one week spent in actual
                    travel is a fair conclusion.
            As many western caravans penetrated into more remote sections of the old Northwest, it has been
                    confusing to some as to the reasons for the comparatively short migration made by the Lincolns in
                    their move from 
                        Kentucky
                     to Indiana. It must be remembered that until after 1816, few colonists went far beyond
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     into either Indiana or 
                        Illinois
                    . Thomas Lincoln's decision to move from, 
                        Kentucky
                     was a bold and decisive step, but the distance he traveled away from the disturbed
                    slave state was of little consequence. It has been suggested that Thomas Lincoln was influenced in
                    selecting the state of Indiana as a future home by Azel W. Dorsey. This pioneer was a 
                        Hardin county
                     farmer before moving to Indiana, and after residing in that state he became one of
                    Abraham Lincoln's schoolmasters. In the year 1811, while living in 
                        Kentucky
                    , Dorsey enlisted as a member of Captain Benjamin Shacklett's company of the
                    Third Regiment of the 
                        Kentucky
                     Detached Militia and engaged in the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . In the War of 1812 he was a member of Capt. Solomon 
                        Brandenburg
                    's company of the Third Regiment and he again traveled through the Indiana
                        territory.88 It is to be supposed that upon his returns to 
                        Kentucky
                     from these military expeditions, he related glowing accounts concerning the new 
                  
                     88 Shacklett's Company, War Department-Adjutant
                            General's Office Correspondence. April 30, 1931. 
                        
                                    Brandenburg
                                's Company. Roster of Volunteer Officers of 1812,
                                52 and 53. Capt. Solomon 
                                    Brandenburg
                                's Company of the Third Regiment, detached militia, in Library of 
                                    Kentucky State
                                 Historical Society of 
                           Frankfort. Kentucky
                        , and copy on file with the Filson Club of
                                        
                           Louisville. Kentucky
                        : General Samuel Hopkin's report
                                to the Governor of 
                                    Kentucky
                                 on file with the 
                                    Kentucky State
                                 Historical Society and quoted in the History of Indiana
                                by John B. Dillon.
                            The above information and references, pertaining to Azel W. Dorsey's military
                                expeditions. were taken from the Brief in Behalf of the Route From
                                    Elizabethtown to Big Spring and Thence to 
                                        Brandenburg
                                    . Crossing the Ohio River at That Place.
                                prepared by George L. Ridenour. Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                    Kentucky
                                .
                  
               
                     "Canaan". It is claimed that on both of his
                    military expeditions he crossed the Ohio river at the Brandenburg Ferry. Some
                    historians maintain that Thomas Lincoln, after being influenced by Dorsey to move to Indiana,
                    secured from him information as to the route which he had followed. While it may be true that
                    Lincoln was interested in the accounts of Indiana as related by Dorsey, there is no good reason why
                    he should go so far as to follow the same route of travel as his destination was in a different
                    direction.
            Thomas Lincoln's older brother, Josiah, migrated from 
                        Kentucky
                     to Indiana at an earlier date than the parents of the future president.89 He located in 
                        Harrison County
                    , and it is believed that his residence there undoubtedly influenced Thomas Lincoln to
                    migrate also. It is not believed, however, that Thomas Lincoln traveled through 
                        Harrison County
                    , on his removal, to visit his brother whose home was located northwest of Corydon.90 An interesting but erroneous tradition relates that when Thomas Lincoln was
                    moving to his new home in Indiana, one of his horses, due to the strenuous trip, "broke
                    down" and apparently was not able to continue farther on the journey. The horse became lame
                    while the Lincolns were at the home of Josiah, and it is stated that Thomas Lincoln traded his
                    fatigued horse to his brother for one in good condition. The tradition further relates that the
                    horse for which Josiah had swapped, turned out to be one of the best animals he had ever owned.91 By
                    referring to a map of 
                        Kentucky
                     and Indiana, one must immediately conclude that Thomas Lincoln would not have traveled
                    so far out of his way in winter weather to visit his brother and family, as his destination was in a
                    northwesterly direction. Such a circuitous route to their 
                        Perry county
                     land would have considerably increased the total mileage of the migration.
            When the Lincolns located their new home in Indiana, they could have been influenced in moving to
                    Perry, now 
                  
                     89 William E. Barton. The Lineage of Lincoln, 79.
                  
                     90 In 1804, a petition was filed in the 
                                Hardin County
                             Court, asking for the establishment of a road from Elizabethtown to the
                                Ohio River. This petition was signed by a number of 
                                Hardin County
                             citizens, including Thomas Lincoln. Among other signers was Ignatius Able, who
                            afterwards became a resident of 
                                Harrison County
                            , Indiana. As a result of the establishment of this road and because of the
                            removal of Ignatius Able to 
                                Harrison County
                            . it is believed by some that Thomas Lincoln traveled this newly established
                            road to 
                                Harrison County
                             enroute to his 
                                Perry County
                             farm. The Corydon Indiana Lincoln Highway Association, A Brief
                                    on the Route of Thomas Lincoln Through Indiana to 
                                        Lincoln City
                                    
                        , 2. Files of the Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                    Kentucky
                                .
                  
                  
                     91 Affidavit of Jacob L. Summers, May 14, 1831. Files of the Lincoln
                            Memorial Highway Commission of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  
                  THE INDIANA LINCOLN CABIN (NOT EXTANT)
                  The water-colored, lithographed drawing was made by John H. Rowbottom, and the photograph was
                            made from the drawing. Mr. Rowbottom, an artist, was employed by Moore, Wilstach &
                            Baldwin of 
                                Cincinnati
                            , publishers of Joseph H. Barrett's Life of Lincoln,
                            to prepare the drawing for that work. Mr. Rowbottom visited the scenes of Lincoln's
                            childhood in 1865, and was, in reality, the first man to penetrate the Lincoln areas of 
                                Kentucky
                             and Indiana in search of Lincoln material. Mr. Rowbottom's drawing of
                            the Indiana cabin of the Lincoln family is undoubtedly a picture of the real home of the
                            Lincolns. See Jesse W. Weik, The Real Lincoln, 19; Joseph H. Barrett, Life of Lincoln, 40 (opposite page).
                  Courtesy of Lincoln National Life Foundation, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
               
                    
                    
                        Spencer, County
                     (established in 1818) by Austin Lincoln a relative and friend of the
                    President's father.92 The farm of Austin Lincoln was located about
                    twelve miles from Thomas Lincoln's Indiana tract, and while making the journey from 
                        Kentucky
                     to Indiana in 1816, they passed Austin Lincoln's homestead, en
                        route to their new home site on Little Pigeon Creek.93 Austin Lincoln
                    was a son of Hananiah Lincoln, with whom Thomas Lincoln had lived for some time in 
                        Kentucky
                    , in Hardin and 
                        Cumberland
                     counties. Austin Lincoln was in 
                        Perry County
                    , Indiana, as early as June, 1815, more than a year before Thomas Lincoln arrived, and
                    he entered his land claim in the 
                        Vincennes
                     Land Office on December 16, 1816, for his 
                        Perry county
                     farm. About the year 1820, Davis Lincoln, a brother of Austin Lincoln, migrated from 
                        Kentucky
                     to 
                        Perry county
                    , Indiana, and it is believed that several sisters accompanied him to his new home.
                    Members of the 
                        Boone
                     family some of whom, it seems, had intermarried with the Lincolns, also migrated to
                    Indiana at an earlier date. In this new community in Indiana, therefore, Thomas Lincoln found
                    Relatives and friends already established in their homes.94
            
            In the Indiana cabin on Little Pigeon Creek, Abraham Lincoln spent fourteen formative years. During
                    this period he experienced happiness, tragedy and hardship but Indiana educated, trained and
                    nurtured his superior intellect, and when he migrated to 
                        Illinois
                     in the year 1830, he was prepared to move on to outstanding achievement, eventually
                    leading to non-paralleled statesmanship.95
            
            
               
                  92 "It is my opinion that Austin Lincoln was largely responsible
                        for the coming of Thomas to Indiana and for his choice of the particular tract of land which he
                        occupied." Louis A. Warren, "Hananiah Lincoln in Revolution and Pioneer
                        History." Indiana Magazine of History (March, 1929), XXV. 37.
               
                  93 Hall, The Lincoln Memorial Way Through Indiana, 28.
               
                  94"They were joined in the fall of 1817 by three relatives from 
                            Kentucky
                        , Thomas and Betsy Sparrow. and with them a cousin of Nancy, Dennis Hanks by name, a
                        boy about ten years older than Abraham." Tarbell, In the Footsteps of the
                            Lincolns, 123.
               
                  95 For information regarding the 1830 migration of the Lincoln family from
                        Indiana to 
                            Illinois
                        , see the published report of the Lincoln Memorial Highway Commission of Indiana,
                            The Lincoln Memorial Way Through Indiana, already cited in this paper.
                            "The caravan which moved from Indiana to 
                                Illinois
                             in the year 1830. although it included Abraham Lincoln, was largely a migration
                            of the Johnstons. Of the thirteen members of the party but two of them were Lincolns Abraham
                            and his father. The others consisted of Sarah Johnston Lincoln, her three children, her five
                            grandchildren and her two sons-in-law." The members were: 
                        Thomas Lincoln, age 54
                        Sarah Johnson Lincoln, age 42
                        Abraham Lincoln, age 21
                        John D. Johnston, age 15
                        Dennis F. Hanks age 31
                        Elizabeth Johnston Hanks, age 23
                        John Hanks, age 8
                        Sarah Hanks, age 7
                        Nancy Hanks, age 5
                        Harriet Hanks, age 4
                     
                  
                    
            
            
            A story concerning the events and route of travel of an obscure journey made by humble participants
                    one hundred and twenty-one years ago must necessarily be based on fact and tradition. Exhaustive
                    studies concerning the Lincoln family have developed a few essential facts upon which a story, of
                    the Lincoln migration of 1816 can be based. Local traditions have been relied upon for additional
                    information. It has been said that tradition is subject to all the infirmities of memory and
                    misunderstanding, and no doubt many of the hundreds of, affidavits that are on file, and the
                    numerous oral accounts that are today current concerning the westward movement of the Lincoln family
                    are erroneous and unreliable. Nevertheless, in a community which abounds in 
                        Lincoln
                     lore and tradition, as does the 
                        Kentucky
                        Lincoln country
                    , such legendary recitals must be recognized and accepted in part. In preparing this
                    article the author has studied hundreds of original stories and affidavits that have been collected
                    in regard to the route of travel of the Lincoln family to Indiana. In regard to some roads and some
                    localities, the events of the journey are historically correct and authentic, while on other
                    sections of the route the accounts of the travelers are vague and fragmentary. It would be an
                    impossible task to define the complete route traveled by the Lincoln family from Knob Creek to
                    Little Pigeon Creek, however, from available facts, the principal points of their itinerary, and the
                    important events of their journey are now recorded and are a part of accepted Lincolniana.
            
               
                        
                            
                        Sauire Hall, age—
                        Matilda Johnston Hall, age 19.
                        John Hall, age 2.
                     
                        
                        
                     Lincoln Lore. No. 7, May 27, 1929.
                    
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Food Administration Papers
            WILLIAM J. VAN SCHREEVEN
            
            Indiana's historical sources for the Civil War period have been richly augmented by the
                    discovery of some long lost records found during the recent Survey of Federal Archives.1 As these documents make possible a new approach to the role played by Indiana
                    in the Civil War, so too, the now available records of the Food Administration can be used as the
                    basis of new studies of the part taken by the state in the World War. These papers have been stored
                    in various places in 
                        Washington
                     since the close of the war, and have been largely inaccessible to researchers. Since
                    the transfer of these papers to the National Archives, it is now possible for historians and other
                    accredited researchers to avail themselves of this rich World War source collection. It is the
                    purpose of this paper to describe so much of the records as pertain to Indiana.
            The 
                        United States
                     Food Administration was established by Congress to meet the difficulties which the war
                    brought upon food production and distribution. President Woodrow Wilson selected as Federal Food
                    Administrator Herbert Hoover, who, under the broad powers granted by Congress, organized and
                    administered control over food in the 
                        United States
                    .2 In a country so extensive as the 
                        United States
                     it was found necessary to decentralize this task by the appointment of a Federal Food
                    Administrator in each state.3 Indiana was particularly fortunate in having a man
                    trained by education and experience to direct this work. Dr. H. E. Barnard, at the time of his
                    appointment as Federal Food Administrator for Indiana, was State Food and Drug Commissioner and
                    State Commissioner of Weights and Measures—offices he had held in Indiana for a number of
                    years. Prior to this, Dr. 
                  
                     1 Harvey Wish, "New Indiana Archival Documents," Indiana Magazine of History (September, 1936). XXXII, 36–69.
                  
                     2 Unfortunately no general history of the 
                                United States
                             Food Administration has yet been written. The value of the papers was early
                            realized. for on December 27, 1917. Everett S. Brown presented before the Eighth Annual
                            Conference of Archivists. In 
                                Philadelphia
                             a paper entitled "Archives of the Food Administration as Historical
                            Sources This address appears in the American Historical Association Annual
                                Report. 1917. 12–36. A further elaboration of the papers as they
                            appeared before the transfer to The National Archives is given in Waldo G. Leland and Newton
                            D. Mere-ness, Introduction to the American Official Sources for the Economic
                                and Social History of the World War (
                                New Haven
                            , 1926). General accounts of food control in various foreign countries during
                            the World War will be found in the monumental Economic and Social Higtory of
                                the World War (Carnegie Endowment for International Peace), edited by Jamea T.
                            Shotwell.
                  
                     3 Alaska. 
                        District of
                                Columbia, Hawaii
                      and Porto
                            Rico also had Federal Food Administrators.
               
                     Barnard had been the chemist for the 
                        New Hampshire
                     Board of Health and a Food and Drug Inspector Chemist of the 
                        United States
                     Department of Agriculture. As Federal Food Administrator he appointed a staff of
                    skilled volunteers4 to assist him in directing the food program in every county,
                    city, town, and village in Indiana. The records accumulated from their activities during the years
                    191–919 constitute the Food Administration papers for the state of Indiana.
            Before describing these papers, it may be well to suggest that there exists among the records of the 
                        Washington
                     office much other material of importance for a study of Indiana dying the World War.
                    Especially interesting are the papers of the States Administration Division.5
                    This division interpreted the rules and regulations of other divisions for the various states, and
                    was the general representative of the slates in 
                        Washington
                    . In the files of Home Conservation Divisions6, the Education
                        Division7, and the School and College Division8, there
                    is a wealth of information pertaining to publicity and propaganda as it was directed from the 
                        Washington
                     office to the states. Then, too, the License Division9 has a
                    complete list of all licensees in Indiana together with many reports made by them. Only the
                    divisions of the 
                        Washington
                     office offering the most obvious possibilities have been mentioned, but an examination
                    of the remaining divisions will amply reward the investigator interested in Indiana's part
                    in the great war.
            The importance of saving the documents of the World War was realized by historians even while the war
                    was still raging. Many states had special commissions for the preservation of such material.
                    Professor John W, Oliver, Director of the War History Records of the Indiana Historical Commission,
                    made every effort toward the preservation and compilation of World War records, and an appropriation
                    of $20,000 was obtained to prepare a war history of the state.10
                    Efforts 
                  
                     4 Most of the workers were volunteers or "dollar a year
                            men." A few clerks and stenographers were paid. In September, 1918, the Indiana
                            organization had 867 workers of whom 73 were paid employees. See The National Archives, FA
                            6H-A9 for a partial list of the Indiana personnel.
                  
                     5 The National Archives, FA 6H.
                  
                     6 The National Archives. FA 5H.
                  
                     7 The National Archives, FA 12H.
                  
                     8 The National Archives, FA 84H
                  
                     9 The National Archives, FA 37H.
                  
                     10 "American Historical Activities During the World
                            War." American Historical Association Annual Report, 1919, I,
                            13–96. The section on Indiana is by John W. Oliver. The Indiana Historical
                            Commission published the bulletin. Suggesttons for 
                  
               
                     were made by the commission to acquire the papers of the Food
                    Administration in Indiana but they were sent to 
                        Washington
                     as were those of the other states.11 The Indiana records were
                    shipped to 
                        Washington
                     during March, 1919,12 and comprise some eighty-five out of the
                    approximate total of 22,000 linear feet of the records of the 
                        United States
                     Food Administration.13 Since the settlement of outstanding claims
                    was practically the only use to which the documents were put, they were left in the original
                    containers and boxes in which they were shipped.14
            
            Now that these records of the stirring war days are being made more easily available, the careful
                    student is able to reconstruct the life of the people of Indiana during 191–918. The
                    papers, offering the best approach to a study of Indiana during war-time, will be found in the
                    extensive general correspondence file.15 Here are letters from citizens in all
                    walks of life. Some of the correspondence is highly illiterate and flavored with downright
                    expressions of the soil; other letters are concise, clear, and literary. Most of them offer some
                    suggestion of the influence and effect of the war on the people of Indiana; and in this lies the
                    value and importance of the records. The social historian can generalize and interpret much more
                    correctly after studying such a mass of correspondence than if he relies on newspapers and other
                    printed accounts.
            The exchange of letters and telegrams between Dr. H. E. Barnard and the County Food Administrators16 reveals the manner in which food control spread to the counties, and shows in
                    detail how the work penetrated into every Indiana 
                  
                     Collecting and Preserving Material for Indiana War History, War History
                                Bulletin. No. 1 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1919). A survey of the work of preserving World War material is made by F. F.
                            Holbrook "The Collection of State War Records," American
                                Historical Review (1919). XXV, 7–8. Several volumes on
                            Indiana's part during the World War resulted from the activities of the Indiana
                            Historical Commission. Among them may he mentioned, George Streiby Cottman, 
                        
                                    Jefferson County
                                 in the World War (
                                Madison
                            , 1920). and Walter Sidney Greenough, The War Purse of Indiana
                                AIndianapolis, 1922).
                  
                     11 The National Archives, FA 6H-A9.
                  
                            12
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     13
                            The Second Annual Report of the Archivist of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , (
                                Washington
                            , 1936), 13.
                  
                     14 The National Archives, FA 6H-A9, given some of the requests for
                            information from the Indiana papers. Professor Ivan L. Pollock examined the records sent
                                from the state of 
                                    Iowa
                                 for his book, The Food Administration in 
                                        Iowa
                                    
                        , in the 
                           
                                        Iowa
                                     Chronicles of the World War, 2 vols., edited by Benjamin F.
                                Shambaugh (State Historical Society of 
                           Iowa. Iowa City
                        ,
                            1928).
                  
                  
                     15 The National Archives. FA 116A-A1 and FA 115A-A2.
                  
                     16 The work was further decentralized by the appointment of County
                            Food Administrators in each county.
               
                     home.17 The extensive records kept by
                    Stanley Wyckoff as Food Administrator for 
                        Marion County
                     offer a splendid source for the study of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and its environs during wartime.18 The more specialized files deal
                    with activities of the merchant representatives,19 conservation and regulation
                    of ice,20 and the work of the retail price reporters.21 The
                    valuable correspondence file pertaining to the hearings held for violations of various rules
                    contains some of the most interesting and important letters relative to food control in Indiana.22 As has been indicated, broad powers were granted by Congress under the Food
                    Control Act of August 10, 1917. To make this act effective an Enforcement Division was organized in
                    the 
                        Washington
                     office.23 The work of enforcement in each state was handled by the
                    Federal Food Administration or his assistants with the advice and assistance of the 
                        Washington
                     office as needed. Violators of the Food Administration rules—and the number
                    was surprisingly small—were at first admonished either by the Federal Food Administrator
                    or the County Administrator. Hearings were given the alleged violators, and, when found guilty, the
                    offenders were punished by administrative action. The penalties for continued infractions generally
                    were: contributions to a war charity, suspension of business, or complete revocation of the
                    offender's license. Through these quasi-judicial hearings were settled practically all the
                    cases without recourse to the regularly constituted courts of law, for as will be shown, the
                    enforcement of the rules was largely left to the court of public opinion.
            One group of infractions had to do with the insufficient use of wheat substitutes. The war created an
                    overwhelming demand for wheat. Since a great portion of the French and Belgian crops had been
                    destroyed, and since the hazard of submarine warfare and a lack of ships made importation from 
                        New Zealand
                     and 
                        Australia
                     impossible, the Allies had to depend largely upon America for the grain. To supply this
                        
                  
                     17 The National Archives, FA 115A-A3 and FA 115A-A4.
                  
                     18 The National Archives, FA 115A-A6.
                  
                     19 Merchant Representatives were organized by Meyer Heller, primarily
                            to disseminate publicity via the merchants. The correspondence may be
                            consulted in The National Archives. FA 115A-A5.
                  
                     20 The National Archives, FA 115A-A9. It will be noted that during the
                            time of war not even the smallest item of human endeavor is unaffected.
                  
                     21 The National Archives, FA 115A-All. An effort was made to thwart
                            profiteering by a check on retail prices.
                  
                     22 The National Archives, FA 115A-A8.
                  
                     23 See The National Archives, FA 44H, for the files of the Enforcement
                            Division.
               
                     need a strict program of conservation was necessary in the 
                        United States
                    . Indiana cooperated to the fullest extent with this program, both in increasing
                    production and in saving the precious wheat. This grain was the most easily shipped; hence
                    substitutes such as corn, oats, and rice were used on a 5–0 basis with wheat flour.
                    Bakers were rigorously held to this rule, and those who refused to obey or attempted evasion were at
                    once admonished or punished according to the facts brought out in the hearings.24 From the papers one can not only obtain a picture of how the Food Administration was
                    regarded, but one can also see an interesting example of the work of a quasi-judicial establishment
                    in enforcing its rules.
            A fertile field for the economic and statistical investigator will be found in the records of the
                    baking division. The material largely consists of reports made by the bakers. These reports give
                    facts and figures as to the amount of flour and other ingredients used; the kind and amount of goods
                    baked; and other data that are of considerable interest to the intensive investigator.25
            
            A threatend sugar famine made necessary a system of control which really amounted to rationing. Sugar
                    certificates good for stated amounts of the commodity were issued to manufacturers, public eating
                    places, bakers, and retailers on the basis of statements made by them as to their requirements.26 In the records pertaining to these transactions the investigator will find a
                    wealth of economic and statistical information. For example, it is possible to ascertain the amount
                    of sugar used in any town or county in Indiana for certain quarters of the years 191–8.
                    Perhaps such research may seem trifling, but it must be remembered that only on such minute
                    investigations can any sort of a sane generalization be made.
            In all the work of the Food Administration the task was accomplished by the coöperative
                    efforts of all citizens who came to believe the slogan, "Food Will Win the War."
                    Mention has been made of the fact that no great amount of enforcement was necessary because the
                    court of public opinion 
                  
                     24 The National Archives. FA 115B-A2. This file gives the
                            correspondence pertaining to the control and enforcement of the rules affecting bakers.
                  
                     25 The National Archives. FA 115B. In this group are classified papers
                            of the Baking Division.
                  
                     26 Consult The, National Archives, FA 115C. for the papers of the
                            Sugar Division of the Food Administration of Indiana.
               
                     decided against the opponents of the Food Administration. The
                    people were carefully mobilized and educated through a widespread campaign of publicity and
                    propaganda emanating from the 
                        Washington
                     office.27 An education or publicity director was appointed in each
                    of the states; and Indiana was fortunate in having Don Herold to assume charge of this work. His
                    career as author and artist had already begun, and since the close of the war he has firmly
                    established himself as a leading American humorist and playwright. Seemingly his stock of new ideas
                    to advance the popularity of the Food Administration was inexhaustible. A student of the power of
                    publicity and propaganda during wartime will find much in the records of the Indiana Food
                        Administration.28
            
            Practically every known source of publicity was exploited. Street-car card campaigns, motion
                    pictures, billboard campaigns, newspapers, pamphlets, rallies, and speeches were employed to spread
                    the message of conservation. Pledge cards were distributed by the tens of thousands and stickers by
                    the tens of millions—these stickers being sold by Indiana to the administrations of other
                    states. The organization of Food Clubs provided an outlet for the message of conservation in every
                    community. The careful explanation of the aims of the Food Administration brought constant response
                    from the American people. The Indiana papers indicate that the people willingly followed the
                    "meatless" and "wheatless" days, and strove valiantly to win the
                    war through the saving of food.
            This brief summary of the records of the Food Administration now deposited in the National Archives
                    indicates that a rich field is offered for study and research. It is impossible to write a complete
                    account of Indiana's part in the World War without taking cognizance of the work of the
                    Food Administration, for, with the mobilization of entire populations for war, all citizens were
                    aware—and the farming sections doubly so—that the battlefield of war was as
                    far away as the wheat or the corn field.
            
               
                  27 No account has yet been written of the wartime publicity and propaganda
                        of the Food Administration. A very complete body of documents may be consulted in The National
                        Archives. FA 12H.
               
                  28 The main portion of correspondence on publicity matters will be found
                        in the general correspondence file of the Food Administration of Indiana, The National Archives,
                        FA 116A-A1 and FA 115A-A2. Material will be found on publicity matters in many of the other
                        files of Indiana
            
         
         
         
            The Old Printing Office in 
                        New Harmony
                    
            
            THOMAS W. RECORDS
            
            In October of 1932, Harry T. Slater locked the forms and printed the final number of the 
                        New Harmony
                     Register, which his father, Charles W. Slater, founded in 1867. Father or son printed
                    the paper each week for sixty-five years. Some time after the demise of the Register, Mr. Slater
                    delivered the office key to Miss Mary E. Fauntleroy, who owns the building in which the paper was so
                    long published, the only stipulation, or rather request, being that the press remain in the room
                    just as it had been standing for many years. It was made known that, before he retired, the editor
                    had been visited by an agent of Henry Ford. The agent told him that the manufacturer of cars would
                    probably buy the plant, but with the understanding that Slater should go to 
                        Dearborn
                     and superintend the setting up of the press and office so that it would be a true
                    duplication of the old plant of the Register. Whatever the terms of the offer,
                    they were not accepted.
            Upon investigation, one finds that this office stands in an unusual position as it is not only intact
                    and where it was in constant use for over three score years, but it is the last office in Indiana,
                    and, so far as known, the very last office in the 
                        United States
                    , in which the 
                        Washington
                     Press was the only means of printing a regular weekly newspaper. The 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Register was established by Charles W. Slater after his return from service in the
                    Union Army during the Civil War. He had previously started the publication of a weekly paper called
                    the Advertiser which he established in 1858 with Albert Norcross as his assistant.
                    Norcross joined the Union army and later, when Slater enlisted, the publication was suspended.
                    Norcross lost his life at 
                        Nashville
                    , but Slater lived through the war and was mustered out in 1865. In time he resumed the
                    business he had left, but, after a time, gave his paper a new name, calling it the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Register, under which title it ran until his son, Harry T. Slater discontinued
                    publication in 1932.
            Charles W. Slater was born in 
                        London
                     in 1826, the year the Philanthropist ("Boat Load of
                    Knowledge") landed at 
                        New Harmony
                    . When only a small boy he shipped as cabin-boy with a vessel on which his brother was
                    mate. He made several voyages to the West Indian Islands and to South  America, but in his late ‘teens he gave up the sea, landed
                    at 
                        Galveston
                     and settled at 
                        Victoria
                    , an inland town about a hundred miles west of Galveston. At that time, 
                        Texas
                     was an independent country and was offering free land to settlers who would agree to
                    certain conditions. Young Slater took up a section and joined with neighbors to fight Indians from
                    time to time. On account of illness, he soon gave up his ranch, went to 
                        New Orleans
                     and then to 
                        St. Louis
                    . Here he obtained employment in a bakery and also joined a theatrical troupe. The
                    players went on the road and his tours finally brought him to 
                        New Harmony
                    . Slater became so much in love with the place that he remained. In 1848, he obtained
                    employment in the printing office of James Bennett. He learned to set type under that veteran
                    printer, who, as a boy, had learned the printing trade in the school set up by the Owens and William
                    Maclure.
            Slater later engaged in other activities, but the newspaper work appealed to him and he went to 
                        Cincinnati
                     to work on, the Commercial. He crossed the River to
                            
                  Newport, Kentucky
               , where he worked on the 
                        Newport
                    
                    News for a while. Then he went to 
                        Louisville
                     to work on the Variety. He returned to 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1851 and married Mary A. Beal. Returning to 
                        Louisville
                     with his bride, Slater was employed in the bindery department of Hull's Job
                    Printing Office. From 
                        Louisville
                     he went to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to work at job printing, then to 
                        Evansville
                     to work on the Enquirer until it was discontinued. He next returned
                    to 
                        New Harmony
                     and established again his newspaper, the Advertiser.
            The office was opened (assembled might be a more appropriate word) on the second floor of Rappite
                    Dormitory No. 2. Here the Register, successor to the Advertiser,
                    was also published from 1867 to 1875, when the press was moved to a larger and more convenient room
                    on the third floor where it is today. The old Dormitory is worthy of a short description as the
                    printing office fits into it so perfectly. It was built in 1822, and is not only the largest and
                    most pretentious community building constructed by the Rappites but is the best preserved in
                    original plan and condition.
            The building, which was used principally as a dormitory for men, is seventy by ninety feet with three
                    stories and a very large attic. It is built of brick that were made on the grounds. The massive
                    stones of the foundation were quarried  in the nearby hills and
                    the fine timbers used in the framework and to support the heavy roof were cut from the virgin
                    forests in and near 
                        New Harmony
                    . Three large chimneys were built, one at the north end, one at the south end, and the
                    other near the center of the building. These permitted the location of large fireplaces on each
                    floor. An old barbecue pit, on the first floor at the east side of the central chimney, is just as
                    it was in the day of Father Rapp. This building is one of those selected by the federal Government
                    as worthy to be preserved, and architects sent for that purpose reconstructed the plans of the
                    building to the smallest detail.
            Since the Rappites sold the town to Robert Owen, Old No. 2 has served the community in many
                    capacities, and has seen a varied and sometimes tempestuous life. It has served as a hotel, as an
                    apartment house, with several prominent families making it their home at various times, and as a
                    post. office. Fraternal organizations have used it, and offices of lawyers and doctors have been
                    located in it. Merchandizing enterprises both retail and wholesale have occupied it. During the Owen
                    regime, it was in this building that Joseph Neff established his Pestalozzian school. It served as
                    laboratory or workshop for some of the scientists who made their homes in 
                        New Harmony
                    , and also as a place for their meetings and their schools. In this building, meetings
                    were held by the light of artificial gas, manufactured in the building, whereas, not many miles away
                    in 
                        Spencer County
                    , Abraham Lincoln was reading by the light from a fireplace.
            Of particular interest was the School of Printing which was established in 1826. In this School, one
                    of the most apt pupils was James Bennett who remained in 
                        New Harmony
                    , and, in 1848, taught young Charles W. Slater to set type. He later taught the business
                    to his son Harry T. Slater, and then, in the turn of fate, James Bennett set his own last stick of
                    type in Slater's office. With this succession went many of the old instruments and
                    equipment with which the Register office was set up. Here it is appropriate to
                    tell that, when the Industrial Arts Magazine, a few years ago, investigated the
                    history of printing as a school subject and began to search for the earliest use of printing as part
                    of the course of instruction they quite naturally looked to the older cities and especially to 
                        Philadelphia
                    , the home of Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    . They were surprised to discover that in none of those places,  but in 
                        New Harmony
                    , a small town in Southern Indiana, was the first school for printing and that tuition
                    in that school was free. The teacher was Cornelius Tiebout, a practical printer and engraver, who
                    was among those active in the work of printing. The Entomology and Conchology of Thomas Say, the eminent scientist, were printed and bound in the school
                    printing office and the illustrations as well were all made there.
            After the deaths of Tiebout and Say, the work of printing was carried on as a school subject and one
                    of the teachers wrote to William Maclure, who was in 
                        Mexico
                    , that the boys learned "to set type very quickly…. The plates to
                    Sylvia are to be colored by our scholars…. " The boys in the school printed the
                        Disseminator, one of the earliest and best known papers published in southern
                    Indiana. Another man who was connected with printing in 
                        New Harmony
                     from the first was Josiah Warren who invented the first rotary printing press. The
                    tradition is that 
                        Warren
                     presented his invention to a convention of printers, and since they were strongly
                    opposed to the idea, he destroyed his first model on his return to 
                        New Harmony
                    . However, it is claimed that a man, who heard 
                        Warren
                    's description, made a similar press and had it patented.
            In the Old Printing Office in 
                        New Harmony
                    , the central figure is a 
                        Washington
                     Press. It is a six-column, two-page press and is said to have been assembled in the
                    office where it now stands, having been made of two smaller presses which had been used for a number
                    of years and on which the Western Atlas and the Gleaner had been
                    printed. These papers, which preceded the Advertiser, were published by James
                    Bennett. Among other articles of almost equal age and interest are an editor's desk and
                    chair which are over eighty-five years old. The desk is hand-made and pigeonholed. It was made for
                    Bennett. There is a card press more than fifty-five years old and three wrought-iron cases made by
                    John Echolls, 
                        New Harmony
                     blacksmith, in 1858. There are two type-cases made by Josiah Warren after his own
                    design, the type receptacles being round instead of square as are those of the present day. There is
                    a beautiful hand-carved, hand-wrought metal clamp used to hold papers. This clamp represents a shock
                    of wheat the heads clearly showing the plump grains outlined in the brass. Harry T. Slater recalls
                         that as a boy he used to shine this clamp frequently with
                    metal polish just for the enjoyment of bringing out its unusual beauty. Still standing intact is an
                    old wood-stove formerly used in heating the printing office. Besides the oval firebox it carries a
                    cylindrical box-like arrangement set in the pipe a few feet above the stove in such manner as to
                    afford additional heat.
            There is a six-font wood-type and a one-font wood-type all made by hand some time prior to 1850,
                    probably nearly all made by Josiah Warren. The two imposing stones, each three feet and three inches
                    by six feet and six inches, were made and used as grave stones—having been laid flat to
                    cover the graves. These stones became available when the bodies were re-interred and suitable
                    markers placed over their graves some time in the early ‘forties. These stones having
                    been used with the smooth side up, the inscriptions on them were forgotten. Recently, when preparing
                    the Old Printing Office for public inspection, readers can imagine the astonishment when it was
                    discovered that one of these stones had covered the grave of Thomas Say while the other had been
                    placed over the adjacent graves of two sisters of William Maclure.
            There is newspaper body-type in the Office which was in constant use for seventy-three years; one
                    case of agate and non-pareil; one case of brevier with italics; a case of long primer and italics.
                    The case-stands were all made in 
                        New Harmony
                    . In the office there are about fifty kinds of display and fancy types, all kinds of
                    letter faces and sizes, an accumulation of more than seventy-five years. There are many old
                    electrotypes and various other pieces of equipment used in printing in the early days.
            Besides the items mentioned, there are complete files of the Advertiser and Register since 1858. Twenty six of these volumes are bound. They afford a
                    continuous record of 
                        New Harmony
                     for more than three-score years. Within the pigeonholes of the old Bennett desk were
                    found many old and interesting pamphlets, papers, and books. One of these is a copy of the Indiana Pocket Manual printed in 1845; another a copy of the Shipmaster's Assistant printed in 1801, which was once the property of Gad Peck,
                    captain of a privateer. This was brought to 
                        New Harmony
                     by the widow of Captain Peck and found its way in some manner to the newspaper  office. Upon retiring five years ago, Mr. Slater reserved this
                    book and took it to his home. Among some equipment acquired more recently, were plates for printing
                    music composed by the late Peter Lichtenburger of 
                        New Harmony
                    .
            In the early days of the Register, as well as that of its predecessors, it was
                    necessary to fill the entire paper by hand as there were no "patent" insides nor
                    plates of advertising as there is today. Incidents are related of almost an entire edition of some
                    of the old papers being reprinted the following week either because the "help" was
                    indisposed or because there just wasn't enough to fill a new issue. It is said that some of
                    the old time type-setters were unbelievably fast workmen and that a surprisingly large number of
                    "sticks" could be set up by one person in a given time.
            At the time Albert Norcross enlisted in the Union army the following item appeared in the Advertiser: 
                        Our assistant having suddenly determined to enlist in the army and due to events now
                            transpiring which may lead to the enlistment of many others, we are compelled to suspend
                            publication of the ADVERTISER. The suspension is only temporary and we are determined to
                            commence its publication as soon as the necessary arrangements can be made. The few who have
                            paid their subscriptions in advance for the fourth volume, can, if they desire it, have
                            their money returned to them, and for this purpose we call upon all those indebted to us to
                            make immediate payment. If this call is not attended to the accounts will be placed in the
                            proper hands for settlement.
                    
            
            Charles W. Slater soon followed his assistant into the service, enlisting in Col. Richard
                    Owen's regiment, the Sixtieth Indiana Volunteers. He served until mustered out in 1865.
                    Taking up his work as publisher of a weekly newspaper, he continued until 1894, when he laid down
                    his last stick of type and wrote finis to a romantic life. His son, Harry T.
                    Slater, took up the work and carried on with few changes either in equipment or methods until
                    advancing age admonished him that he could not put out the Register much longer without assistance.
                    Nevertheless, when the second Slater decided to retire he did not "unlock the last form and
                    throw in the last type" but, with an unusual sense of the value of his plant, he left the
                    last form just as it was used in printing the last number of the paper so that future generations
                    may see the plant just as it was when in operation. Two years later, the retired printer returned to
                    the Old Printing Office, set-up in type, and ran off several copies of a poem  which his life long friend, Ann Ford had requested. This he also left
                    set-up just as it was when he printed the poem in 1934.1
            
            
               
                  1 Harry T. Slater is still living in 
                            New Harmony
                        . He is hale and well preserved. He lets his white, curly hair grow long every
                        winter, and is an interesting and unusual character. He was never married. His father Charles W.
                        Slater, died in 1894. The author, who lives in 
                            New Harmony
                        , has had excellent opportunities to study the Old Printing Office. He known the old
                        printer, Harry T. Slater well, and talked freely with him while this paper was being prepared.
                        Mr. Slater also read the manuscript. Many citizens of 
                            New Harmony
                         have never been in the Old Printing Office, and many have never been able to engage
                        in conversations with the retired editor, who is a taciturn man.
            
         
         
         
            Edward Eggleston
            EFFA MORRISON DANNER
            
            Edward Eggleston still lives and having survived the test of time, needs no eulogy in this, his
                    centenial year.1 As minister, editor, and author he climbed to fame over
                    vicissitudes which would have appalled a less alert and determined man. From the earliest pioneer
                    days, poets and story tellers of Indiana have woven their experiences into homespun tales, but
                    Edward Eggleston was the first to catch the spirit of the spoken dialect of the people and
                    crystalize it on the printed page. He did not then recognize that his works would become classics in
                    literature.
            He was a true writer of prefaces, for there he portrayed to his reader the urge of his creative idea
                    in brief sentences, although he may have spent years in collecting the information.2 The chronicles of Eggleston's early activities, which are rather obscure and widely
                    scattered, and those of his family, particularly those connected with his boyhood, are still
                    interesting to students of literature. He was born on December 10, 1837, in a Main Street house of 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana, His father, Joseph C. Eggleston, bought this house the year before his
                    son's birth of Edward Patton while it was under construction and finished it himself. The
                    house was then located in a square plot of ground planted to fruit trees and grape vines. The
                    building, which still stands, is of colonial style, a two-story brick house with shutters and a
                    little portico at the side. The Eggleston law office was a small brick building on the grounds a
                    little way from the home.
            Edward was a delicate child, afflicted from infancy with asthma, or a similar disease, which
                    compelled him to give up active sports. He was a boy of the fireside who helped his mother with her
                    household duties, knitted and embroidered book-marks, and later devoted most of his time to study
                    under her instruction.
            The constant return of the terrorizing paroxysms of his disease, usually at night in the
                    candle-lighted room, the death of his grandmother Craig at their home in 
                        Vevay
                     in 1840, the 
                  
                     1 Edward Eggleaton was born in 
                                Vevay
                            . Indiana, on Dec. 10, 1887, and died on Sept. 1, 1902, at Joshua's
                            Rock. 
                                New York
                            . The present year is the centennial annivereak of his birth, which makes it a
                            fitting time to present a sketch of his life to the readers of the Indiana
                                Magazine of History.
                  
                     2 See especially the long "Preface" to the Library
                            Edition of The Hoosier School-moater, which was written twenty-one year,
                            after the first edition was published in 1871 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1892).
               
                     declining health of his father and the excitement of a pioneer
                    religious revival in the Methodist Church across the street, where members shouted long and loud, no
                    doubt contributed to the development of the religious and aesthetic ideals of the lad's
                    early youth. It was in 1841, during the pastorates of James Jones and Daniel McIntire, assisted by
                    Bishop Hasubbin, that Mr. and Mrs. Eggleston united with the Methodist Church and had their
                    children, Edward and George Cary, baptized.3
            
            Mrs. Eggleston having inherited her portion of the "Big Orchard Farm" on the 
                        Ohio
                     in Craig Township, the family spent the summers there in the stone house, hoping the
                    country life would improve Mr. Eggleston's health. Two younger children, Jane Lowry
                    Eggleston and Joseph William Eggleston, were born there.4 This was a happy
                    period for the family. It was on this farm in a big blockhouse on the hillside that Mary Jane Craig,
                    who became the wife of Joseph C. Eggleston, was born. Her father, the Rev. George Craig who had
                    entered two thousand acres of land in the rich Ohio River bottoms, became a
                    very successful farmer. He served with distinction in the War of 1812, was elected to the Indiana
                    Senate, 182–825, and, in 1833, was a candidate for a seat in the national House of
                    Representatives in the fourth Indiana district. This included 
                  Switzerland, Dearborn, Franklin
               , Rush, 
                        Decatur
                     and 
                        Ripley
                     counties.5 Mr. Craig died suddenly on May 29, 1833, from an attack
                    of Asiatic Cholera which was then prevalent.6
            
            To the home of the Rev. George Craig there came after the death of their parents, three small
                    daughters of Samuel and Elizabeth Johnson Lowry.7 There were now eleven children
                    in the Craig home. It was into this country home that Jane, the bound-girl, was entrusted with the
                    sole care of the little 
                  
                     3 Letter of Mrs. Jane Zimmerman. Mar. 17, 1932. in regard to baptism
                            of Eggleston family. Mss., Historical Archives, 
                                Vevay
                            . Indiana.
                  
                     4 At the Big Orchard Farm. Villogs Times (
                                Vevay
                            ). June 29, 1838.
                  
                     5
                            
                        
                                    Switzerland
                                 Monitor (
                                Vevay
                            ). May 29, 1833.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., June 26, 1333. Obituary notice.
                  
                     7 The Rev. George Craig was twice married. His first wife was Eliza
                            Horton. There were three children by this marriage: Morton Craig: Nancy Craig, who married
                            Miles Mendenhall: and Sarah Craig. who married Edward Patton. The second wife was Jane Brown
                            Lowry. daughter of Samuel and Elizabeth Johnson Lowry of 
                        Scott County, Kentucky
                     . The children of this second marriage were: Eliza Lowry
                            Craig, who married Thomas T. Wright: Mary Jane Craig. who married Joseph C. Eggleston:
                            Marion Craig. who married Elizabeth Dow: Tabitha A. Craig, who married George H. Kyle: and 
                                DeKalb
                             Craig who married Nellie Fraut. Mrs. Samuel (Elizabeth Johnson) Lowry died in
                            1814, and Samuel Lowry in 1818. leaving three small daughters. Mary, Eleanor, and Elizabeth.
                            These young girls came to live with the Craig family. the Rev. George Craig's
                            second wife being their older sister. They remained in this home until married. Mrs. Craig
                            had a brother also. William Itti Lawry. He and the Rev. Craig acted an guardians for the
                            three girls. 
                                Switzerland County
                             Probate Record. Oct. 2, 1818.
               
                     boys, Edward, six, and George Cary, four years old, as they
                    trudged a mile over the rough and rocky road to the old Bethel log schoolhouse where their mother
                    had once been a pupil. Jane was thirteen years old according to the bond, yet she obeyed
                    Edward's orders in accordance with her social position as a menial. This, the little boy of
                    six fully understood "only time and God could help." No doubt Jane expressed her
                    opinions of class distinctions more emphatically before the boys than before her mistress or
                        master.8
            
            The indenture was made in March 1840, between Jane Burnett, with the consent of her father, and
                    Joseph C. Eggleston. One of the incomprehensible things of our free born Americans was the indenture
                    of white children by their parents. Over such children, their masters acquired complete control. The
                    language of Jane Burnett's bond speaks for itself in regard to the ease with which such an
                    indenture could be abused.9
            
            Edward Eggleston made himself famous with his heroine, "Hannah, the Bound-Girl,"
                    portraying her beauty of person and character in the Hoosier School Master. His
                    brother, George Cary Eggleston, dealt with her in her own right by her name,
                    "Jane", in the First of the Hoosiers.10 The
                    brothers both leave questions in our minds. What became of Jane, the bound-girl? Was
                    Edward's romance in the main part true? Did she go with the family to 
                        Decatur County
                    ? All these 
                  
                     8 George Cary Eggleston. The First of the Hoosiers
                            (Philadelhia 1903), 30, 37.
                  
                     9 The text of the indenture from 
                                Switzerland County
                             Deed Book, I, 24, is here reprinted: "This indenture or bond made
                                March 8, 1840, between Mary Jane Frances Burnett, a minor age 10 on 29th of April next,
                                of one part. and with the consent of her father Mathew Burnett who evidences his consent
                                by signing and sealing this indenture. and Joseph C. Eggleston of Switz Co., Ind. second
                                part—
                            Witness that Mary Jane Frances Burnett, by & with the advise of said father has
                                just placed & bound herself as an apprentice to said Joseph C. Eggleston to be
                                taught the art or mystery of house wifry until she has arrived at the age of 18 years
                                & said Mary Jane Frances doth covenant & agree with said Joseph C.
                                Eggleston faithfully to serve an such apprentice until she has arrived at the age of 18
                                years from the date hereof, to dwell with him until such time, during which time to be
                                faithful & obedient to the said Joseph C. Eggleston, to do him no damage. or
                                suffer any to be done and in all things to conduct and demean herself as a good and
                                faithful apprentice decorous and orderly: and the said Joseph C. Eggleston on his part
                                covenants to provide said Mary Jane Frances Burnett with necessary wearing apparel,
                                boarding. lodging and washing and to give her a common school education that is to say
                                cause her to be instructed in reading, writing & arithmetic, an far as the
                                double rule of three inclusive, & will provide her with a good suit of clothing
                                at the expiration of said apprenticeship. Witness, 6th day of March 1840 Mathew Burnett
                            Presence Joseph C. Eggleston
                            Eugene R. Morerod her
                            Tabitha O. Craig Mary Jane X Frances Burnett mark
                  
                  
                     10 George Cary Eggleston, The First of the
                        Hoosiers.
               
                     things we do not know. Only the bond is left us and with it a
                    very good story indeed.
            "In 1843, Joseph C. Eggleston's library was very well stocked with poetry, history,
                    and classic literature, besides his law books, but lacked all things religious", reports
                    the Rev. Thomas A. Goodwin, who came to 
                        Vevay
                     in that year as pastor of the Methodist Church. The Rev. Goodwin further states: 
                        My first pastoral work in the family was to get Mr. Eggleston to subscribe for the Western
                            Christian Advocate, my last was to induce him to stock up with some religious books. After a
                            short talk he went to his desk and taking out two fifty dollar bank bills, he said,
                            "take this and get me a hundred dollars worth of Methodist books. I leave the
                            selection to you." The next day I took the mail boat for 
                                Cincinnati
                             and was at the corner of Eighth and Main Street by the time the book concern
                            was open for business. I selected Clark's Commentary, Wesley's Sermons,
                            Watson's Institute, Fletcher's Appeal, Life of Cearvosso,
                            Watson's Life of Wesley, and enough other books of this type, all bound in the good
                            old "Methodist sheep" after the style of that period to fill the bill. Mr.
                            Eggleston read the books with interest. When ten or fifteen years later I heard that Edward
                            Eggleston had become a preacher I though he would be of the solid variety from the solid
                            food I had spread before him. How he became such a story teller I can not imagine. He never
                            learned it from Clark, Watson, or Wesley.11
                  
                    
            
            Joseph C. Eggleston followed his cousin Judge Miles Eggleston from 
                        Virginia
                     to 
                        Vevay
                     and established himself in law there in 1834. He had previously graduated from William
                    and Mary College in 
                        Virginia
                     and taken a post-graduate course in law in 
                  Winchester, Virginia
               ,
                    under Judge Tucker. The young lawyer was popular and became a leader in 
                        Vevay
                     and 
                        Switzerland County
                     politics at once. He was elected a member of the Town Board of 
                        Vevay
                     when the city was incorporated by special act of the Legislature on June 6, 1836. Mr.
                    Eggleston, acting as secretary of the Board sent out neatly written notes calling meetings
                    "by early candle light."12
            
            At a town meeting on April 6, 1837, Mr. Eggleston, John Dumont, James M. Cotton, Pheneas 
                        Kent
                     and James Rous were named as a committee to draw up resolutions to be presented to the
                    state convention against the "reckless methods of the legislature on the subject of
                    internal improvements." This was at the time when the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    
                  
                     11 Rev. Thomas Goodwin, "Edward Eggleston as a Boyquot;. Western Christian Advocate, ——, 1890. Clipping in
                            possession of the writer (Mrs. Danner). The Eggleston library became one of the largest in 
                                Vevay
                             and the family had access to it until the home was broken up in 1867.
                  
                     12 Ulysses P. Schenck Papers. 
                                Switzerland County
                             Archives.
               
                     Railroad and other works were being built under the law of
                        1836.13
            
            The elder Eggleston was a talented orator and made the Fourth of July address in 
                        Vevay
                     for several years. He was elected to the Indiana House of Representatives in 1837 and
                    to the Indiana Senate in 184–841. He ran for Congress in 1844 but was defeated by Thomas
                    Smith. During this canvas he was unjustly denounced from the stump by a lawyer named Tabbatts of
                            
                  Covington, Kentucky
               , who came into Indiana to campaign for Smith. Eggleston was a
                    gentleman of the old school among whom the duel was not completely proscribed. He promptly
                    challenged Tabbatts, naming Scott Carter, who was studying law in his office, as his second. The
                    challenge was presented in 
                        Covington
                    . The challenged parts named his second and the details of the duel were discussed. At
                    this point Tabbatts expressed regret for his offensive remark and presented his apology in the form
                    and language stipulated by the code. Mr. Eggleston accepted the apology and withdrew his challenge
                    and so passed into history 
                        Vevay
                    's only chance to have a duel.14 While in the state Senate,
                    he bought a newspaper, The Statesman, through which to express his Whig
                        opinions.15
            
            During the summer of 1846, Mr. Eggleston made a lecture tour of the county, speaking at Center Square
                    when he was not able to stand to deliver his address. The lecture was on
                    "Geology," a new subject in the Middle West at that time. He died on October 21,
                    1846, at the age of thirty-four years. He was buried in the family cemetery on the "Big
                    Orchard Farm", five miles below 
                        Vevay
                    .16
            
            The death of his brilliant young father was the greatest tragedy of Edward Eggleston's life.
                    It deprived him of his father's example, his teaching, the influence of his culture, and
                    his protection. The widowed mother was hard pressed to obtain a living for herself and four small
                    children from their meager estate.17
            
            
               
                  13
                        
                            Vevay
                        
                        Times, Apr. 6, 1837.
               
                  14 John Percy Carter, "Pioneer Lawyers and Famous Cases in the 
                            Switzerland County
                         Courtquot;. Paper read before the 
                            Switzerland County
                         Historical Society. See 
                     
                                Switzerland
                             Democrat (
                            Vevay
                        ), Apr. 21, 1927.
               
                  15 Perret Dufour, Swiss Settlement of 
                                Switzerland County
                            
                  , 476.
               
                  16 This home is located on what is now State Highway 66.
               
                  17 The Eggleston family record is as follows: Joseph C.
                            Eggleston—b. May 12, 1812; m. Mary Jane Craig, May 2, 1836,
                        in 
                                Switzerland County
                            , Indiana: d. Oct. 21, 1846.
                        Mary Jane Craig—b.——, 1818 m. (1) Joseph C. Eggleston and
                            (2) Williamson Terrell, Dec. 26, 1860: d. June 15, 1857.
                    
            
            
            The will of Joseph C. Eggleston shows his implicit confidence in his wife and her business judgment.
                    He made her his sole executrix without bond or security and left her his entire estate as long as
                    she should remain a widow, "except my silver watch which I will to my son, Edward
                    Egglestonquot;. The will further declared: "In case of the marriage of Mary Jane Eggleston
                    after my demise (which I do not expect) then all of my legacy should be divided among my four
                    children, and she should take in lieu thereof lots 11–11 in the town of 
                        Vevay
                     in fee simple." These lots are those where the Main Street home is
                    located—the home in which Edward and George Cary were born.18
            
            It was during the next four years that the children attended school at the red-brick schoolhouse,
                    which later became known as the "Eggleston Schoolhousequot;. The school was taught by Julia
                    L. Dumont.19 The elementary curriculum at this time consisted of reading,
                    writing, English grammar, arithmetic, and geography. Tuition was $4.00 per quarter. High
                    School studies were algebra, physiology, mental philosophy, rhetoric and bookkeeping. Tuition was
                    $5.00. Tuition for Latin and French was $6.00.20
            
            Edward worked during summers for some of the neighboring farmers. He spent one summer with
                    "Uncle Amie Morerod", a Frenchman, who said of him: "Ed could learn to
                    speak French without an effort but he could not master the art of planting corn. Sometimes he put
                    one grain and sometimes a dozen grains to the hill."21
            
            One summer Edward lived with the McCallums on Long Run and in the winter went to school at Spring
                    Branch Ridge. In the spring he taught a few weeks in that old, log school-house. In 1850, Mrs.
                    Eggleston and the children went to 
                        Decatur
                    
                    
                  
                            Edward Egglepton—b. Dec. 10, 1837: m. (1) Lizzie Snider, Mar, 18, 1868, and
                                (2) Frances Goode. Sept. 16, 1891: d. Sept. 1, 1902.
                            George Cary Eggleston—b. Nov. 26, 1839: d. Apr. 14, 1911.
                            Jane Lowry Eggleston—b. Mar. 14, 1842: living Dec., 1937.
                            Joseph William Eggleston—b. Aug. 12, 1844: d. Dec. 1, 1927.
                        
                  
                     18
                            
                                Switzerland
                             Co. Record Book L. 443.
                  
                     19 Mrs. Dumont's son. Edgar, a bright. handsome boy of great
                            promise, while swimming with the Eggleston boys at the foot of 
                                Washington
                             Street, one Sunday morning, was accidently drowned. This tragedy was made
                            doubly distressing by the Rev. A. Bussay who chose to condemn this twelve year old boy to
                            eternal perdition for having desecrated the Holy Sabbath by getting himself drowned.
                            "It was de creed by the Almighty as a just punishment of his sin." This
                            illtimed and illogical sermon had a distracting effect upon the boy's playmates and
                            its effect upon the grief-stricken mother was never effaced. George Cary Eggleston, The First of the Hoosiers, 123: Amanda R. Dufour to Mrs. S. O. N.
                            Pleasant, Feb. 11, 1896. In collection of the writer.
                  
                     20
                            Reveille, Sept. 28, 1863. Mrs. Dumont's "School
                            Noticequot;.
                  
                     21
                            Twice a Week (
                                Vevay
                            ), Nov. 26, 1898. Editorial headed, ‘'Fifty Years as Husband
                            and Wife, Uncle Amie and Aunt Clara Morerodquot;.
               
                     County to visit her uncle, William Itti Lowry,22 and also the family of her Aunt Lucy Welsh.
            Mr. Lowry had already entered land in 
                        Decatur County
                     and had built his cabin on Clifty Creek, the only house there with a window in it. He
                    had prospered and improved his home, and had large orchards and sugar camps, but he lived in the
                    simple pioneer manner surrounded by his seven children. To him, hospitality was regarded as a
                    supreme virtue, next to courage in the pioneer practical relations of life. Col. Merit G. Welsh, a
                    cousin, was the sheriff of 
                        Decatur County
                    , and Orville T. Welsh, another cousin, is claimed by Greens-burg writers to have been
                    the original of "Shocky" in the Hoosier School Master.
            Mrs. Eggleston taught school at 
                        Milford
                     or Clifty, and Edward clerked in Merit C. Welsh's grocery store, where Henry
                    B. Smalley, M.D., traded and loafed and was the most prominent citizen of the village. It was at 
                        Milford
                     that Edward and George Cary attended Singing School, their only musical training. The
                    tuning-fork master, a Mr. Higgins, used numerical music, which was a new musical invention much in
                    vogue at this period. In this style of music, numerals were used for notes and commas to denote the
                    time on a two-line staff. It was the only music ever written for the exclusive use of the
                    tuning-fork master. The school sang without any other instrument.23
            
            There had been very little schooling in this section of the state and for several years a rough
                    element had made use of its hills to cover their robberies. There was a mixture of many strains from
                    many localities, and there, Edward learned a new language. There, he found his first real Hoosiers.
                    He was old enough to appreciate the backwoods dialect and his photographic mind registered the
                    oddities in the people he met. He had a rich Irish strain of blood from the Lowry family, and in
                    spite of his aesthetic and religious views, he noted the humorous side of life. At 
                        Vevay
                     he lived among the French Swiss and the English, or so called blue-blooded Virginians
                    of which he was one, so his experiences in 
                        Decatur County
                     registered all the more vivid pictures on his mind.
            
               
                  22 Will I. Lowry married his cousin Olivia Connelly. Both were from
                                
                     Scott County. Kentucky
                  . When the love affair developed, the parents of Olivia
                        objected to a marriage because of the relationship, hut. in the company of a brother of the
                        young woman the couple eloped and were married in 
                            Vevay
                         on Od. 8, 1822. Rank Dalmazm,' compiler, 
                            Johnson County
                         Genalogy. Mas. collection of Mrs. Edna Mead of 
                            Vevay
                        .
               
                  23
                        Christian Psalmist (1844). Hymn-book. containing 841 hymns, set to numerical
                        music, with a "Manual of Instructions" in the back of the book.
            
            
            In December, 1850, Edward's mother married the Rev. Williamson Terrell, and they moved their
                    united families to 
                        New Albany
                     where the Rev. Terrell was pastor of the Methodist Episcopal Church. The Eggleston and
                    Terrell children were not congenial, which marred Edward's happiness. The return to the 
                        Ohio
                    , furthermore, brought back his asthmatic affliction, and again, he gave up schooling
                    and was confined to the house.
            The Rev. Terrell was sent by the Conference to 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, in 1863, where Edward was able to attend school. He won a literary contest
                    with an essay entitled, "Beautiful," and received a book as a prize which was the
                    beginning of his library that grew to 4000 volumes.
            On July 31, 1853, the Indiana Reveille of 
                        Vevay
                     carried this rather startling news item: "In July Dr. Henry B. Smalley, M.D.,
                    a member of the M. E. Church, a Son of Temperance and an Exemplary man, with a student Harrison and
                    20 others were arrested with a gang of robbers at Greens-burg." The shock of this news is
                    said to have made Edward so ill that he was forced to go to bed, when he realized the deception of
                    those friends in whom he had placed confidence. Dr. Smalley was the original of "Dr
                    Small," a character in The Hoosier Schoolmaster.
            The next year the Rev. Terrell was appointed agent for the American Bible Society by the Conference,
                    and as he had to travel continuously, the family returned to the Eggleston Main Street home in 
                        Vevay
                    . The boys had their father's redbrick law office fitted up as their
                    domain—bedroom, library and reception hall, all in one—and there, at sixteen,
                    Edward organized a boys' debating society. Many of the books used were from
                    Eggleston's library, the richest in 
                        Vevay
                    , except Mrs. Dumont's, to which they also had access. Guilford Eggleston of 
                        Madison
                     sent them books, and, at one time, he came up to 
                        Vevay
                     and delivered a lecture to the club. He was a great favorite with his young cousins and
                    understood boy life. A local paper reported that Mrs. Dumont had established a Lyceum in connection
                    with her school and held the sessions in her school room, every Friday night, at her residence. The
                    programs consisted of debates, compositions and readings. An evening was often given to the study of
                    Shakespeare in which she showed her best work in the characterization  of those world famous men and women of the bard's creation.24
            
            The Eggleston boys also attended the academy in the Presbyterian Church, conducted by the Rev. Hiram
                    Wason, which is so accurately described in Roxy. The minister taught the usual subjects in the
                    curriculum of the time with the addition of astronomy. He held night sessions to observe the
                    constellations of the sky. The class-book used was the Geography of the Heavens,
                    accompanied by a Celesta Atlas prepared by Elijah H. Burrett, A.M., in 1833.25 The Rev. Wason had a genial personality that was much admired by his pupils.
                    He became a character in three of Eggleston's stories: "Reverend
                    Whitecar" in Roxy, "Hiram Mason" in The
                        Graysons, and "Reverend Brown" in "The Bound Boy" of
                        Queer Stories. Edward and his sister Jane were sent to visit an uncle in 
                        Virginia
                    , who lived at the family seat at Egglestetton. It had been the home of Major Joseph
                    Eggleston, who had received his command from Light Horse Harry Lee during the Revolutionary War. The
                    youth experienced here a new life, an easy going, restful southern type of existence, with the
                    constant attendance of slaves and contact with self-poised aristocratic gentlemen who were conscious
                    of their superiority. All this ease and opulence could have been Edward Eggleston's as his
                    uncle wished to adopt him and send him to be educated in the University of 
                        Virginia
                     and then to a great German University. What a tempting offer to one who thirsted for
                    knowledge, but the youth believed in a life of endeavor and action and was opposed to slavery. It is
                    held that he declined his uncle's offer because it would make him a sharer in the profits
                    of slavery. He had lived all his life on the border of a free state where runaway slaves were
                    sometimes captured and returned to slavery. Possibly he had observed this phase of slavery at first
                    hand.
            There was a sand bar in the Ohio River, near the Old Orchard Farm, where it was
                    easy to swim across to Indiana. Many a black man tied it and made the wooded hills and was then away
                    to the 
                        Ripley County
                     Station of the Underground Railway, but many another slave was not so fortunate. Some
                    families made good money catching and returning runaways who were then apt to be more severely
                    treated. Once a master 
                  
                     24 Mrs. S. O. N. Pleasant, "Mrs. Julia L. Dumontquot;. Reveille, ——, 1913.
                  
                     25 A set of these text books was recently donated to the 
                                Switzerland County
                             Historical Society.
               
                     found his slave asleep in a thicket and shot him as he lay on
                    the hills. This tragedy is accurately described in the Hoosier School Boy.
                    Eggleston knew, by experience, the effects of slavery, both for black and white. George Cary
                    Eggleston dressed slavery with good words and convered its ugly side. Edward said very little about
                    it, but, after thirteen months of entertainment in his wealthy uncle's home, he refused an
                    education from the profits of slavery and returned to sickness, to poverty and to work.
            In 
                        Virginia
                    , he had attended the Amelia Academy and, under the tutelage of a William H. Harrison,
                    advanced rapidly in his studies. While Edward was visiting in 
                        Virginia
                    , his mother sold the Main Street home in 
                        Vevay
                     and the family again went to 
                        Madison
                    .26
            
            Edward now spent a delightful summer at home. He coached his brother, George Cary, in Latin, George
                    having decided to attend Asbury (now DePauw) by using a scholarship that his father had bought. The
                    brothers tramped the hills around Clifty Falls and studied geology, but they
                    met a stormy opposition from the Methodist preachers and presiding elders who made every effort to
                    stop the study of that "agnostic" science. The boys "hiked" to
                    Mammouth Cave and back—quite a journey then.
            In May, 1856, Edward became ill. Threatened with tuberculosis, he and his mother took a boat trip to 
                        St. Louis
                     for his health. They met others, afflicted as he was, going to 
                        Minnesota
                    , a new land of promise. He persuaded his mother to allow him to go there. She could
                    only furnish sufficient money for his boat passage up the river, but he went, sick, alone, and
                    without funds, into a new country—Traverse des Sioux.
            He soon found work as a chain carrier for a surveying party. Then he drove three yoke of oxen hitched
                    to a prairie plow. He opened a photograph gallery. In fact, he worked at anything he could find to
                    do, in order to live. Then he became homesick. He wrote home for thirty dollars from his share of
                    the estate, but did not wait for it to arrive. Starting to walk to 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, he traversed prairies and un-claimed lands, going almost without food or
                    water and sleeping under the stars. He walked three hundred sixty miles to a raidroad station, and
                    there borrowed two dollars from a 
                  
                     26 Deed for Lot 110, Apr. 26, 1866. 
                                Switzerland County
                             Deed Book R, 682.
               
                     stranger, which, added to what he had, enabled him to buy a
                    railroad ticket to 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana, where his stepbrother liyed.27
            
            He had always had a deeply religious nature and hardships intensified his sense of obligation to his
                    God and to his fellowmen. Now he determined to preach the Gospel and obtained a license to preach as
                    a Methodist circuit rider. He probably received his exhortor's license from one of the 
                        Madison
                     churches but no record of it has been found. In the fall of 1856, he was appointed by
                    the Southeastern Indiana Conference as a junior preacher to Bellview Circuit, 
                        Dearborn County
                    , with the Rev. Rozin Monroe Barns, Senior preacher, in charge. The two men had ten
                    appointments in a rough hill country, with many creeks to ford, and it was a big job to fill their
                    pulpits and do their pastoral work. Eggleston found that he had no place or time to study at his
                    lodgings, so he bought a slow horse and read as he rode on horseback from charge to charge. He
                    continued until April, 1857, when he fell ill and resigned.28
            
            The church records of Eggleston's pastorate are treasured relics of 
                        Dearborn County
                    , and they are especially valuable because his name is not in the Conference minutes due
                    to their custom of not listing student preachers or exhortors. At this time he began writing for
                    denominational papers, and his articles were well received.
            Edward's mother, Mrs. Mary Jane Eggleston, sickened and died on June 15, 1857, at the age of
                    only thirty-eight, leaving too small Terrell children. Loving his mother dearly, this was a heavy
                    grief to Edward and the calamity broke up the home and scattered the family. George Cary, Jane, and
                    Joseph William, went to their relatives in 
                        Virginia
                    , but Edward returned to Traverse, 
                        Minnesota
                    , in search of health. He was now twenty years old, without funds, far from his Indiana
                    home, and bereft of a sympathetic mother. Mails were slow and letter postage expensive, so in this
                    far country, he could not expect to hear from his brothers and sister very often.
            He seems to have begun preaching while he waited for the 
                        Minnesota
                     Conference to convene. He traveled on foot, living out of doors almost continuously, as
                    his congregations were 
                  
                     27 G. C. Eggleson, First of the Hoosiers, 268.
                  
                     28 Eegleston Papar, Joshua's Rock. 
                                N. Y.
                            
                  
               
                     scattered over a wide scope of country and were composed almost
                    equally of Indians, white settlers, hunters, trappers, and half-boiled voyageurs
                    on the Minnesota river. His church was often simply the one room of a
                    farmer's log cabin where he missed the pulpit upon which to pound to emphasize the points
                    of his sermon in the good orthodox style of the ex-horter.
            His first convert relates: 
                        He came to our home near 
                                Cleveland
                             [
                                Minnesota
                            ] to preach, and that day he strongly felt the need of a pulpit. "Why
                            can't you make me a pupit?" he asked my father after the sermon.
                            "I can and I will before you come again," father replied. Father went to
                            work and from the trunk of a tree he hewed out a round pulpit. The young preacher exhorted
                            with so much fervor from his new pulpit that I was the first convert of the man who
                            afterwards became famous.
                        In the fall of that same year [1867] the annual Methodist Conference was held at 
                                Winona
                             and Mr. Eggleston prepared to go. My father asked him if he were going to the
                            Conference: "Yes, I am going," was the reply. Father knew money was scarce
                            and that Mr. Eggleston's preaching and soap making, which occupation he engaged in
                            through the week, yielded him little revenue, so he went to one of the brethern, a certain
                            Mr. Arter, who had recently come from the east, bringing gold coin, and told him of Mr.
                            Eggleston's desire to go to 
                                Winona
                            . Mr. Arter was interested and offered Mr. Eggleston five dollars to help defray
                            the expense of his trip, but was met with a polite but firm refusal. "I shall not
                            need money," said Mr. Eggleston. "I can walk part of the way, some one
                            will give me a lift now and then and the brethren will give me food and lodging when I
                            require it." However, Mr. Arter insisted that he should take the gold, and he
                            finally prevailed, but Mr. Eggleston started on foot for the Conference, a distance of a
                            hundred miles. Upon his return he gave the gold to its original owner, for with sturdy
                            pioneer independence, he had traveled the entire distance to 
                                Winona
                             on foot, except for an occasional lift from some traveler, driving a slow ox
                                team.29
                  
                    
            
            When Mr. Eggleston appeared at the Conference as a candidate for admission, he expected to find there
                    the necessary recommendations and credentials from the Church and Conference in Indiana, but they
                    had not come and without them the 
                        Minnesota
                     Conference could not receive him. Fortunately Bishop Edward A. Ames30 was presiding at the Conference. He was from Indiana, had preached in 
                        Decatur County
                    , and was acquainted with the Egglestons, so he 
                  
                     29
                            Old Roil Fence Comers. published by D.A.R. of St. Peter, Minn. The young
                            woman who who the first convert married a Mr. Bean, and her statement is signed Mrs. Bean.
                  
                     30 Biahop Ames was Superintendent of Indian Missions, and traveled
                            between 
                                Texas
                             and Lake Superior. He was lovingly spoken of by those who
                            knew him as "the joy of the frontierquot;. A. B. Hyde, D.D., The Story
                                of Methodism, 367.
               
                     vouched for the young preacher at the quarterly meeting held at
                    Central Church, 
                        Winona
                    , and they having examined him as to his educational qualifications, recommended him to
                    the annual Conference which admitted him on trial.
            Rev. William McKinley, D.D., a member of the 
                        Minnesota
                     Conference, who was present when Mr. Eggleston was admitted, describes him as he then
                    appeared: 
                        He was twenty years old, tall and gaunt, with long hair, unshorn locks and unshaven face.
                            Unclerical manners and unclerical clothes all of which he had out grown, made him an
                            unpromising candidate for clerical honors, but it soon became apparent that he was a genius
                            amply able to take care of himself and not to be measured by conventional standards.31
                  
                    
            
            His first appointment was at Traverse in the St. Peter district on the Minnesota
                    River. This circuit seems to have covered the larger part of Nicollet, Lesueur and 
                        Winona
                     Counties, which Eggleston described as the "frontier of the frontierquot;. At
                    one time while making his circuit on foot across the prairie he was lost in a snow storm. In
                    despair, he roused himself for one more effort and reached the house he had left, having traveled in
                    a circle. Exposure, lack of proper clothing, improper food and cold, depleted his system and he
                    became very ill. Only through expert nursing was his life saved. He married the young woman who
                    nursed him back to health, Lizzie Snider, on March 18, 1857, at Saint Peter, 
                        Minnesota
                    .32
            
            In 1858, Eggleston was appointed General Agent for 
                        Minnesota
                     for the American Bible Society, but it was necessary for him to do any work his hands
                    found to do to help his meager salary cover expenses. He speaks of his work as "always
                    honest but sometimes undignified", and in Queer Stories describes the
                    disagreeable contacts and odors of soap making.33
            
            He established a home in St. Peter which was significant of an awakening to the appreciation of
                    conventionalities and consideration for the world's judgment of a man's ability by
                    his personal appearance and manner of living. One of the now prized relics of this period of his
                    pastorate is his first parlor furniture of the conventional rose-carved, mohair upholstered design.
                    Some of the pieces bear the name, Edward Eggleston, 
                  
                     31 Rev. William McKinley, "Edward Egeleston", Wakrrn Christion, Advocate, Nov. ——, 1902. Clipping
                            in collection of writer.
                  
                     32 Eggleston Papers. Joshna's Rock. 
                                N. Y.
                             Four children were born to this union: Elizabetb, Allema, Blanche, and Edward
                            Jr. The son died in infancy.
                  
                     33 "The Young Soap-boiler", Queer
                                Stories, 164.
               
                     painted in black at the time of shipment. When he left St.
                    Peter, this furniture was sold by Eggleston to a druggist named Jones, from whom it was purchased by
                    F. E. Lange, an early jeweler. It is now owned by Mr. Lange's daughter, Mrs. Charles
                    Blanding, who has removed the furniture to 
                  Harvey,
                            North Dakota
               .34
            
            At the fourth quarterly conference, held June 27, 1857, Bartley Blain, Theophilus Drew, Edward
                    Eggleston and W. B. Polling were recommended to the 
                        Winona
                     Annual Conference and all but the last named were received on trial by the
                        Conference.35
            
            Edward Eggleston's first regular appointment was at Traverse in the St. Peter district on
                    the Minnesota River, in 185–8. The following year he acted as agent
                    of the American Bible Society. In 1859, he was ordained an Elder and received an appointment to the
                    Market Street Church in st. Paul. He became active in the Conference and served on committees.
            He was at 
                        Stillwater
                     during the year 186–1, and then was returned to 
                        St. Paul
                     to serve at 
                        Jackson
                     Street Church. In 1864, he was appointed to 
                        Winona
                    , where he remained two years. In 1866, this statement appears in the minutes:
                    "The character of E. Eggleston was passed and he was, at his own request, granted a
                    supernumerary relation and left without an appointment." His name remained on the
                    Conference list as a temporary supernumerary until 1873. The last statement about him is in the
                    minutes of the Conference of September, 1875: "E. Eggleston was passed in character and
                    changed to the Supernumerary list."36
            
            While in 
                        St. Paul
                    , Mr. Eggleston gave lectures and helped to organize and promote the 
                        St. Paul
                     Library Association. In 1863, he was elected corresponding secretary and librarian of
                    this association.
            "At the Annual Conference held in 
                        St. Paul
                    , Sept. –2, 1864, Bishop Kingsley presiding, Edward Eggleston was appointed
                    to this 
                        Winona
                     Station," says Matthew G. Norton, who adds: 
                        At the Conference held in Fairbault, Sept. 2–1, 1866, Bishop Thompson presiding,
                            Brother Eggleston was returned to 
                                Winona
                            . In 
                        
                           34 Minneapolir Tribune, Jan. 2, 1988.
                        
                           35 Minutes of the 
                                        Minnesota
                                     Annual Conference of the Methodist Church, 1837.
                        
                           36
                                    Ibid., 1876.
                     
                             February, 1866, Brother Eggleston, on account of
                            failing health requested to be relieved from the charge. This church had long desired
                            Brother Eggleston as its pastor and we were made happy when he came to US. He was a brother
                            dearly beloved and it was a source of great grief and sorrow when the condition of his
                            health made it impossible for him to remain longer with us. The 
                                Winona
                             church has always been thankful that so much of his life was given to it, and
                            even in his going we did not withold our love from him.37
                  
                    
            
            Mr. Arrin F. Smith, of the 
                        Winona
                     Central Church, gives his boyhood impressions of Edward Eggleston: 
                        I was only a boy of ten when Mr. Eggleston came to 
                                Winona
                             but as my mother was one of several relatives, that were Methodists and it was
                            at that time customary to have the minister among them, when a bit of company was present, I
                            often had the pleasure of hearing Brother Eggleston tell of his travels in and about the
                            country. As I remember he traveled and gave lectures which he illustrated with stereoptican
                            pictures. He was an accomplished raconteur and we of the "second table
                            guests" used to hang around the dining room doors to hear the stories he told. He
                            had a command of language that gave a rhythmic flow of words—a genial personality
                            and an admirable talker with an eye for the picturesque and a sense of humor, a charming
                                character.38
                  
                    
            
            He gradually outgrew his feeling that his urge to write and his intellectual development were
                    inspired by evil and began contributing stories to a juvenile paper, The Little
                        Corporal. So great was his success that he was invited to become its associate editor in
                    1866. He accepted the offer and removed to 
                  Evanston,
                            Illinois
               . He edited the National Sunday School Teacher for a period and wrote for the 
                  
                            New York
                         Independent under the name "Penholderquot;. In 1870 he became editor
                    of the Independent and felt that he had reached the height of his ambition, but,
                    after six months, he had a political difference with the owner and resigned.
            He then edited Hearth and Home, and first published the story, "The
                    Hoosier School Master", in it as a serial to increase the circulation of the magazine. The
                    owners objected to fiction but subscribers increased in number so rapidly that their objections were
                    overcome. Eggleston's record novel, The End of the World, soon followed.
                    It was very popular. The Mystery of Metropolisville and the Circuit
                        Rider were novels based on his nine years as an itinerant minister in 
                        Minnesota
                    .
            
               
                  37 Statanent of Matthew G. Norton, 1905. Mss. collection of Central
                        Church, Winons Minn.
               
                  38 Arrin F. Smith to the writer.
            
            
            In this period, the Methodist Church severely criticised members who indulged in reading fiction, so
                    a preacher who wrote and published novels could not expect to escape criticism. One clergyman
                    advised Mr. Eggleston to "Throw away ambition, for a literary life is tempting you to
                        destruction."39 Another one threatened a heresy prosecution on
                    account of a remark of one of his characters.
            After the publication of The End of the World, Mr. Eggleston resigned as editor of
                        Hearth and Home, and his brother, George Cary, succeeded him. Now, he devoted
                    all his time to literary work. He was invited to take charge of the Lee Avenue Congregational
                    Church, 
                  Brooklyn, New
                            York
               , in 1874, to prove that religion should be an expression of
                    service to humanity without creed, and accepted. He spent all of his salary on charity and provided
                    for his family out of royalties from his copyrighted books. The name that he coined for his charge,
                    "Church of Christian Endeavor", is perpetuated in the young people's
                    societies of several denominations, He served this creedless Church for five years, it being the
                    only church of any kind that he served after leaving 
                        Minnesota
                    .40
            
            He intended to base his literary reputation on a series of 
                        United States
                     histories, and to obtain information he toured Europe in 187–880, devoted
                    his time 6 historical research in regard to the beginnings of American history. After his return, he
                    and his brother built beautiful homes on the shore of Lake George at Joshua's Rock, 
                        N. Y.
                     Edward Eggleston's residence and his library, a separate building, are
                    structures of artistic beauty, built of native traprock of beautiful and varied colors. He called
                    his home "Owls' Nest", and George Cary Eggleston's home near by
                    was named "Culrossquot;. In regard to this location, Mr. Eggleston wrote: 
                        Joshua's Rock is five miles from 
                                Caldwell
                            . We live remote from everybody, only the mountain fanners are our neighbors and
                            our only society is that of the wood fire. We like our life here among the woods and trees
                            and flowers very much, but we are never sure how our friends will like such a lonely
                                place.41
                  
                    
            
            His three daughters developed into accomplished women. Mrs. Elizabeth (Eggleston) Seeley assisted her
                    father in writing 
                  
                     39 G. C. Eggleston. First of the Hoosiers,
                            80–.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., 318. While in Brooklyn Edward Eggleston lived at 311 Adelphi
                            Street.
                  
                     41 Edward Eggleston letters, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, June 17, 1981.
               
                     his Indian biography, a new style of literature in which he had
                    no competitor. The second daughter Allegra, was the artist who illustrated The
                    Graysons and numerous articles published in the Century Magazine in the
                    nineties. Her art signature is Æ. The wife and mother died in 1889 and is buried in a
                    private cemetery on their estate at Joshua's Rock.
            When a man becomes famous his life is no longer private and free, and he seeks the quiet place away
                    from the throng to continue his line of work. At Owl's Nest, Mr.
                    Eggleston collected a library comprising 4000 volumes, besides many old prints, casts, manuscripts,
                    autographs of famous people, curios and antiquated wood blocks for illustrating his histories of the 
                        United States
                    .42 Here he wrote The Beginners of a Nation, The
                        Transit of Civilization and several of his school histories. When funds ran short for
                    historical research, he laid it aside and wrote something that would bring immediate returns. This
                    was the real reason that he wrote The Faith Doctor. Twenty years he devoted to
                    study to produce his histories of the 
                        United States
                    . They show careful research and talent, but are now largely forgotten while his fiction
                    is still widely read.
            The famous author delivered eight lectures on history at 
                        Columbia
                     College and wrote thirteen articles for the Century after November,
                    1882, while he was compiling his histories and beginning his historical career. However, his fame
                    rests chiefly upon his first dialect novel, the Hoosier School Master, which after
                    sixty-five years still sells. The book has proved itself to be a sort of Nicholas
                        Nickelby to America through the portrayal of the life of "Hanna, the
                    bound-girl."
            On September 15, 1891, Edward Eggleston married Frances Goode of 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana. Miss Goode, the second wife of the famous author, was the grand-daughter of
                    Judge Miles Eggleston, who came to Indiana in advance of Joseph C. Eggleston to make his home at 
                        Madison
                    . He was famous for his decisions in a number of Indiana's pioneer trials. Mr.
                    Eggleston and his wife spent their summers at "Owl's Nest",
                    Joshua's Rock, 
                        New York
                    , where the writer continued to produce books. He also lectured at Chatauqua, 
                        New York
                    , at 
                        Philadelphia
                     and other places. On May 3, 1893, he lectured in his native little city, 
                        Vevay
                    , on "How They Live in Irelandquot;. The winters were spent in
                            
                  New York City, Washington
               , D. C., and 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana.
            
               
                  42 This collection of books. etc., was given by the heirs of Edward
                        Eggleston to the State Library at 
                     Albany,
                                N. Y.
                  
               
            
            
            In this period, George Cary Eggleston was living at "Cul-ross", his home at
                    Joshua's Rock. He was busy writing Evelyn Byrd and other works of
                    fiction. The brothers were always genial companions, and these years that they spent together were
                    precious to both. After the death of Edward in 1902, George Cary Eggleston completed and revised The New Century History of the 
                            United States
                        
               , which was inscribed: "In memory of Edward Eggleston." At
                    "Culross" George Cary also wrote The First of the Hoosiers,
                    which appeared in 1903. This is the story of the closely interwoven lives of the brother authors.
                    The book was fittingly dedicated: "TO those who loved Edward Eggleston—not to
                    any one of them, but to all—I dedicate this tribute to his memory.—George Cary
                    Eggleston."
            "The Eggleston Library of 
                        Vevay
                    " was named in honor of Edward Eggleston in 1877. The author was particularly
                    pleased that his birthplace was the first to honor him for his literary achievements. His response
                    shows his affection for the home of his boyhood. To the members of the Library Committee, he wrote:
                        
                        I have to acknowledge the receipt of your flattering and gratifying letter of the 29th inst.
                            with information in regard to the New Library Association in the City of 
                                Vevay
                             which you have done me the honor to name for me. There are no more honors after
                            that. If there is anything in the world a far wandering adventurous man desires it is to be
                            remembered by those whose fortune kept them in their old home. To me 
                                Vevay
                             is home in a sense that no other place in the world is home. As the years go
                            on, the love of the lovely old town grows to be a passion in me. I keep fresh the memory of
                            all the haunts of my boyhood, the wild grape vines that I plundered, the hickory trees where
                            I filled my basket, the thicket in Tardy's field where I gathered wild flowers for
                            the girls. Sometimes the old sights and sounds come back so vividly as to give me a touch of
                            home sickness, such that I think of cutting all cords that tie me to the life in the great
                            city and coming back one day to live again where I went to school, played town ball, three
                            old cat, bull pen and marbles. This naming of the library association for me is like a love
                            message from home to a home sick school boy. I am not quite forgotten in the dear old town!
                        I wish you all success. I have to thank the directors and the association for the great honor
                            they have conferred upon me and for the flattering terms of the resolutions which I am sure
                            I do not deserve.43
                  
                    
            
            The "Eggleston Library" did not prosper, but the "Eggleston Club"
                    perpetuates Edward's name in the town where 
                  
                     43 Esgleston to Mesars. F. M. Griffith, George S. Pleasant, and J. W.
                            Baxter. Jr. (Library Committee). 
                        Brooklyn,
                                    N. Y.
                     , Sept. 29, 1897. The
                            letter was published in Reveills after its receipt by the
                        Committee.
               
                     he was born. In 1908, when the Upper Seminary School of 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, where Edward Eggleston had once been a pupil and teacher, was replaced by a
                    handsome, modern school building, it was rechristened the "Eggleston School" in
                    honor of the memory of the novelist.44
            
            It is very probable that the Methodist minister who engaged in literary efforts on the side was
                    influenced somewhat to turn to a literary career because of the criticism that he received from
                    churchmen. It seems probable, too, that his sincere attachment to religious activities made him feel
                    the criticism so keenly that he turned from historical romance to historical research and the
                    writing of history. In the field of history, the competition of trained and experienced writers was
                    severe, which made it necessary for Eggleston to spend years in preparation. In the field of the
                    realistic novel he was alone when he wrote his frontier romances. Had it not been for the harsh
                    criticism that was meted out to him as a novel-writing clergyman, his fame as a writer of fiction
                    might be greater than it is. Even so, it is as a writer of novels, not as a writer of history, that
                    he is remembered today and will continue to be remembered.
            Edward Eggleston remains the first and one of the few great American writers who have succeeded in
                    giving to their work the genuine savor of the soil, homespun and native.45 In
                    1873, in his "Preface" to The Mystery of Metropolisville, this
                    early exponent of realistic fiction made a noble defense of his departure from orthodox writing:
                        
                        A novel should be the truest of books. It partakes in a certain sense of the nature of both
                            history and art. It needs to be true to human nature in its permanent and essential
                            qualities, and it should truthfuly represent some specific and temporary manifestation of
                            human nature. It has been objected that I have copied life too closely, but it seems to me
                            that the work to be done just now, is to represent the forms and spirit of our own life, and
                            thus free ourselves from habitual imitation of that which is foreign. I have wished to make
                            my stories valuable as a contribution to the history of civilization in America. If it be
                            urged that this is not the highest function, I reply that it is just now the most necessary
                            function of this kind of literature. Of the value of these stories as works of art, others
                            must judge; but I shall have at least rendered one substantial though humble service to our
                            literature, if I have portrayed correctly certain forms of American life and manners.
                    
            
            
               
                  44
                        
                            Madison
                         (Indiana) Courier, Apr. 28, 1997.
               
                  45 For an excellent, short sketch of Edward Eggleaton's life and
                        work, nee the article by Dr. Ralph R. Rusk. formerly on the faculty of Indiana University, in
                        the Dictionary of American Biographu.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            The exasperation experienced upon failure to find in newspapers, whether current or old, the outcome
                    of incidents to which attention is called in an earlier issue leads me to announce that the
                    long-heralded book by Charles N. Thompson, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Sons of the Wilderness, John and William Conner, was published by
                    the Indiana Historical Society on November 6. It constitutes Volume 12 of the Indiana
                        Historical Society Publications and is a sizable volume of 283 pages. Paper-bound copies
                    have been distributed without charge to members of the Society. They are for sale to the public at
                    the office of the Society in the State Library and Historical Building at $1.50 for
                    paper-bound copies and $2.00 for cloth-bound copies. (See Reviews and Notices).
            The Society, with other organizations, is sponsoring the meeting of the Mississippi
                    Valley Historical Association at 
                        Indianapolis
                     next spring, April 28, 29, and 30. This is the first time the Association has met in
                    this state since it helped celebrate the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the capture of Fort
                    Sackville by George Rogers Clark in the 1929 meeting at 
                        Vincennes
                    . As all states, any part of which drain into the Mississippi
                    Valley, are included in the Association, the larger part of the 
                        United States
                     is represented. The attendance is usually smaller and more homogenous than that at the
                    meetings of the American Historical Association; which for many make the Mississippi
                        Valley meetings pleasanter if not more profitable. The American Historical
                    Association meeting this year being more remote (at 
                        Philadelphia
                    ), Indiana should contribute generously to the attendance at the Mississippi
                        Valley Historical Association meeting at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in April.
            A Works Progress Administration project of interest to historical societies is a state-wide project
                    for museums, approved early in November. It is now being set up in various museums and parts of the
                    state by Mrs. Naomi Whitesell, state field supervisor of professional projects. Her office is at
                    1202 
                        Kentucky
                     Avenue (telephone, Lincoln 2431), 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Sixty-eight thousand dollars have been allotted to the project Museums of county
                    historical societies and other museums  supported in any part by
                    public funds, by arrangement with Mrs. Whitesell and the W.P.A. district supervisor, ought to be
                    able under this project to secure competent help for cleaning their rooms and collections and
                    keeping them open during regular office hours.
            The first fruits in the way of publication of the W.P.A. Historical Records Survey, supervised by
                    Samuel J. Kagan, is in the press at the time of writing and will undoubtedly be published before
                    this number of the Magazine is distributed. It is the Inventory of
                        the County Archives of Indiana, No. 6, 
                            Boone County
                         (
                            Lebanon
                        ), prepared by The Historical Records Survey Division of Women's and
                    Professional Projects, Works Progress Administration. The volume is being published by the Indiana
                    Historical Bureau with a subsidy from the Governor's Commission on Unemployment Relief. It
                    is the hope that this volume may be an example and a model for the inventories of other counties and
                    that many others will be published by the counties concerned. The present volume sells for
                    $1.00 and the sale is expected to defray the expense of publication. These publications
                    will save endless time and trouble for everyone who uses county records.
         
         
         
            History Teachers' Forum
            INTELLIGENCE v. BLIND FORCES
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
            The assertion has often been made in recent years that the development of political ideas as a basis
                    for meeting economic and social needs has not kept pace with economic advancement. There is some
                    truth in the assertion, but there is more that should be added. Students of history, government, and
                    society should, of course, try to keep up with a changing world. This does not mean that all
                    students in these fields should be expected to understand the fundamental problems of man's
                    progress. It can only mean that among such students, there should appear, from time to time, seers
                    who can point out the methods that should be employed and the needed modifications in political and
                    social machinery. Such thinkers do appear, but their contributions go largely unheeded in a world
                    where success means the accumulation of capital.
            A guiding idea in modem economic affairs is that any one may try any newly invented method, process
                    or machine. If the use of the method, process or machine increases the income of the individuals,
                    firms, or corporations concerned, it is pronounced good, the assumption being that it must therefore
                    be beneficial to all society. Social and political agencies must then adapt themselves to whatever
                    follows the changes that take place in the economic world or be regarded as barriers to progress.
            The real question relates to the soundness of the assumption that all newly invented methods,
                    processes, or machines that make for greater income to the capitalists, large or small, who use
                    them, are blessings to the people as a whole. As long as this assumption goes unchallenged, there is
                    little that students of history, government, and society can do save trail along. If whatever is, is
                    right, then progress or decadence comes whether we will or no, and anything that happens must
                    contribute to the natural trends of the period.
            On the whole, students and teachers in the field of social studies have done remarkably well. They
                    have searched for the truth, they have faced the facts and have tried to draw honest and sound
                    conclusions. Those who have dealt with mature students have sent many of them into the world with
                    inquiring, open minds, only to see most of them quickly succumb 
                    to the powerful currents of accepted belief in the realms of economic activity. Even so, it must be
                    true that inquiring, open minds are, or will some day become, the highest assets to struggling
                    humanity. Those who seek for truths, the application of which will enable the peoples of this modern
                    era to rise to higher levels, must never become discouraged. It seems as certain as anything can be
                    that some time they will come into their own—that the peoples of the earth will heed
                    their teachings and not permit blind forces to control.
         
         
         
            My 
                        North Carolina
                     Boyhood
            A REMINISCENCE
            ALONZO LEROY WHEELEB
            
            
                    I was born in 
                            North Carolina
                         on March 1, 1853, and came to Indiana with my parents in 1864 when I was eleven
                        years old. I have lived in the Hoosier state ever since—a period of seventy-three
                            years.1 My father's name was Alfred Wheeler, and my
                        grandfather's name was John Wheeler. My mother's maiden name was Lydia Macy.
                        She lived to be more than ninety-nine years of age. To her death, she took an active interest in
                        life, retaining her faculties to a remarkable degree. I was the seventh of ten children. I have
                        a sister living, who is five years older than myself. Two other sisters, older than I, died in
                        1935. Before they died, there were four of us living whose ages averaged more than eighty.
                    Going back to my earliest recollections, I remember that my parents lived on what was called the
                        Lindsey place. I remember that we had some chestnut trees, and that a fellow by the name of
                        Thornberry came to our chestnut trees and was getting our chestnuts. They told me in later years
                        that I approached him and called out: "You Zeek, get out of our pasture." I
                        don't remember whether he obeyed the order or not.
                    The Lindsey place that I have spoken of was up near Sandy Ridge, in 
                            Guilford County
                        . There was a church by this name and the community or section was known as Sandy
                        Ridge. It was appropriately named for the soil, what there was of it, was very sandy. To the
                        best of my recollection, my father moved directly from the Lindsey place to the farm that we
                        left when coming to Indiana. This, we called the Starbuck place. My father purchased it from
                        Charles Starbuck about the year 1857.2 It was probably the first winter that
                        we lived on this place that there came the heaviest snow that that section of 
                            North Carolina
                         has any account of. The snow was very deep and drifted in places to the tops of the
                        fences so that people could pass over them. Folks were snow bound for days.
                    A cousin of ours by the name of Emeline Wheeler was detained at our home for some days. She
                        finally went home and my sisters accompanied her for a distance. I was a small boy about four
                        years of age. After they had left the house, I followed them unobserved. In my efforts to walk
                        through the snow I fell down frequently. I would catch with my hands then hold my hands out and
                        the snow would melt for a time. Finally when I was found, icicles were frozen on the ends of my
                        fingers. I was taken into the house and snow rubbed on my hands then put into cold water and
                        given a good application of Mexican Mustang Liniment. No serious consequences followed this
                        experience.
                    
                  
                     1 Mr. A. L. Wheeler now lives at 
                                Mooresville
                            , Indiana. The 
                                North Carolina
                             home in which he was born was a fourth of a mile east of Wheeler's
                            Mill. This is in 
                                Guilford County
                             of which 
                                Greensboro
                             is the county seat. The Wheeler Mill in Indiana was located in 
                                Hendricks County
                             at Hadley about seven miles southwest of 
                                Danville
                            .
                  
                     2 The Starbuck place is the one mentioned later in this reminiscence
                            as the farm of the writer's father, and should not he confused with the Jesse
                            Wheeler place on which the Alfred Wheeler family lived for a period after the owner (Jesse
                            Wheeler) came to Indiana in 1860. The Starbuck farm was about twelve miles southwest of 
                                Greensboro
                            .
               
                    
                    It must have been only a few years following this experience that I had the misfortune of falling
                        into a branch, head first. Father usually butchered a good many hogs and even in those days, we
                        would save everything but the squeal. After taking most of the fat off the intestines, they
                        would empty and wash them, later using them to make soap. A good place to wash the intestines
                        was in a nearby stream. This work was being done by older members of the family, and I was an
                        interested onlooker. Crouched on my elbows and knees on the abrupt bank, I, becoming
                        over-balanced, fell head first into the water among the intestines. I came out a pitiable sight,
                        and not any the cleaner by having been in the branch. I have sometimes thought that, were it not
                        for the fact that a kind 
                            Providence
                         watches over children, few of them would live to become grown-ups.
                    At another time, as a boy some ten years of age, I and some other boys were bathing in
                        Wheeler's Mill Pond. I had seen some of the others, who were older than myself, wade
                        across the pond, and I thought I could do the same. I had not yet learned to swim. I started
                        across and finally got where the water was a little too deep. There I strangled and floundered
                        around trying to get out. A young man by the name of Henry Johnson come to my aid and led me out
                        safely. Had it not been for assistance, I probably would have drowned.
                    I sometimes rode to the pasture to get the cows. One time, the mule on which I was riding took a
                        notion to run, and those who have ridden bareback on a mule know what a difficult job I had.
                        This mule put his nose to the ground, and I slid forward onto his neck. Finally I went off over
                        his head to the ground, and the mule, jumping clear of me, went galloping across the pasture
                        toward the barn. He left me, in my anger, to make my way on foot which luckily I was able to do.
                    My sister Lou and I went to the mill in a two-wheeled dump-cart that father had constructed to
                        haul the dirt that came from digging a cellar under the house. We had a number of bags in the
                        cart and the bed was pretty evenly balanced on the axle. To hold the bed down there was a
                        leather loop on the running gears, and a pin was put through this loop and through a hole in the
                        front of the cart bed. We were going up a long hill leading away from the mill. I was sitting on
                        the grist that we had gotten at the mill. Boy-like, I put my toe against the pin and pushed it
                        out. Then, when reaching a little more of an incline, up went the front end of the cart bed and,
                        as there was no rear-gate, out went the grist, and the horse went trotting up the hill to the
                        top where he stopped and waited for us to overtake him.
                    Another milling experience that happened to my sister Emily and myself is worth telling. We then
                        lived at the Jesse Wheeler place, and the distance to Wheeler's Mill was seven miles.
                        We started with some sacks of grain in what we called a Yankee wagon—a light
                        one-horse wagon with a low box-bed. We had proceeded some distance and the road must have been
                        pretty bad for on going up a hill, a wheel ran into a deep rut or wash, turning the wagon over.
                        The bed dropped off the running gears, but luckily the horse was gentle. I was only a small boy
                        but sister was a good sized girl. I remember that she, with what little help I could give,
                        tugged the wagon-bed up the side of the hill and  got it on
                        the running gears. We then put our sacks back into the wagon and went on our way.
                    The railroad ran through the farm and there was a crossing to go from one part of the farm to
                        another. A neighbor woman by the name of Armfield was visiting at our house and mother, wanting
                        to borrow something from the woman, had me accompany her to her home to get the article. The
                        most direct way to the neighbor's house was to go to the railroad crossing, then walk
                        the track the rest of the way. We started, and, on nearing the railroad, we stopped to watch a
                        freight train go by. We stood near the track until the last car had passed, then I jumped on the
                        track and threw my hat against the end of the last car. The hat dropped on the drawbar and away
                        it went. I ran as fad as I could, hoping to retrieve the hat, but I could not run quite fast
                        enough. In those days, the caboose was coupled next to the ene and not at the rear end of the
                        train as now.
                    I went to Hickory Grove to church with my parents. It was warm weather and the services were held
                        under a canopy, that is, a roof with supports and no siding. I was sitting with my father and it
                        seemed to me that the meeting would never close. Finally, while most of the people in the
                        congregation, including my father, were kneeling in prayer, I slipped out and went out into the
                        grove where a lot of horses were hitched, most of them to small trees. I got too close to an old
                        grey horse's head, and he grabbed at me with his teeth, pulled my hair and tore the
                        brim partly off my new hat. This was sufficient punishment, one would think—not that
                        I cared for having my hair pulled, but the damage to the new hat was terrible—but, in
                        addition to all this, my mother gave me a whipping. I knew perfectly well that I was not allowed
                        to leave church during services, and, as well as I remember, this was the only time I ever did
                        such a thing until I was nearly grown.
                    While on the subject of hats, I must tell of the hat I wore to Indiana. I caught rabbits in
                        box-traps during the winter of 186–864. Saving the pelts from twenty rabbits, I took
                        them to a hatter by the name of Edwards. He made me a fur hat the natural color of the fur. My
                        father gave him fifty pounds of flour, when flour was selling at a high price, for making this
                        hat for me. A day laborer received ten dollars for a day's work at that time. This was
                        in Confederate money and ten dollars were equal to fifty cents in specie.
                    Another circumstance that I call to mind, I will relate here. As I shall explain later, my
                        parents were suspected of feeding and helping those who were trying to keep out of the
                        Confederate Army. As a blind and to ward off suspicion of feeding and helping these men, my
                        parents took into the home to board, the wife of a Confederate officer. Her name was Mrs.
                        Conrad. Her husband had been in the Ambulance Corps, and, one day when getting out of an
                        ambulance, with his hand holding the muzzle of his gun, the gun struck the double-tree and was
                        discharged, blowing off his front finger and one nostril of his nose. The charge passed up his
                        forehead, but it did not cut quite deep enough to kill him. However, it disfigured him pretty
                        badly. I remember that I asked him if he was blowing his nose when he was wounded. After
                        recovering from this injury, he did clerical work in 
                            Greensboro
                        , the  county seat. He would come to my
                        father's home for the week-end. Both his father and his wife's father owned
                        slaves and were reputed to be well off. While Mr. Conrad was staying with us, we had a young man
                        by the name of Bodenhamer in the house. He was disguised as a girl in order to avoid military
                        service. One day, Mrs. Conrad came in rather unexpectedly while my mother and sisters were
                        talking with a Yankee, E. J. Johnson, who also stayed at our house for some time, in hiding.
                        Being in a close place, Johnson scooted under the bed at her approach. The bed was an old
                        fashioned high poster with foot curtains. Mrs. Conrad sat down on the side of the bed talking
                        and swinging her feet. During the conversation, one of my sisters made the remark: "I
                        wish the Yankees would come." Mrs. Conrad spoke up, declaring: "Well, God
                        knows that I am as near the Yankees as I want to be!" The Yankee under the bed could
                        have caught her ankle had he so desired.
                    On my recent visit to 
                            North Carolina
                        , I was thrilled by visiting the old house and the old mill that was built by my
                        grandfather, as nearly as I can tell, well over one hundred fifty years ago. The house, with old
                        hip-roof, large fire-place and mantel nearly six feet high, still stands. The old
                        weather-boarding, worn away until not much more than half of the original thickness remains,
                        still covers the sides. The house was put together with hand-forged nails made by an old slave
                        whose name was Seth (Seth Starbuck). This old slave would do work for the public after he had
                        done a day's work for his master, and the master let him do this that he might buy his
                        freedom. After he had purchased his own freedom, he worked and purchased his wife's
                        freedom. My father was accustomed to run his mill at night, and he told me that he heard Black
                        Seth's anvil ringing many a time at twelve o'clock midnight.
                    Wheeler'g Mill was a place of interest and activity in pioneer days. During the
                        Revolutionary War, the Mill was grinding some flour for the American Army when the British
                        soldiers came. My great-grandfather3 expected that they would take the
                        flour, and in order to mislead them, he put his hand on a barrel of flour that belonged to him
                        and said: ‘This is my flour. You certainly will not take private property."
                        They went away and did not take anything.
                    Grandfather died soon after my father and mother were married and they lived a few years with
                        father's mother. This old homestead stands about one-fourth mile west of the Wheeler
                        Mill. Father and mother, moving to themselves, occupied a house up the hill, about one-fourth of
                        a mile east of the Mill.4
               
                    As father was associated with the mill as part owner and miller for a number of years, he told me
                        of several incidents that happened within his memory. He had an uncle by the name of Welch. This
                        Uncle Bill had a lot of home made tow-bags that would hold from three to five bushels and father
                        did not like to handle them. One day when the negroes came to the mill, father selected one big
                        bag with as much in it as he could handle. He put this bag into the wagon, then carried and
                        filled it full. Uncle Bill took the hint and afterwards put less grain in 
                     
                        3 The meat-grandfather's name wan Madove Wheeler.
                     
                        4 This wan the Lindsay place, mentioned above, where the writer.
                                A. L. Wheeler. was born.
                  
                         the bags. The mill stood on the hill from seventy-five to
                        one hundred yards from the ford. The river had no bridge, but there was a footlog for
                        pedestrians.
                    At one time there had been quite a rain which turned to sleet. The river had risen rapidly. When
                        it was early morning, father attempted to go from the mill to the house. He started to walk the
                        foot-log, but, when he got out a way, he slipped off and went in head foremost. He got out and
                        hurried to the house as fast as he could. His clothes were frozen stiff, but he suffered no bad
                        effects from the ducking.
                    Shortly after I was born, a book was written by Hinton Rowan Helper of 
                            North Carolina
                         entitled, The Impending Crisis of the South. This book which
                        dealt with slavery was widely read by opponents of slavery in the North. The law makers of 
                            North Carolina
                         enacted a law making it a felony for one to have the volume in his possession, or
                        to circulate the book. I remember that my father had one of these books, but he always kept it
                        hidden. Father had a cousin by the name of Jesse Wheeler who, not being in favor of slavery,
                        circulated the book. The authorities found out about it and got the evidence against him. He was
                        apprehended and given the alternative of leaving the state or taking the consequences designated
                        by the law. He chose the former, left the state hurriedly with his family and located in 
                            Hendricks County
                        , Indiana, about 1860. Father, being in sympathy with Jesse, in order to help him in
                        his time of difficulty, put a tenant on his own farm which was seven miles from the farm of his
                        cousin. He then moved to the farm of this relative, Jesse Wheeler.
                    As time progressed, the situation became more acute and finally on one April day in 1861 a
                        neighbor, whom we called Uncle Joe Arm-field, came over. I remember that father was, plowing the
                        garden. Uncle Joe had received his county paper, the 
                            Greensboro
                         Patriot, which revealed the startling news that Fort Sumpter had been fired on.
                        Father and Uncle Joe were very much wrought up and the situation was a grave one. From this,
                        other things developed, the South actively organizing as large an army as could be raised.
                    My parents belonged to the Methodist Church, and when attending the services near the opening of
                        the War, the Minister prayed God to direct the bullets of the southern soldiers to the hearts of
                        their enemies. This was too much for my parents and they attended no more services, but joined
                        the Church of the Quakers or Friends, as father was opposed to war.
                    We were living on a public highway, and many soldiers and cavalrymen rode by on horseback. The 
                            North Carolina
                         Central Railroad ran through the farm5, and train load after
                        train load of soldiers passed over that line. There was quite a steep grade and the trains ran
                        slowly through the farm. Whenever we heard a train coming, most of us would go to the railroad
                        to see the soldiers pass. We children would throw them apples, and take branches that had a
                        number of small limbs, and break the ends off and stick apples on firmly, and then hold the
                        branches up so the soldiers could catch hold of the 
                     
                        5 The Jesse Wheeler farm.
                  
                         large end and thus get all of the apples that were stuck on
                        the branches. These poor fellows did not realize what was before them. They were a jolly, gay
                        bunch. The windows were full of heads and bodies and the platforms were crowded.
                    There was an elderly English miner by the name of Hart and his three sons boarding at my
                        father's. They had come south to work in a copper mine that was in operation less than
                        a mile from my father's place. Of course, they were in sympathy with the North. The
                        name of the old gentleman was Richard, the eldest son was Richard, Jr., then Mose and Thomas.
                    One day we heard a train load of soldiers coming, and all ran to the railroad to see them pass.
                        The soldiers were looking out of the windows and crowded down the car steps waving their caps
                        and hollowing, when Mose Hart ran up close to the track and yelled: "You better go back
                        home, you'll be killed. every son of a nipper of you." Mose also went to
                        Grensboro, the County Seat, one Saturday, where he talked in favor of the North, and the
                        officers were about to lock him up. Things had gotten into such a turmoil that Richard Hart and
                        his sons decided to go back to 
                            Pennsylvania
                         where they had formerly lived.
                    There was a local man by the name of Zimri Coffin who was radically in favor of the Southern
                        Confederacy. He was what we termed a "fire eater." He organized a company of
                        volunteers, and, in one of his speeches to stir up enthusiasm, he said that the War was only a
                        breakfast spell that would be over soon adding that the Yankees were cowards and would not
                        fight. He boasted that he could whip a half dozen Yankees with a barlow knife. "They
                        will just run." Someone took issue with him and said: "The Yankees are
                        ‘ bone of our bone and flesh of our flesh' and will fight the same as
                        Southern men." Among Zimri Coffin's volunteers was a man by the name of Harmon
                        Wade. He was poor and ignorant, and had the reputation wherever he was known of being the
                        biggest liar in the country. When he volunteered, some wag said: "If Harmon Wade woes
                        to the War, he will get shot in the mouth." Sure enough, it came out just as this
                        fellow predicted. However, his wound was not fatal. Some of the boys made up a song about Zimri
                        Coffins' Company, and I remember it started out like this: "Zimri Coffin, his
                        Brigade. He called for volunteers and got Harmon Wade. To the War, to the War, to the War we are
                        bound."
                    As the war progressed, the authorities finally confiscated the farm of my father's
                        cousin, Jesse Wheeler, and put it up and sold it to the highest bidder. A man by the name of
                        Weatherby, a slave owner from the eastern part of the state bought it. He wanted to get farther
                        away from the Yankees with his slaves, and thus as he thought, be more secure with them. My
                        father had to give possession of the farm to Weatherby, consequently he moved back to his own
                            farm.6 At the close of the War, the cousin returned to 
                            North Carolina
                         and his farm was restored to him, as the collapse of the Southern Confederacy
                        rendered the sale of the land void. On the return of Jesse Wheeler to 
                            North Carolina
                        , he was given the collectorship of internal revenue 
                     
                        6 The Starbuck farm.
                  
                         for that district Thus he was in a sense rewarded for the
                        hardships and privations that he underwent before and during the War.
                    About the time that my father moved back to his own farm, the southen authorities began drafting
                        men into the service. The section in which we lived, having a large citizenship of Friends, the
                        prevailing sentiment was with the North, and many of the young men were determined that they
                        would not go and fight the Yankees, as we southerners designated all northern people. When they
                        were not able to avoid service any longer, they would "take to the bushes."
                        They would hide out in the woods and caves, in old houses and barns and in the homes of their
                        friends. They had to depend on those in sympathy with them for food. My father gave them what he
                        made for two years or more. I have carried many baskets of food to the woods and to the barn for
                        the boys who were hiding out and hungry. Occasionally we would let them eat at the table, but as
                        a rule it was otherwise. I remember having stood out in the yard after dark, watching for the
                        approach of any one who might come and find the conscripts eating supper.
                    Such secrecy as we practiced in those days is unbelievable now. One illustration may be given. My
                        mother had a nephew, who, rather than go to the army, decided to try and make his way to the
                        North by going west through the mountains into 
                            Tennessee
                         as a way to get to the Yankees. However, before deciding to do this, he came to my
                        father and mother and asked them if they would conceal him about the premises some place and
                        give him food. Father told him that they could not do it, inasmuch as they were suspected of
                        feeding those that were hiding out and that they were being watched closely. If detected in
                        giving aid, father knew that he would either be shot or imprisoned. Then Oliver, as that was his
                        name, decided to try and go North. He left home with this thought, but after he had traveled two
                        or three nights alone, as it was not safe to travel by day in the thickly settled part of the
                        state, the weather turned cold and rainy. Then he decided to turn back and try some other plan.
                    It was a cold and rainy night and my Mother, as she has told me, was out in the kitchen alone
                        when someone tapped gently at the door. Mother, going to the door, found it to be Oliver and he
                        said in a whisper: "Aunt Liddy, let me in." She did take him in and put him in
                        what was called our wash-house, a neat log house detached from the other buildings with a narrow
                        passage between. This wash-house had a fireplace and an attic with a steep starway leading up.
                        She took Oliver to the attic of the wash-house, gave him dry clothing and food, and made a bed
                        on the floor for him. She did not say a word to father about what she had done, nor did he find
                        it out for six months.
                    Soon after Oliver left his home, his mother, Aunt Irena, as we called her, became ill. Mother,
                        thinking that she was worrying about Oliver, of whose whereabouts she was ignorant, decided to
                        go and see her. This she did, telling her that Oliver was safe in her wash-house attic. This
                        served as a good tonic, for Aunt Irena soon became well.
                    Another incident in the same connection occurred one day when Grandmother Macy was visiting at
                        our house. She, with my mother,  was sitting in front of the
                        fireplace in the wash-house, as they frequently worked out there. Grandmother turned her head
                        and looked up at the ceiling and said: "Lydia, I believe that thee has Oliver up in the
                        loft." Mother replied: "Well, if thee believe it, just go up and
                        see." Thus she turned the matter off, not even letting his grandmother know that he was
                        really concealed up there. In spite of my mother's precaution, various members of the
                        family found it out, one at a time. None of us would say anything to any other member of the
                        family about the matter. I remember how I found it out. One day, having as I thought some
                        business in the attic, I went up the steep stairway and sticking my head up, gazed toward the
                        west gable where there was a window, and Oliver, on a bed on the floor raised up on his elbow
                        and shook his head at me, so much as to say, "Don't tell anyone." His
                        hair was long and came down to his shoulders. The fact that he was concealed in the house was
                        kept from father for the sake of his peace of mind. Had he known that he was there, he would
                        have been uneasy all the time. Subsequently, the authorities made a ruling that Friends could be
                        relieved of serving in the army by the payment of $500.00. Uncle Jonathan Gordon paid
                        the $500 and Oliver was allowed his freedom.
                    During the war, prisoners, who were being moved from 
                     Richmond, Virginia
                  , to
                                
                     Salisbury, North Carolina
                  , were transported through the state via
                        the 
                            North Carolina
                         Central Railroad. My father lived about four miles from this road.7 During the latter part of the War a number of prisoners made their escape, and fourteen
                        of them came to my father's house at various times for help and information.
                    One by the name of E. J. Johnson from Twinsburg, 
                            Ohio
                        , was of especial interest and I will tell of some of his exploits later on. There
                        was one or possibly more from 
                            Wisconsin
                        . One in particular that I remember was a large young German about eighteen years
                        old who spoke quite broken English. His name was George Verhalon. There were two or more from
                        Indiana. Most of these were intent on getting back North, and the most feasible way was to go
                        through western 
                            North Carolina
                         into 
                            Tennessee
                         and from there eventually get to the Yankees.
                    There were a number of men who were loyal to the Union and they were well organized. My father,
                        as one of the conductors on the so-called underground railroad would, after taking them in and
                        feeding and cleaning them up and clothing them, conduct them to the next station located a
                        proper distance so that he could start after night and get back home before dawn. They were
                        passed from one person to the next, traveling after night until they got out of the thickly
                        settled part of the state. After reaching the mountains they would travel by day, going through
                        the mountains in the general direction they desired to go. One specific charge that their guides
                        tried to impress on them was, never to approach a white man for directions or help, unless they
                        had reason to believe that he was their friend. If they wanted aid they were to try to get in
                        contact with a negro. Colored men, as a rule, were ignorant, but they knew enough not to betray
                        those who appealed to them. Those who followed instructions usually reached the North safely.
                    
                  
                     7 That Is. he lived four miles from this railroad when on his own farm
                            (Starbuck farm), but the railroad ran through the Jesse Wheeler farm.
               
                    
                    My father was known to be a northern sympathizer, but he was guarded in his talk and said nothing
                        to create suspicion. However, the Raleigh Guard, as they were called, composed mostly of young
                        men or boys came and searched my father's premises for any who might be hiding to avoid
                        going into the southern army.
                    One afternoon, probably in September, when I was assisting my father to grind sorghum cane, I was
                        surprised as well as my father by some soldiers coming to the gate. The officer was on horseback
                        and the others on foot, six of them in all. On seeing them, I probably turned pale, but father
                        said: "Don't be uneasy, Alonzo, everything is alright at the house."
                        I knew that he meant by that no one was concealed there. This gave me great relief. The soldiers
                        came in the yard, surrounded the house and two of them went to the barn that was a hundred yards
                        or more away. The Captain came to the door where my mother met him. He said: "We came
                        to search your house." Mother replied: "Come in and search it." Two
                        of them came in and searched the house and two remained outside. After searching the downstairs,
                        they wanted to search above, and my mother asked: "Can I go with you?" They
                        answered: "Yes. We don't want to steal anything, though." Mother
                        said: "I didn't think you did, but maybe you won't see every nook and
                        corner." They really did not see every nook and corner" for there was an
                        attic, or loft, over the south porch that extended the length of the house, and we could have
                        had twenty persons concealed there and the searchers would not have found them had they kept
                        quiet.
                    The porch was ceiled overhead, thus making a loft, and a low door from a bedroom upstairs opened
                        into this porch attic. A bureau was placed against this low door, thus hiding it altogether. It
                        was a good thing that they did not find this attic, for there were some beds made on the floor
                        that had not been taken up. Soon after the men went to the barn, hey called to those at the
                        house for one of them to come to the barn.
                    After they had completed their search, and were ready to leave, my mother said to them:
                        ‘Why didn't you send us word that you were coming and we would have had a
                        good dinner for you. We'll get it yet, if you'll wait."
                        "Just as the Captain says," rejoined one man. "Why, yes,"
                        said the Captain, "this is the best place we've found yet." Mother
                        invited them into the house while she and my sisters got busy preparing a good meal, such as
                        fried chicken and gravy, hot biscuits, butter and honey, coffee and milk, and altogether a
                        splendid feast, which they enjoyed very much, as you can well imagine, after having had nothing
                        but the plain government rations recently.
                    When they were pretty well fed up, they became quite sociable and told the joke on themselves.
                        One of the men that went to the barn to search thought he had found someone. There was a shed
                        that had a how at the end of the barn. This shed was filled with wheat straw. Another boy and I
                        had dug a tunnel into this straw, starting near one end and coming out at the other. The men had
                        separated on searching the barn, and when one of them found this hole in the straw, he crawled
                        in to investigate. The second man, finding the entrance and not knowing that the first man was
                        crawling through the tunnel, but  hearing someone, called to
                        the house for additional help, as he thought he had found a suspect. The joke was on him, and he
                        told it when his appetite was being satisfied with good food. They remained and talked a bit
                        after they had eaten their meal. Then those on foot ran a race with the Captain on horseback. A
                        jolly, jovial bunch, their manner very different from what it was when they came, as then, they
                        were stern and unfriendly.
                    We heard later that they said they didn't find anyone at Old Wheeler's but they
                        believed they would keep them. It was a good thing for us that they did not come two or three
                        days sooner or they would have found E. J. Johnson in the house had he been where he usually
                        stayed during the day. My father had had a premonition that our house was going to be searched
                        and said to my mother: "Mother, I want Ed (that was what we called Mr. Johnson) to get
                        out of the house, for I feel as if our house is going to be searched." Consequently
                        that night Ed left and went to a settlement called Sandy Ridge about four miles away. The day
                        after he left, a neighbor living one and one-half miles away came over, and as an excuse,
                        brought a tin cup to have soldered, as my father was a tinner, one of his many occupations. This
                        neighbor told us that the Raleigh Guard was in a section not far from us, and that they might
                        come and search our house.
                    The blessed old lady had our welfare at heart, but everything had been made ready before her
                        warning. She was the wife of Nathan Gos-set, and I believe her name was Rachel. The man Johnson
                        was a shrewd, fearless, dare-devil sort of a fellow. Our house was near the middle of the farm
                        with a public road running east and west on the north side and another on the south side. In
                        fact both roads ran through my father's farm. We had driveways leading to both. There
                        was a man living south of us whose mother lived north of us and he would pass two or three times
                        each week within a few feet of our house, going to and from his mother's. This man was
                        a Rebel and held a commission as a kind of a militia officer. Johnson could see him from an
                        attic window when he would pass the house and became familiar with his looks.
                    Stuart was his name, and he had a fine revolver that Johnson decided he would like to have. So
                        going over to Stuart's one day, he inquired for the Captain, and his wife told him that
                        he was not at home but she was expecting him soon. Johnson told her that he was one of the
                        Raleigh Guard and that he wanted the Captain to go with him to Sandy Ridge to hunt conscripts.
                        He had not gone far on his way before Captain Stuart overtook him eager to accompany him to
                        Sandy Ridge to hunt for boys who might be hiding to evade going into the Confederate Army. As
                        they proceeded on their way and talked in an agreeable manner, Johnson commented on the
                        appearance of Stuart's nice looking revolver. Making other comments, Stuart,
                        unsuspectingly handed it to Johnson so that he might inspect it more closely. This he did,
                        keeping it for some minutes. When Stuart reached out his hand to receive it again, Johnson drew
                        back. When Stuart asked for the revolver, Johnson said: "This is just the kind of a gun
                        I've been wanting, and I guess I'll just keep it." Ohen Stuart
                        realized that he had been tricked, and began begging and pleading for his revolver, but Johnson
                        held it in his hand ready for action and said: "Now you go back home, or I'll
                        drop you in  your tracks. Don't you tell anybody
                        about this, for if you do, I'll kill you if I ever get a chance." So Stuart
                        was glad to go back home and let Johnson go on his way with his fine six-shooter.
                    Johnson came to my father's and recounted all of the experience and had the revolver to
                        show as proof. We listened for the story from Stuart but never heard of him telling it. Johnson
                        used to, when Stuart would pass by our house on going to his mother's, point the
                        revolver at him from the inside of an upstairs window. Of course, Stuart never saw him nor did
                        Johnson intend for him to. He aimed at the Captain just for the fun that he got out of the
                        thing.
                    My father made a public sale in the fall of 1864 preparatory to leaving the state. Such a thing
                        was almost unheard of, as conditions were such that nobody was leaving with his families.
                        Father's sale attracted much attention, and a large number came. Of course many of them
                        were strangers to us and to each other. Along in the morning when the house and yard were full
                        of people, Johnson came down the stairs in an unconcerned manner; moving around through the
                        crowd, he then walked off and nobody questioned his right to liberty. He told us that he would
                        be in Indiana by the time we got there.
                    In this, he was only partially correct. He did get to Indiana, but not until after we reached the
                        state. He started on his way North soon after my father's sale. When he reached the
                            Yadkin River early one morning, there was no way of getting across
                        other than to swim or find a skiff at the bank. On searching, he found a boat chained to the
                        bank which he loosened and got in. When well nigh across, there came up on the opposite bank
                        some home guards under the leadership of Captain Ogburn. Spying him they called to him to stop.
                        When he failed to do so, they shot at him. Fortunately, they missed him. As soon as Johnson
                        reached the opposite bank, he turned and fired at the Captain, whom he felled, but the shot was
                        not fatal and Captain Ogburn recovered.
                    Johnson made his way into the mountains which were not far away, and after a while he stopped at
                        a cabin and asked to stay over night. They took him in, and in due time sent him to bed in the
                        loft. Evidentally, they betrayed him, for in the night, some soldiers came and entered the house
                        and called: "You man up stairs, come down," and of course he could do nothing
                        else. When he came down they questioned him as to what he was doing. He said he was out scouting
                        and that he belonged to Wheeler's Division. They told him that he was a liar, for they
                        belonged to Wheeler's Division, and that he could go with them. They were cavalrymen
                        and he on foot. In the course of time they stopped at a country store and bought some whisky.
                        After drinking they offered the bottle to him, which he took and pretended to drink more than he
                        did. He became pretty sociable and as they rode on they drank more, which they shared with
                        Johnson. He pretended to become quite unsteady on his legs. They finally came to a mountani
                        stream and stopped to give their hoses water. While the horses were drinking, Johnshon shambled
                        up the stream and they called to him, asking where he was going. "Goin' uh up
                        heah to g-git ad-drink," he replied. He proceeded until they called him to halt. Then
                        he made a dive into the  shrubbery and ran for all his Life
                        was worth. He said if his legs ever did him good service, it was then. After running for some
                        distance, he fell over a forked tree that was on the ground, and the fall knocked the breath out
                        of him. He said that he could go no further, so he just rolled over into the crotch of the tree
                        and lay as flat as he could. He heard the men passing, but they were were unsuccessful in
                        finding him. He remained hidden until night then started on his journey. He would watch his
                        opportunity, and approach a negro, who would render help or a lone white man in case of
                        emergency.
                    Johnson finally made his way back North and visited my father's family in 
                            Hendricks County
                        . After his return to 
                            Ohio
                        , his native state, he was employed by Governor Foster as his private detective. He
                        had served for a time in Libby Prison, 
                     Richmond,
                                Virginia
                  , before coming to my
                        father's place in 
                            North Carolina
                        .
                    The prisoners that were moved through 
                            North Carolina
                         were, as a rule, loaded into box cars. They filled the cars and put a guard with a
                        gun at each door and of course, the guards could not see what was going on in the back ends of
                        the cars. The prisoners would make holes in the cars and when the train stopped a number would
                        crawl out. This is the way that some of them made their escape that came to my father's
                        house. They escaped at Jamestown, four miles from where he lived.
                    We had a number of experiences that were far from pleasant. At one time, two officers came and
                        took a team of young black mules that we prized very highly. The Government paid Confederate
                        money for them, but we did not want to part with them. One of my older sisters claimed the mules
                        and as the men were leading them away, this sister came out of the house and told them that she
                        wished that the rope they were leading them by was tied around each of their necks and thrown
                        over the top of a large oak tree that stood in the yard. Her anger only amused them, and they
                        just laughed at her. At another time, a man came and ordered my father to appear at a given
                        place at a time he mentioned with his team and feed and rations for ten days. After the man
                        served the notice, my father said: "I shall not come!" The man replied:
                        "You had better be there for if you are not, they will come and get your team and maybe
                        you will never get it again." Father said: "If they do, I can't help
                        it, but I shall not go." The man went on his way, and we never heard anything more
                        about it. The authorities evidently wanted to move some supplies and were short of
                        transportation facilities.
                    My father was planning to move to Indiana, or at least make an effort to get there. He was too
                        old to be a subject for conscription. I think the South finally made the age limit from fifteen
                        to forty-five or possibly fifty years. While our friends knew that we were planning to come to
                        Indiana the authorities did not. My father got two men of influence to assist him in getting a
                        passport from the Governor of the state to go to 
                            Virginia
                        . After making all preliminary arrangements, except exchanging all Confederate money
                        for specie, as we called it in those days (either gold or silver coin), father went to 
                            Greensboro
                        , the county seat, to the bank and gave twenty dollars of Confederate money for one
                        dollar of gold or silver, but mostly gold.
                    
                    The next thing was to plan some way so this money would be secure. My mother took new factory
                        cloth and cut strips and folded several thicknesses. Then she placed the coins on the cloth and
                        folded over, then ran stitches around each coin so it would remain in place. Thus she formed a
                        kind of a band or belt. Mother wore on of these belts of money, securely sewed around her body,
                        next to the skin, as did each of my sisters. Father carried only sufficient funds to pay
                        traveling expenses. Everything in readiness, about the first of October, 1864, a brother-in-law
                        to my father, came to our home in a large wagon and we were all loaded in. My father's
                        family numbered eight. There was also a widowed sister with four children, whose husband had
                        been drafted and killed in battle, and besides another woman whose husband was in the North,
                        fourteen in all.
                    I remember as a boy, I thought to myself as the wagon drove out of the gate, "Good-bye
                        old home." My uncle took us to 
                            Greensboro
                        , where we were to take the train for the eastern part of the state. We had to wait
                        quite a time. While we were there, they were moving some Yankee prisoners through the town. They
                        were a pitiful looking lot of humanity. It was after night and they seemed to be moving the
                        prisoners out to the Commons, preparatory to encampment for the night. I remember how tragic the
                        picture appeared by the lights such as they carried. The prisoners, ragged and dirty, were
                        driven and herded like dumb animals.
                    We got on the cars and traveled towards the northeastern part of the state going via Raleigh and
                        Weldon. We struck the 
                            Virginia state
                         line at or near Murphy's. This, as I remember, was as far as the train
                        ran. Anyway, the Confederate picket or outpost was located here, and when my father presented
                        his passport which gave permission to enter the state of 
                            Virginia
                        , or rather to leave 
                            North Carolina
                        , the Captain at first said: "I can't let you pass."
                        However, one of the men (Jonathan Harris by name) who had used his influence with Governor Vance
                        to get the passport for my father took the Captain to one side and talked with him privately.
                        Then the Captain turned and said: "You may go." My mother slipped a five
                        dollar gold piece into his hand, not as a bribe, for he had already told us that we could go,
                        but to express our appreciation. I suspect this was a surprise to him, for probably from our
                        appearance, he would not have expected us to have that much gold.
                    At the end of public transportation, we had to make our way the best we could. Father started out
                        to find some one to haul us to the place he wanted to reach. The country in this section of 
                            Virginia
                         had been pretty well devastated by the armies as it had been fought over. The
                        railroad had been torn up and the rails piled on log heaps and heated red hot then bent so they
                        could not be used again without being worked over. My father had informed himself before
                        starting as to just where he intended going.
                    In this territory or neutral ground between the Confederate and Union lines, was living a man by
                        the name of William Hare. He was a Friend or 
                            Quaker
                        . Father, instead of going to the place that he had designated, which was within the
                        Confederate lines, headed toward Suf-folks which was inside the Union lines at this time. He
                        hired a farmer,  who had not abandoned his home, to take us
                        on our way, and we were conveyed in a wagon and a two-wheeled cart, with some of us walking.
                    After going not so very far, probably four or five miles, we came to a river that they called
                        Blackwater. This stream had low banks and a deep channel and flowed slowly. We crossed on a
                        ferry that was operated by stretching a rope from one side to the opposite side, running the
                        rope through uprights on the boat, then pulling on the rope and drawing the boast across the
                        river. The ferryman told us that the river where we crossed was forty feet deep. To look at the
                        water, it seemed almost black, but, when one dipped up a cupful of it, it was practically clear.
                    This section was the first place where I had ever seen wells having sweeps with poles and buckets
                        to elevate the water. Most of the conveyances were two-wheeled carts each drawn by a mule with a
                        wooden saddle or buckets on his back and a chain attached to the shafts of the cart and over the
                        mule's back.
                    We finally reached the home of William Hare, and on inquiry were told that the train would not
                        come out to the Yankee pickets for a week, as it only came out from 
                            Portsmouth
                         once each week, so we had to wait until the next week.
                    Fortunately Hare had formerly had a neighbor living close by, by the name of Cox. This man, on
                        account of so much fighting and the unsettled conditions, had moved away and abandoned his farm
                        for the time being, although he had a good house and good improvements. Hare told us that we
                        could sleep in Cox's house and that he could let us have something to eat. We had
                        sufficient bedding to get along with, and we got food from the Hare family. All that were old
                        enough to do any work took hold and did what they could. Father worked in the blacksmith shop
                        and my mother and sisters did the washings, while we children picked peas and did any other work
                        as we could. All tried to do something to help along. While spending the week here, we could
                        hear the roar of the cannon towards Petersburg and 
                            Richmond
                        . Grant and Lee were having a hot time there. One morning while stopping at the Cox
                        house, I remember we had a white frost.8
               
                    The day finally came when Hare loaded us into his wagons and started for the Yankee pickets. In
                        the course of time, we reached the picket line which was, if I had the directions right, a short
                        distance west of Suffolk.9 When we reached the pickets, a number of soldiers
                        gathered around and my mother told them how happy we were to see them and that we had been
                        wanting to see the Yankees for a long time, and now we had reached them. The soldiers stood
                        around with their eyes and ears open, somewhat amused no doubt, as my mother made them a short
                        speech, telling them who we were and where we were from. They put us in charge of a soldier who
                        put us on the train, took us to 
                            Portsmouth
                         and there put us in charge of the Sanitary Commission, where we remained over
                        night.
                    The next morning we went across to Norfolk,10 where our baggage was searched
                        and all the adults took the Oath of Allegiance to the 
                     
                        8 This was in the early fall of 1864.
                     
                        9
                                
                           Suffolk, Virginia
                         is about sixteen miles southwest of
                            Norfolk.
                  
                        
                        
                            United States
                         Government. We then took passage on a steamboat on the Chesapeake Bay and came up
                        to 
                            Baltimore
                        . There we got on the cam and came to 
                            Hancock County
                        , Indiana. My father had a brother-in-law by the name of Dix Coffin, who came to
                        this state several years before the War, living southeast from 
                            Greenfield
                        . We got off the cars at 
                            Charlottesville
                        , Indiana.11 Of course, Uncle Dix had no intimation that we were
                        coming, as there was practically no communication between the North and the South in those
                        times. So when father, who had walked to Uncle Dix's to get a wagon to convey the
                        balance of us, made his appearance and told who he was, they could not have been much more
                        surprised had someone come from another plannet. Those of us who were left at the railroad
                        station finally got tired of waiting for the wagon, so some who were the most able to walk
                        started walking towards Uncle Dix's. When we had gone some distance, we met the wagon
                        coming for use, but we proceeded and reached Uncle's house before the wagon.
                    Such hospitality as was extended us! There was a pretty good sized family of the Coffins and when
                        fourteen more were added that made a lot of mouths to be fed, but we were all made to feel
                        welcome and we had plenty of the very best of food. I then became acquainted with the boy,
                        ‘who afterwards was known as Dr. Coffin, and I was always fond of him.
                    We remained with Uncle Dix a week or more as I remember. In the meantime, my father took his gold
                        and silver to Bettle Hills Bank at 
                            Carthage
                        , in 
                            Rush County
                        , and exchanged it for greenbacks, getting $2.75 for one dollar in
                        specie. The North had not yet won the War and there was still some doubt in the minds of some as
                        to what the ultimate result would be.
                    My father went out to Amo12 in 
                            Hendricks County
                         and bought an eighty acre farm adjoining his cousin, Jesse Wheeler, who, as I have
                        told you, left 
                            North Carolina
                         just before the War. I remember that we reached Am on the evening of the November
                        election, the day that Abraham Lincoln was re-elected for the second term. Those were stormy
                        days politically.
                    It looks strange now that only seventy years ago there was such a large number of persons who
                        justified slavery and the system of slavery. Looking at it from our standpoint, we
                        don't see how they could. Speaking from my observations as a boy, you could say
                        something for both sides.
                    In the section from which I came, there were not many persons owning a large number of slaves,
                        but mostly from half a dozen to a dozen, sometimes more and sometimes fewer. As a rule, these
                        slaves were treated with consideration and care, had plenty of suitable food, and if sick, were
                        given medical aid, and frequently there was quite an attachment formed. It was the large
                        slaveowners on the sugar and cotton 
                     
                        10
                                
                                    Portsmouth
                                 is separated from Norfolk by a sort of arm of Chesapeake Bay, the arm, or
                                wide river mouth, extending southward from the mouth of the James
                                River.
                     
                        11
                                
                                    Charlottesville
                                 is a town on the National Road. It is in eastern 
                                    Hancock County
                                 near the 
                                    Henry County
                                 line.
                     
                        12 Amo is a village in 
                                    Hendricks County
                                 about nine miles southwest of 
                                    Danville
                                 on the 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Railroad and abut sixteen miles from 
                                    Greencastle
                                .
                  
                         plantations further south where so much cruelty and abuse
                        was practiced.
                    My father, as I remember, had two negroes on different occasions, hired from their masters. The
                        first one was owned by a Methodist preacher. The slave's name was Alec Clinard. I
                        became strongly attached to him. He had a separate room close to the house where he slept and
                        spent his evenings.
                    There were some free negroes living near our home. One was a widow named Patsy Ellis. She had
                        three sons, named Tom, Dick and Pomp. They were all good banjo pickers. Occasionally one and
                        sometimes two of the would come over and spend the evening with Alec, and they would sing and
                        pick the banjo. I enjoyed going to Alec's quarters to hear them. When Ale& year
                        was up and he left my father's employment, I hated so badly to see him go.
                    A year or two later father employed a colored man by the name of Preston Mendenhall. This slave
                        belonged to Delphina Mendenhall, a cultured 
                            Quaker
                         woman. The Mendenhalls had planned to free all of their slaves, but laws were
                        enacted so they could not liberated within the slave state of 
                            North Carolina
                        , and the War came on before they could take them to a free state to set them free.
                        Preston was also a nice moral negro, and I liked him very much. His quarters were in a house
                        across the road from our dwelling. I used to go over and spend the evenings with him and teach
                        him to spell and read, but I later head that it was against the law to teach a negro how to do
                        these things.
                    On one Saturday afternoon, Preston had been to the Mill and it was late when he returned home.
                        After taking care of the horses, he came over to the house hurriedly and all excited, saying
                        that someone had stolen all of his clothes. On investigation, we found that someone had been in
                        his quarters and had taken all of his Sunday clothes from the chest where he kept them. They had
                        raised the lid and gathered everything in their arms and gone out the back door, leaving it
                        open. We found a necktie on the ground that had been dropped. Suspicion at once fell on a
                        colored man who had spent Saturday night with Preston only a week or two before this.
                    This fellow was a laborer on the railroad, one of a section crew. The section house or quarters
                        was down the railroad a couple of miles, so on Sunday morning, father started out with Preston
                        to find his clothes. They went to the section house and, on inquiry, learned that the negro in
                        question had gone to 
                            Greensboro
                        . They waited until nearly time for his return, then started down the track towards 
                            Greensboro
                        . They had not gone far when they saw the Negro coming. One of them climbed out of
                        the deep cut, got back from the bank and proceeded towards the negro. After he had passed him,
                        he then climbed down the bank to the track, thus one was behind and one in front of the Negro.
                        When they came up to him, sure enough, he was wearing Preston's Sunday cloths. Preston
                        was so angry that he took hold of him and gave him a good shaking and wanted to give him a
                        beating, but this job was left for the section foreman.
                    When a negro went any place for pleasure, to be gone any distance or length of time, he would
                        have to carry a pass from his owner or employer, otherwise, he was liable to be taken up by the
                        patrol (usually  called patterroll), and, if'
                        unable to give a satisfactory account of himself, was flogged and turned loose.
                    I made allusion further back in this sketch to the attachment that often existed between slaves
                        and their owners or children of their owners, and also of the care the slaves received. As an
                        illustration, though this probably was an exception, my father had a cousin who owned some
                        slaves, less than a dozen, I think. Old Aunt Mary was the "mammy" and the
                        cook. The cooking was done in the negro quarters, separate from the dwelling of the whites.
                        These Negroes always got the same quality of food that the whites ate. Aunt Mary would keep back
                        a part for her own people, just as good as the white folks had. The owners of these Negroes were
                        radical Southerners, and, at the outbreak of the War, owing to political disagreement, this
                        family and my father's family broke friendly relations. It was told us after the close
                        of the War that Union soldiers came to the home, and compelled the mistress and her daughters to
                        prepare food for them; then required them to eat of the food before the soldiers partook as a
                        guarantee that it was not poison. It was reported that this woman had said that she would rather
                        have her throat cut than be taken by the Yankees.
                    Soon after the close of the War, my mother made a visit back to the South and on interviewing an
                        old colored woman she asked her how she enjoyed her freedom, and she received the following
                        reply: "Oh honey, I neveh had a care while I was with mastah and missus. Always plety
                        to eat and wear and if any of us got sick, we had a doctah. But now it's diffrunt. But
                        you knows, honey, dat de birds of de air lak freedom." So we see the sentiment was not
                        all on one side.
                    I have written these sketches from memory after a lapse of over seventy years. In the fall of
                        1935, not having seen my old state for over thirty years, I decided to go back and view may
                        native land, as it were. I had heard much said of 
                            North Carolina
                        , of developments and improvements that had been made, but to make this more
                        impressive, I had to see it with my own eyes. The roads, to start with, are simply marvelous,
                        especially the improved roads and roads adjacent to towns, and many modern homes have been
                        built. What formerly consisted of one farm is now cut up into various tracts or homesteads, and,
                        while their soil in the main will not produce like Indiana soil, even the farmers seem to be
                        getting along fairly well. The southern people have an element of thrift that we of the North
                        seem to lack in a measure, I fear.
                    In recording this story of what transpired when I was a boy, I have endeavored to deal with facts
                        and have not overdrawn the picture. I have written a record of these incidents at the
                        solicitation of my sons. Never having gone into the details of my early life with them, for the
                        reason, I suppose, that I was always too busy, I have now tried to respond to their request.
                        Knowing that I shall not be here many years longer at most, I want to leave to all who may be
                        interested, some account of my early years, especially of the trying years of the Civil War in 
                            North Carolina
                        .
                
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               Sons of the Wilderness: John and William Conner. By Charles N. Thompson. Indiana
                    Historical Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1937. Pp. ix, 283.
            This volume, Indiana Historical Society Publications, XII, as the
                    "Foreword" tells us, was written as a memorial to the author's wife,
                    Julia Conner Thompson, of most pleasant memory to the members of the Society of Indiana Pioneers.
                    Mrs. Thompson was a great-granddaughter of John Conner and a great-grandniece of William Conner. She
                    felt that the efforts and influence of her pioneer ancestors should be better understood, and their
                    characters, deeds and public service entitle them to the recognition which this volume accords. Mrs.
                    Thompson, before her lamented death in 1928, had collected some materials on the Conners, and she
                    became the inspiration for the worthy achievement of her husband in the production of this volume.
            Mr. Thompson's interest in the early life of Indiana was promoted by his activities in the
                    Society of Indiana Pioneers, of which Society he was the honored President for many years. He is a
                    graduate of DePauw University, a member of the American Historical Association, of the
                        Mississippi Valley Historical Association, and of the Indiana Historical
                    Society. He has been an intelligent reader of history. He is a lawyer, who approaches the writing of
                    history like a trained historical student. As he knows the principles of evidence in a court of law,
                    so he understands the difference between tradition and historical evidence. He knows the difference
                    between "hearsay" and the documentary evidence upon which all true history is
                    based—a distinction frequently illustrated in the pages of his book. Any conclusion which
                    he draws from tradition is given only on the law of probability, and herein lies the historical
                    value of this volume.
            Mr. Thompson's work gives us more than the personal, pioneer life of the Conners. It records
                    more than a hundred years of the history of the frontier as influenced by European policies and
                    Indian affairs. From birth to mature manhood, the Conners lived among the Indians. They came to know
                    their customs, manners, and several of their languages, and they came to be trusted interpreters of
                    the 
                        United States
                     in making Indian treaties. They married among the Indians and raised
                         half-breed families. Later they broke off their Indian ties
                    and affiliated with their own race and became potent factors in the growth of early Indiana, as
                    legislators, road-makers, town-builders, merchants, farmers, and men of affairs. 
                        Connersville
                     and 
                        Noblesville
                     owe their beginnings to the Conners.
            To lead to an understanding of these frontier lives, the author found it necessary to examine the
                    historical background of the Ohio Valley for more than a century. He makes
                    known the distribution of Indian tribes in 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana, and describes the work of the early Moravian Missions among the Indians.
                    He strikes the high points in Northwestern history from 1750 to the battle of Fallen Timbers in 1794
                    and the Treaty of Greenville of the following year. The father of these pioneers, Richard Conner,
                    "was in the heart of the 
                        Ohio country
                     from 1767 to 1782; their mother, Margaret Boyer, was from childhood a captive of the
                    Shawnee Indians. These parents of John and William were preserved to become two of the earliest
                    settlers of central Indiana. Thus they figured in the great struggle between Indian civilization and
                    the oncoming tide of the white race.
            Richard Conner and Margaret Boyer, the long lost captive girl of Lehigh Gap, were married in a small
                    Indian village in a trackless wilderness. David Zeisberger, the devoted Moravian missionary, appears
                    upon the scene. He founds the town of Schoenbrunn ("Beautiful Spring"). Here was
                    established the first Protestant church in America west of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     (1772), and here was the first school house in the 
                        United States
                     north and west of the 
                        Ohio
                    .
            The story is told of how the Moravians, who formed a Christian settlement of pious men, were
                    dispossessed of their settlement and holdings and carried to 
                        Detroit
                     for trial for anti-British activities, a charge on which they were acquitted. We read
                    how ninety Christian Indians were foully murdered by 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     militia, which reminds us that there were frequent provocations for Indian forays and
                    massacres.
            In 1803, John Conner visited 
                        Washington
                    , where he met President Jefferson. He saw better ways of living, and from this time it
                    was his intention to ally himself with the forces of organized society. He acquired land in a region
                    where the Indian title had been extinguished. His store in the Whitewater
                    valley became a landmark for Indians and settlers. He  became one of the principal fur traders in all the region round about. He knew the prices of
                    skins and how they were dressed—the beaver, otter, raccoon, mink, muskrat, skunk,
                    wildcat, martin, panther, deer, and bear—and from these sources he acquired a measurable
                    affluence in wordly goods.
            The Conners knew the secrets of the forests. The tracks of beasts, the flight of birds, the changing
                    colors of woods and waters, all had meaning for them. The boys left the settled life of agriculture
                    for the more open life of the Indian trapper and trader. They preferred the western wilderness to
                    the "sodden centres", or forts, like Pittsburg and 
                        Detroit
                    . The results of their lives vindicated their choice. The volume tells us of the
                    splendid Indiana woods—made up of walnut, poplar, maple, oak, linden, cherry, sycamore,
                    and other specimens. The soil had been fertilized for centuries by the decomposing of
                    vegetation—nature had been enriching the earth.
            General Harrison, the Territorial Governor, in his treaty-making with the Indians for land cessions,
                    realized that he must have for scouts and interpreters men of integrity an judgment. The Conners
                    were at hand. The services they rendered were noteworthy. Their influence over the Delawares in
                    keeping them loyal to the government relieved General Harrison of much trouble.
            A chapter is given to the Ohio Valley in the war of 1812. After that war, a tide
                    of immigration began pouring into Indiana Territory. In 1812, there were not 35,000 people there. By
                    the end of 1815 there were over 63,000, and the territory was ready for statehood. This immigration
                    came from 
                  Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, Virginia, Kentucky
               , and the Carolinas. These people had heard of the defeat of the
                    Indians and their British allies at 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and at the Thames, and they knew that the white settlements were safer in the
                    Northwest: 
                        They are coming with their wives and children their baggage and their cattle, in wagons and
                            on foot, on horse back across mountains end plains, on rafts down the 
                                Ohio
                            . There are native Americans and European immigrants, for the most part
                            substantial people, sober, industrious, kindly, democratic. Some are Quakers and practically
                            all, even those from the southern States, are opposed to slavery.
                    
            
            Counties were being organized and towns were rising. An immigrant asked to be directed to 
                        Connersville
                    . "My friend, you are right in the heart of the town", said John Conr
                    ner, who was engaged in building his cabin.
            
            John Conner was elected from 
                        Franklin
                     county to the first State Senate, 
                        Fayette County
                     not having yet been laid out. He rode horseback over the trace to Corydon, when
                    "three notches on a tree" indicated the highway. We have a description of Corydon
                    and the conditions in the new state at that time. John Conner became the first sheriff of 
                        Fayette County
                    . His interests were now chiefly local. He became interested in better roads, in
                    libraries and seminaries, which indicated how his mind was broadening. He came to know such
                    political leaders as James Noble, William Hendricks, and Jonathan Jennings,
            The career of William Connor is also told in detail. These men 
                        were courageous in the midst of danger, they were impervious to physical
                            discomforts… they knew when to be silent and when to speak. The wisdom of their
                            counsel had been proved more than once. they had been a significant economic factor in the
                            lives of the Delawares, for with other traders they had provided a market for furs and in
                            return had supplied articles necessary to the personal comfort and satisfaction of the
                            Indians. They had influenced this peaceful tribe against participation in war….
                            It is probably true that they charged the Indians high prices for their merchandise, and
                            undoubtedly they exchanged whisky for their furs. That was the custom of all Indian traders.
                            Currency was little used as a medium of exchange. Goods, trinkets, and liquor met this need.
                            They gave no credit.
                    
            
            
               
                        Connersville
                     settlers went to the 
                        Noblesville
                     area. It took nineteen days to make the trip with ox teams. Wolves and wildcats killed
                    their domestic animals. The transition from village life to forest life came hard. They suffered
                    from ague and fever. Travel was hard. What was thought to be a road turned out to be a furrow of
                    mud, then a trace for foot travelers. Taverns were infrequent. The night silence was pierced by the
                    hooting of owls and the howling of wolves. Such was life as experienced by the early pioneer.
            In William Conner's cabin, the Commissioners met. They were charged with the task of
                    choosing a site for the new state capital in 1820. A full account of their work is given. 
                        Tipton
                     tells in his Journal of "the landing of the first boat that
                    ever was seen at the seat of government."
            The half-breed children of William Conner, six of them, went with their mother when the Delawares
                    left Indiana for 
                        Missouri
                     and 
                        Oklahoma
                    . These children shared in the activities and prosperity of their new country. They
                    re-visited  Indiana and gave testimony to the fair dealing and
                    high character of the Conners. Similar testimony was given by men of prominence among Indiana
                    pioneers.
            William Conner now married Elizabeth Chapman, a white girl thirty years younger than he, though he
                    was yet more Indian than white from experience. He was turning a new page in his life, coming back
                    to his own race. Long years of his life were ending, a new life was beginning. There was no
                    honeymoon nor wedding trip. The bride and groom ferried across White River, or
                    forded it, and rode horseback to Conner's cabin.
            Mr. Thompson describes William Conner's new house, the fine brick mansion of 1823. After
                    this house had fallen into some decay, it was bought and restored in 1935 by Dr. Eli Lilly,
                    President of the Indiana Historical Society. There is a fireplace in each room, upstairs and down,
                    and cupboards with dishes and glassware of the Conner era. The house is now a landmark in central
                    Indiana, for which thanks are due to Mr. and Mrs. Lilly and Mr. Thompson.
            Mr. Thompson mentions, though he does not credit, the tradition that James Fenimore Cooper visited
                    Conner in his Indiana home in a search for Indian lore. Governor Cass of 
                        Michigan
                     felt that Cooper was "gilding" the Indian character, and he wrote an
                    article for the North American Review "bent on destroying this romantic
                    conception of savage lifequot;. Cass directed Charles C. Trowbridge of 
                        Michigan
                    , to visit Conner, whom Trowbridge found to be "an intelligent gentleman and an
                    excellent interpreter." At that time, 
                        Indianapolis
                     had a population of 300. Trowbridge found wheat selling at twenty-five cents a bushel
                    and corn at from six to ten cents. "The Indians", said Trowbridge,
                    "supplied us all winter with turkeys at six cents eachquot;. Such were other aspects of the
                    frontier.
            Professor Baynard R. Hall was a guest of William Conner in his mansion home. The writer of this
                    review edited the 
                        Princeton
                     edition of Hall's New Purchase more than twenty years ago.
                    If he had known then as much about the Conners as this book reveals, he would have corrected the
                    "Key" by identifying "Redwhite" with William Conner instead of
                    John; and he might have added a note of caution to the reader to beware of Hall's
                    extravagance in his description of the feast which he enjoyed in Conner's home.
            William Conner was a part of the early movement for  the
                    improvement of common schools in Indiana. In 1831 there was a convention in 
                        Indianapolis
                     of the "friends of educationquot;. Conner was associated in this cause with
                    well known men of the time—David Wallace, Stephen C. Stevens, Ratliff Boon, Samuel
                    Merrill, Calvin Fletcher, John Law, William W. Wick, Oliver H. Smith, John Wishard, Isaac Coe, John
                    Tipton, and Jesse H. Holman. In 1833 the "Association for the Improvement of Common
                    Schools" met at 
                        Madison
                    , with Senator William Hendricks presiding. President Andrew Wylie of Indiana College
                    was there, along with Miles Eggleston and Benjamin Parke. A committee appointed to nominate new
                    members recommended that eleven be chosen from different parts of the state; among these were
                    Governor Noble and James M. Ray of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , James Whitcomb of Blooming-ton, afterwards Governor and 
                        United States
                     Senator, and William Conner of 
                        Hamilton
                     county.
            In politics, William Conner was first a National Republican and then a Whig. He was a delegate from 
                        Hamilton County
                     to a state convention of 
                        Clay
                     "National Republicans", in November, 1831. The author notices the
                    "national convention of Anti-masons in 1831", followed some months later
                    "by a convention of the National Republicans supporting 
                        Clay
                    ", and, in May, 1832, by a "Democratic national convention [that]
                    nominated Van Burenquot;. To the unknowing reader this may be misleading. The author means that Van
                    Buren was nominated for Vice President in 1832. No convention nomination was
                    necessary for Jackson; he was accepted by the party and the country as the presidential nominee
                    before the convention met.
            In 1837, William Conner began closing his career as legislator and fur trader. He sold his large
                    collection of fur to the American Fur Company. He helped in the project of a railroad from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Noblesville
                    , which succeeded in running a train over the distance of twenty-two miles in an hour
                    and a half. William Conner owned 3,000 acres of good land, including tracts in several counties. He
                    died on August 28, 1855.
            John Conner had died in 1826. His funeral sermon was preached by the Rev. George Bush of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , "a scholarly and eccentric Presbyterian minister." Bush was one of
                    the characters in Hall's New Purchase. He went to 
                        New York
                     and became a Swedenborgian.
            
            Of William Conner, we are told that he was "a large man, straight as an arrow, with a homely
                    sense of humor and justice; wholly self-educated; of kindly disposition; generous to his friends and
                    to strangers; implacable to his few enemies—an Indian characteristic; held in popular
                    esteem; modest, seldom spoke of his life's adventures, committed nothing to
                    paper." He lived forty-seven years with the Indians, and was not detached from that life
                    until 1820.
            The volume contains a map of early 
                        Indianapolis
                    , with a "Key", indicating public and private buildings. There is a
                    good index and a bibliography that is extensive, if not exhaustive. The author, like a careful
                    student, cites the authorities for his statements, and many of them are authorities that are
                    original and rare. These citations and notes are not in footnotes but are in the
                    "appendix," and, in many cases, they contain very interesting
                    reading—as interesting as that in the body of the text itself. This is saying a good
                    deal, as the volume is written in clear, concise, readable English, with a narrative of continuous
                    interest. The whole book with its inviting topics will prove especially attractive to all who have
                    any interest in the frontier life of early Indiana. The volume is a credit not only to its author
                    but to the Indiana Historical Society which has many valuable publications on its list. For this,
                    its latest production, and one of its best, we owe Mr. Thompson a debt of gratitude.
            JAMES ALBERT WOODBURN.
         
         
            
               Oliver Pollock: The Life and Times of an Unknown Patriot. By James Alton James.
                    D. Appleton-Century Company, 
                        New York
                    , 1937. Pp. 376, illustrated, $4.00.
            Though the life of Oliver Pollock has come from the press not long after the
                    retirement of Dean James from active teaching in Northwestern University, it can hardly be called a
                    fruit of his retirement. He has been collecting material and writing about Pollock for many years.
                    It dovetails into his Life of George Rogers Clark and his two volumes of George Rogers Clark Papers. It stands side by side with these other books as a
                    notable contribution to our understanding of the American Revolution in the West.
            Oliver Pollock, while not entirely an unknown patriot, has not hitherto received the recognition to
                    which the importance of his work entitles him; he has neither been the  subject of adequate historical writing nor has he been commemorated in
                    public memorials. This explains, and I think justifies, Professor James' tendency
                    throughout the book to cap accounts of Pollock's activities with reiterations of his
                    patriotism, importance, and high character.
            The story of Pollock's services in the American cause did in fact need telling, and
                    Professor James has told it with scrupulous exactness, as well as with appreciation. Much of
                    Pollock's work in 
                        New Orleans
                     was crowned with success. He sent supplies, including valuable military material, not
                    only to George Rogers Clark and other soldiers in the West, but to the American armies in eastern
                    centers of operation. He financed the Revolution to such an extent that he ought to be ranked with
                    Robert Morris, his partner in trade, as an essential factor in keeping the Revolution going. He was
                    also one of the key men in securing the cooperation of 
                        Spain
                     in the Mississippi Valley and on the Gulf of Mexico. His relations
                    with the Spanish authorities at 
                        New Orleans
                    , General Alejandro O'Reilly of 
                        New Orleans
                     and, after him, Governor Bernardo de Galvez, Governor of 
                        Louisiana
                    , counted for a great deal in maintaining the American cause. At the same time, his
                    relations with the Spanish, far from misleading him into giving them advantages in the
                        Mississippi Valley which would have been disastrous to the Americans, were
                    exploited with an eye single to the interests of the American nation.
            It was the tragedy of Pollock's career, as of the career of George Rogers Clark and many
                    other patriots, that he neither had resources nor received support sufficient to carry his work and
                    his plans through to the complete success which seemed to be almost within his reach. After he had
                    been drawn upon for supplies and money till his credit was exhausted, after he had appealed time and
                    time again in vain for means to sustain and rehabilitate his credit, he was faced with fresh demands
                    which he could not meet. Thus the cause which he promoted broke him and at the same time failed of
                    complete success. The Americans in the West failed to reach 
                        Detroit
                     at the north, or 
                        Florida
                     at the south. In the latter part of the war it was left for 
                        Spain
                    , to seize Mobile and Pensacola, and, in the treaty of peace, to get possession for a
                    generation of East and West 
                        Florida
                    .
            Professor James has included in his life of Oliver Pollock most of the story of
                    George Rogers Clark in the War of the  American Revolution. Like
                    his life of Clark, this volume is almost a history of the Revolutionary War in the West. His
                    conclusion upon the question "The Northwest: Conquest or Gift?" which was raised
                    years ago by Clarence W. Alvord's thesis that the Earl of Shelburne virtually gave the
                    Northwest to the 
                        United States
                     in the negotiations for peace, is answered in a chapter by that title which emphasizes
                    above all other elements "the accomplishments of Clark, impossible without the
                    contributions of Pollock." Apropos the French and Spanish expeditions of 1780 and 1781
                    against Miamitown (
                        Fort Wayne
                    ) and Saint Joseph (near 
                  Niles, Michigan
               ) there is an interesting question as to
                    the site at which the raiders from Cahokia, who pillaged Saint Joseph in 1780, were cut down.
                    Professor James follows Edward G. Mason and Alvord in saying "near 
                        Chicago
                    ." An official contemporary English version was that it was beyond (southwest
                    of) the RiviGre du Chemin, at la Petite Fort. Some early nineteenth century maps call Trail Creek
                    which flows into Lake Michigan at 
                        Michigan City
                    , RiviBre du Chemin, and local tradition puts la Petite Fort in 
                        Porter County
                     near the present entrance to Dunes State Park. Professor James attaches some weight,
                    though not over much, to the evidence that these expeditions looked toward Spanish claims to land
                    east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Professor James has given us a much needed and the only authoritative account of
                    Oliver Pollock. Much new material has been brought to light. The preface states that he plans to
                    publish in separate volumes (as was done in the study of George Rogers Clark) contemporary material
                    relating to Pollock and Clark, throwing new light upon the significance of the events of the
                    Revolution that occurred west of the Allegheny Mountains.
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN.
         
         
            
               The Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        , V, The Territory of 
                            Mississippi
                        , 179–817. Compiled and edited by Clarence Edwin Carter, Department
                    of State, 
                        Washington
                    , 1937. Pp. vi, 815, $1.50.
            Papers comprising Volume V of the Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        
                relate to the Territory of 
                        Mississippi
                     (including the present state of 
                        Alabama
                    ), from the time of its creation in 1798, with Winthrop Sargent as governor, to the end
                    of the administration of Acting Governor Thomas H.  Williams in
                    June, 1809. Volume VI will carry the publication of the 
                        Mississippi
                     territorial papers to the end of 1817, when the territory became a state. The material
                    published is "drawn principally from the Archives of the Departments of State, Treasury,
                    War, Interior, and Post Office, the Manuscripts Division of the Library of Congress, and the Senate
                    and House files in 
                        Washington
                    , D. C."
            As in Volumes II and III of the series, containing the papers relating to the "Territory
                    Northwest of the River Ohio", emphasis has been placed on questions of
                    administration and land claims, surveys, and settlement. Students of Indiana history will find many
                    of the problems of administration comparable to those which arose contemporaneously in Indiana
                    Territory. Among these, were the effective adaptation of laws enacted for specific states to the
                    needs of a new territory; the provision of adequate courts; the development of a mail service; the
                    extended absences from the territory of governors and judges; the interruptions in government caused
                    by the death or resignation of officers and the long intervals necessarily devoted to carrying the
                    news of such vacancies to the seat of government, securing the appointment of new officers, and
                    transporting them to their posts.
            A letter from Secretary of State Pickering to Andrew Ellicott, commissioner to fix the boundary
                    between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Spain
                    , indicates the painful need for the establishment of roads and post routes and makes
                    entirely clear why the inhabitants of the territory sometimes felt themselves forgotten by the
                    Federal government. Pickering wrote on August 30, 1798: "Your want of tents, as announced
                    in your letter of April 1st (recd June 11th) had escaped my attention, until your
                    letter of June 19th (recd 24th August) reminded me of it: I will give immediate
                    orders for making and forwarding them."
            Among the papers are a number of hitherto unpublished letters of Thomas Jefferson, and letters of the
                    different secretaries. There are printed the acts relating to the formation of the territory and its
                    land system, petitions from the citizens and legislature to Congress (It seemed to be the fate of
                    these prayerful documents to reach 
                        Philadelphia
                     after the adjournment of Congress, lie over until the next session, and result in the
                    enactment of laws which were already outmoded by the time they reached the territory, thus
                    necessitating new  petitions which followed the same melancholy
                    schedule), letters from the governors and secretaries, from the judges, occasional letters relating
                    to Indian and military affairs, and petitions from merchants who had difficulty in getting their
                    goods into the country without double payment of duties. Opposing political factions are well
                    illustrated.
            Many papers deal with the complicated French, Spanish, and British claims that had to be settled
                    before the 
                        United States
                     could begin disposing of lands, the group of claims under 
                        Georgia
                    's act of cession, the differences in interpretation of the general laws in
                    different districts of the territory, and the problem of opening unclaimed lands under a system
                    liberal enough to prevent inhabitants from moving into Spanish territory. Writing of the solictitude
                    of the people on these matters, Secretary Thomas H. Williams said, in 1805, that it was "a
                    Subject on which hang if not all their affections, at least all their anxieties." Judge
                    Thomas Rodney wrote about the same time: "The Land business here has certainly been much
                    more Troublesome and Difficult than Congress apprehended—The Testimony required to
                    establish different Claims has put the people to great Trouble difficulty and Exyence—and
                    has produced great delay beyond what Congress seems to have contemplated."
            In addition to the large body of well-selected papers printed, readers will find careful and
                    voluminous citations to other 
                        Mississippi
                     materials published by the 
                        Mississippi
                     Department of Archives and History or other agencies. The Index is excellent. Each
                    volume of Territorial Papers that appears increases one's eagerness for the publication of
                    the volume on Indiana. It will be Volume VII and is scheduled to appear this year.
            NELLIE ARMSTRONG.
         
         
            
               American Frontier. By Elizabeth Peck. Doubleday, Doran and Company,
                            
                  Garden City, New York
               . Pp. ix, 195.
            This little volume is made up of a series of poems relating to the pioneer life of a period extending
                    from 1780 to 1875. As a teacher of history in the Academy of 
                        Berea
                     College, Mrs. Peck conceived the idea of visiting the homes and schools of the students
                    who had been in her classes. These visits, made on foot or on muleback, furnished the opportunity to
                    learn many of the facts on which she has based her poems.  While
                    traveling in the southern mountains, many areas of which are truly retarded frontiers, she gathered
                    up old wills, deeds, letters, journals, and newspapers. Though a reader and lover of poetry, the
                    author first tried to tell her story in prose, but the attempt was abandoned. The subjects suggested
                    by the accumulated material on pioneer life called for portrayal in verse, and the result is a book
                    of poems.
            Of the volume, Mrs. Peck says in her "Foreword": "It was not written for
                    professors of history. Why trouble them with one more book? American Frontier is
                    for anybody who enjoys rich, full-flavored life, even though he knows little about the history of
                    American pioneeringquot;. Of the success of Mrs. Peck's effort to express her conception of
                    the frontier in poetry, Stephen Benet says: "She's dug up some beautiful material
                    and told it with a very effective readable directness."
            Only a few of the selections in the volume can be noticed in, this brief review. In the first poem,
                    "White Man", the Indian, Black Hoof, ponders deeply the coming of settlers to his
                    forests. Comparing the new type of man with his own race, he concludes that— 
                        The Spirit never meant him to live in our forest. If he possessed it, he could not live in
                            it. He is too weak and full of fear, Too lazy and woman-bound. If he possessed it, he would
                            straightway hack it down. The Spirit never meant him to live in our forests.
                    
            
            The poem "Walthena" reveals the longing of a pioneer woman for some touch of denied
                    beauty in her home, a longing satisfied by giving her daughters symbolic names: 
                        But I chose names for loveliness alone. Fair-Anna is a spoon of silver bright, Lizelle a
                            silken gown, Morene a china bowl, And you, Walthena, are a candle white, A tall, smooth
                            candle white, Walthena.
                    
            
            "Between the Walls of the Valley," presents humorous stories pertaining to mountain
                    people and mountain ways, among others using the old tale regarding the planting of corn in a
                    mountain-side field: 
                        It's odd, stranger, I saw a farmer loading, His shotgun full of corn, As I went by.
                            Could you tell my why? 
                            He shoots his corn in, row by row, Between the walls of the valley.
                    
            
            There is a camp-meeting poem and one dealing with the old wagoner of Indiana in 1850. Johnny
                    Appleseed is not missed, nor the 
                        Arkansas
                     Traveler. 
                        Texas
                    , Old Man River, Mormons, gold-seekers and trappers all have their
                    innings, in turn. The range is from 
                        Ohio
                     to the Gulf and from the Gulf to the golden West. The dangers, the fears, the longings
                    and the democracy of the people of the advancing frontier are the themes of the poems in American Frontier. The leveling effect that frontier conditions exercised on
                    newcomers is well set forth in some lines that relate to a group of 
                        Michigan
                     colonists of about 1835: 
                        Back home they never would have met, Even at church. Out here they neighbor side by side,
                            Knowing well, The sweetness of each other's bread, However raised.
                    
            
            But why write more? The poems must be read in order to appreciate the book.
            BERTHA THOMAS LYNCH.
         
         
            
               A History of 
                            Kentucky
                        
               . By Thomas D. Clark, Ph.D. Prentice-Hall, Inc., 
                        New York
                    , 1937. Pp. xvi, 702, illustrab ed, maps, $5.00.
            
               
                        Kentucky
                     has had a long history. It has been a history marked by the development of a high
                    civilization, by bitter conflicts and by stirring events. Reaching from the Cumber-lands to the 
                        Mississippi
                    , the state is made up of sections with diverse interests. The commonwealth has always
                    been both western and southern, while, at the same time bound to the North by strong ties. Much has
                    been written on 
                        Kentucky
                    , but the time was ripe for a single-volume history of the state that would bring the
                    story down to the present, and furnish a balanced account of the middle and earlier periods. The new
                    volume is, therefore, timely.
            The first chapter is devoted to geography and the economic factor is stressed throughout the volume.
                    The state's history to 1865 is given over four hundred fifty pages, leaving about one
                    hundred twenty-five to the period since the Civil  War. In both
                    the ante-bellum and the later periods, the author deals not only with political and economic
                    developments but also with education and culture. One of the chapters on the middle period is
                    devoted to slavery in 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            There are no footnotes but there is an extensive bibliography for each chapter. These classified
                    lists of original and secondary matter occupy forty pages near the end of the volume. There is a
                    comprehensive index and three maps—a political map of the state, an topographical map,
                    and a Civil War map. There are fourteen well-chosen illustrations that add to the attractiveness of
                    the volume.
            It has not been an easy matter, even for a man reared and educated outside of 
                        Kentucky
                    , to write the history of a state so often torn by conflicts. Doctor Clark has attempted
                    to write "a straightforward narrative setting forth the salient points of 
                        Kentucky
                    's social, economic and political growth," and has measured up to the
                    standard set for himself. From beginning to end the story is interesting and varied. It is informing
                    and readable. It will furnish the general reader with a generous knowledge of 
                        Kentucky
                    's history. The special student will find in the volume the basis for a more
                    extended study, which the bibliography will greatly aid him in making.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH.
         
         
            The 
                        Benton
                     Review Shop of Fowler, Indiana, has brought out a new edition of the Workbook in Indiana History, which was first published in 1934. The outlines, surveys, and
                    questions that make up the Workbook were prepared by Gale Smith. There is an
                    outline map of the 
                        United States
                    , a few maps of the Old Northwest, and a larger number of Indiana. There are also tables
                    of useful figures pertaining to area and population of counties, and a list of cities with the
                    population of each in 1920 and 1930. This Workbook should prove valuable to
                    teachers who give courses in Indiana history.
            The Journal of Rudolph Friederich Kurtz has been recently published as Bulletin, No. 115, of the Bureau of American Ethnology (Government Printing Office, 
                        Washington
                    ). The Bulletin sells for sixty cents. The Journal,
                    originally in German, was translated by Myrtis Jarrell and J. N. B. Hewitt, and edited by Mr.
                    Hewitt. It runs to 382 pages, and is accompanied  by a number of
                    illustrations and an index. The Journal is an account of the experiences of Mr.
                    Kurtz, an artist, while among American fur traders and Indians on the 
                        Mississippi
                     and the upper 
                        Missouri
                     during the years from 1846 to 1852. It is a valuable source for western history in the
                    period covered.
            The life of Obediah Wise of 
                        Virginia
                    , while a student at Indiana University from 1847 to 1850, by William M. Adkins, is
                    running serially in the Indiana University Alumni Quarterly. The first installment
                    appeared in the "Winter" issue of 1937. The story will surely interest many
                    readers of the Indiana Magazine of History.
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages
            A STUDENT AT INDIANA UNIVERSITY*
            
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
            I entered Indiana University in September, 1901,1 with ninety term-hours to my
                    credit for college work previously done.2 I was given junior standing, but I
                    could have attained the same status eleven years earlier had circumstances permitted me to begin a
                    college course in the fall immediately after graduation from high school. It was still true in the
                    early years of the new century that a large number of teachers obtained degrees several years late,
                    and I did not worry much. Indeed I was too happy over the chance that had at last come to me to
                    waste any time regretting my lot. I do not think that the eleven years were lost. They were years of
                    slow advancement, it is true, but, wherever I worked, I gave about as good service as was possible
                    with the resources at my command. I am only sorry that I had to work so long without a better
                    equipment.
            The long first stage of the University ended about 1885. There had been several great men on the
                    faculty between 182–885, who will always be remembered, but the modern period did not
                    begin tin the coming of David Starr Jordan. Prior to his presidency, the University was a struggling
                    college, with a student body that had never exceeded 200. The number of graduates in 1884 was only
                    twenty-one. During the year 190–902, the total number of different students enrolled was
                    1,469, and the number of bachelor's degrees granted in June, 1902, was one hundred six,
                    including fifteen who received law degrees.3
            
            During that first portion of the period of transition, from 1885 to 1902, the campus saw what were
                    then considered rapid changes. In September, 1901, the newest building for 
                  
                     * This autobiography was started in the March issue of
                            1936, and further installments have appeared in each quarterly issue since. It is probable
                            that the story will be continued through 1938.
                  
                     1 I actually came to the University for the summer session of 1900,
                            but, contracting a deep chest-cold, I was obliged to withdraw at about the middle of the
                            six-weeks. While I was in school I was privileged to become well acquainted with Dr. John A.
                            Bergstrom. I did not enroll in any history classes.
                  
                     2 It was customary at that time to allow a graduate of the Normal
                            School a credit of two years, provided he had completed a four-year course, which meant 8
                            three-year course for a high school graduate. It was practically impossible to meet the
                            major requirements and obtain the necessary credits in prescribed fields and obtain the A.B.
                            degree by earning ninety term-hours. I found it necessary to earn one hundred three hours of
                            credit after making several substitutions, so was graduated with thirteen extra hours.
                  
                     3 In addition, the A.M. degree was granted to eighteen
                        students.
               
                     class use was Kirkwood Hall. Wylie Hall, following a fire, was
                    repaired and an extra story added in 1900, and the Observatory was finished in that year. Assembly
                    Hall, now called the "Woodshed", was erected in 1896. It is referred to in the
                    official publications of my student years as the "Men's Gymnasium", with
                    no apologies.
            One of the humorous sallies of the Student, which appeared in one of the early
                    issues of the twentieth century, was: "When coming to or leaving 
                        Bloomington
                    , always travel by the Monon." I came that way even before getting the benefit
                    of this helpful suggestion. Being a married man, I sought for a place where it would be possible to
                    do light-housekeeping. When my wife appeared a few days later, she found me wrestling with the small
                    batch of household furniture that we had shipped from 
                        Elkhart
                    . I was having a hard time to place our effects in the two rooms that I had engaged in a
                    house located in the two-hundred block on East Seventh Street. We were settled snugly enough before
                    the opening of the University year. In a short time, we discovered twenty or more married couples,
                    some with children, who had also found living quarters in homes about the city. Two or three of
                    these families occupied entire houses.4
            
            By the census of 1900, 
                        Bloomington
                     boasted a population of 6,460. The improved streets were well rounded-up and covered
                    with finely crushed limestone. The non-improved streets, of which Indiana Avenue was one, were
                    surfaced with red clay. In wet weather, one picked his way across this thoroughfare by stepping
                    carefully on flat stones that were placed a foot or so apart at intersections. When I left the
                    University with my diploma in June, 1903, the City Council was engaged in a debate, as it had been
                    for some weeks, on a proposal to begin the construction of a sewer system. The 
                        Illinois
                     Central line through 
                        Bloomington
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     was built after 1903, and there was no bus line. Local passenger traffic was in the
                    hands of various and sundry cab drivers, who charged ten cents per passenger.5
                    Already a few automobiles were in use in cities, but I do not recall seeing a motor car of any
                    description in 
                        Bloomington
                     while a student at the 
                  
                     4 The "Married Students' Club", though
                            scarcely noticed by the general body of students, was really a going concern. There is even
                            a picture of the Club in the Arbutus of 1903 (D. 117).
                  
                     5 Several of the cab or carriage drivers boasted two horses. All of
                            the cabs appeared at the Monon Station every time a train came in. In fact, the arrival of
                            either of the two most important day-time trains, one from the South and the other from the
                            North, wan a real event in the life of the City and the University.
               
                     University. The city was a quiet pleace, beautiful then, as
                    now, with almost a surplus of fine shade trees and shrubbery.6 There are times
                    when one would be willing to go back to the atmosphere of that day for a week or a
                    month—perhaps not for a longer time.
            I had taken about a year each of American and European history while a student in the Normal School.
                    On the basis of this and such work as I had done in grades and high school, I served one year as a
                    teacher of history in the 
                        Elkhart
                     High School, just prior to my two years at Indiana University.7 It
                    was during that one year, while teaching history exclusively, that I mastered enough history to
                    serve as a groundwork for some specialization in that field. The courses that I carried with
                    Professors James A. Woodburn, Samuel B. Harding, Amos S. Hershey, and Ulysses G. Weatherly, in
                    history, political science, and economics were deeply appreciated. An opportunity, beyond anything
                    that had ever come to me earlier, to read in these fields, was enjoyed to the limit.
            Since I was endeavoring to complete the requirements for an A.B. degree, it was necessary to take
                    certain prescribed work besides social studies courses. Dropping out to teach during the spring
                    quarter of 1902, I spent the summer at Winona Lake, where I met the requirement
                    in science. It was necessary to take some courses in mathematics, which afforded me the privilege of
                    working with Professors Ulysses S. Hanna and Robert J. Aley. While under the instruction of Dr.
                    Aley, I thoroughly enjoyed the struggle provided by the problems in Charles Smith's College Algebra. I carried one year of German and one of French during my two
                    years at the University, which I did not mind at all, though I regretted that I had not been
                    permitted to do much more with each of these languages earlier in life.
            For nearly forty years, I have kept a cash account.8 My entries for the interval
                    between September, 1901, and Commencement Day of June, 1903, are of interest, for the reason that
                    they reveal much in regard to the cost of living 
                  
                     6 For a city so small, there was an unusually sharp contrast between
                            the culture and comfort of the more favored portions and the district where the families of
                            the poor were congregated.
                  
                     7 I was accorded the title of "Head of the Department of
                            History", but I was the only one on the staff at the time.
                  
                     8 In the Indianac Magazine of History (Dec. 1939).
                            XXV. 31–25. I published the cash account of a history major who was a senior
                            during 190–903, aguising the fact that the account was my own. I now relieve my
                            conscience by the admission that I purposely misled readers of the Magazine. I did not deceive very many, I know full well, as a great number of
                            subscribers. believing that they are too busy, fail to notice what appears in this
                            quarterly.
               
                     in that age. A study of this side of student life shows that
                    the thirty-four years that have passed do not really indicate the distance between the conditions
                    then and now. Books cost far less and food prices and rents were low. Every quarter, each student
                    paid a library fee of one dollar, and, except in laboratory courses, there was no additional fee. In
                    the fall quarter of 1902, the total expense for fees, books, and other school supplies for Mrs.
                    Lynch and myself was $18.45. This included a Waterman pen, at $2.50, a
                    subscription to the Student for a quarter, at seventy-five cents, and a share in
                    the "Co-op", costing $2.00 We bought seven text books at a total cost
                    of $8.90. In the same fall quarter, I went alone to the first football
                    game—admission twenty-five cents. The most important game played at 
                        Bloomington
                     in the season of 1902, Mrs. Lynch and I both attended, the admission being fifty cents
                        each.9 I do not recall that there were any seats at a higher price.
            We went home during the Christmas holidays each year but at no other time. This was a fairly
                    expensive vacation as the round-trip carefare to Delphi was $10.54 for two, at the
                    holiday rate of one and one-third fare. I must mention that when people traveled in those days,
                    whether they went very far or not, they usually took a trunk along. Trunks were carried free by the
                    railroads, but one always had to look after drayage and checking the baggage. The popular suitcase
                    of the time was the "telescopequot;. There were more expensive traveling bags in use, but
                    the "telescope" was the universal companion of common folk for several years when
                    making trips. The inventor of this contraption should have been shot before he carried out his idea.
                    Should he still be living, I would at least vote for a short prison term, were he on trial and I a
                    juryman. The "telescope" had two unforgetably bad features. In the first place, it
                    was broader from side to side than vertically when suspended from the hand. This made it necessary
                    for one carrying a packed "telescope" in his right hand to lean far over to the
                    left as he walked along. In the second place, whatever the size (and there were all sizes, ranging
                    from tiny ones to those as big as trunks) of the "telescope", when empty and
                    closed, it could be filled to twice that size and 
                  
                     9 The game of Oct. 7, 1902, which I attended gone, was between Indiana
                            University and 
                                Wabash
                            —acore 84 to 0. Purdue and Indiana played at 
                                Lafayette
                             that year. The most important game at 
                                Bloomington
                             was with Notre Dame on Oct. 25—score 11 to 6. This is the game that
                            Mrs. Lynch and I attended. There were two other games at 
                                Bloomington
                             in 1902. one with DePanw and one with 
                                Vincennes
                             University.
               
                     generally was. We owned a "telescope", a
                    little above average size, while at Indiana University, and I have never forgotten it.
            It was during my senior year that the History Club was formed. My recollection is that Frank C. Gray,
                    a major in history from 
                        Indianapolis
                     was the originator of the idea and the chief promoter of the Club. His principal
                    abettor at first was Walter Grey ("Pat") Murphy from 
                        Washington
                    , Indiana. Murphy was also a major in history and a good student. He was a large young
                    man with much native humor, who scorned conventions and anything like polish. He lived his life in
                    his own way.10 The members of the history faculty approved the plan to form a
                    Club and most of the history majors were soon enlisted in its support. It was launched in the middle
                    of the fall quarter of 1902, and still lives. The first annual banquet was held in March of 1903 in
                    one of the churches. It was quite an affair with toasts by professors and students. The price per
                    plate was seventy-five cents, which meant a rather expensive dinner in that era.11
            
            Science Hall was completed in 1902 and was ready for use at some time during my senior year. A move
                    towards the erection of a student building was started in the summer of 1902. Subscriptions were
                    taken then and during the following year. A daring idea was conjured up by some one to the effect
                    that every senior on the campus ought to give ten dollars. I had subscribed five dollars during the
                    summer when Charles M. Lawrence visited Delphi, and now pledged another five to come up to the
                    standard set. That seems a very small total as I look back to it, but, in that day, it meant giving
                    till it hurt for most of the students who contributed. The building was planned to cost
                    $80,000, half of which was a gift from John D. Rockefeller. Construction costs were
                    comparatively low then, it is very evident.
            There has been much said and written about the search for jobs in recent years. I can testify that
                    the problem was present in that earlier period. In the summer of 1902, I was offered a place as a
                    high school teacher at ninety dollars a month. I turned it down, because, poor as I was, I was in
                    for 
                  
                     10 Mr. Gray died at 
                                Indianapolis
                             in 1906. and Mr. Murphy took up farming in 
                                Daviess County
                            , near 
                                Washington
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     11 The writer was the firat President of the History Club. Larkin L.
                            Beeman, ‘03, now a professor of history in the Santa Ana Junior College (Santa
                            Ann, Caltfornia), was the President during the Spring Quarter of 190–903, and
                            Emmett E. Giltner. ‘04. now professor in the 
                                New York
                             Training College for Teachers (
                                New York City
                            ) was chosen to serve during the fall quarter of 1903.
               
                     the "durationquot;. After the new year had opened, I
                    was again asked to leave the University, this time to take charge of the schools of Converse,
                    Indiana, but I rejected this offer too. Though I was only to receive an A.B. degree at the end of
                    the year, I was encouraged to try for a position in a Normal School. I narrowly escaped being chosen
                    to each of two positions in the state of 
                        Washington
                    . However, I was most exercised over the consideration that I received from President
                    George A. McFarland of the Normal School at 
                  Valley
                        City, North Dakota
               . He wrote me several
                    letters and investigated me carefully. In the end he informed me, after the appointment had been
                    made, that I was one of three out of forty selected for final consideration. The place went to a
                    candidate who had just completed the work for a doctor's degree, as was entirely proper. I
                    know that many college professors of my age have passed through similar experiences, and often met
                    with what seemed overwhelming disappointments. It is interesting, in retrospect, to think how happy
                    one can be that he did not succeed in certain efforts, since success would have made it impossible
                    for later and more desirable opportunities to present themselves.
            Dr. Aley recommended me for the superintendency of the 
                        Spencer
                     Public Schools, and I went to see the School Board. When I held out for a certain
                    modest salary ($900 per year), the Board decided to retain the man who had just resigned
                    to go elsewhere for a trifle more than that. I was called to 
                        Chicago
                    , just after Commencement, to confer with Professor Henry Thurston and President Arnold
                    Tompkins of the 
                        Chicago
                     Normal School about a position. This looked like a sure thing with a good salary, but,
                    when I discussed the matter with Dr. Thurston, I discovered that he wanted a man who would be
                    willing to give a course in anthropology, in addition to history courses. I could only state frankly
                    that I had no special or even general preparation in the line of anthropology, though I believe that
                    I could have defined the term. The weeks went by and I had no place. Friends and relatives began to
                    worry, but, like Mr. Micawber, I had a feeling that something would turn up.
            It was about August 1, that I received a telegram from 
                        Elkhart
                     asking me to again become the head of the history 
                        department.12 I accepted this offer at an advance of ten dollars per month
                    over the salary received during the year 190–901. Two weeks later, I received a wire
                    asking me to become the superintendent of the Attica Public Schools for a year. This offer I
                    rejected, though the salary was more than three hundred dollars above what I was to receive at 
                        Elkhart
                    .13 After I had taught ten days, a note came from Superintendent
                    Calvin N. Kendall of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Schools in which he asked me, if interested in a position as instructor in history at
                    $1200 per year, to come to Indianapplis at Once.14 I made the trip as
                    soon as possible. When I met Superintendent Kendall, he received me kindly, but explained that,
                    information relative to the vacancy having gotten into the papers, it had been found necessary to
                    consider another candidate. No further explanation was ever made in regard to the matter. I
                    journeyed back to my job, which, except for the salary, was about as fine as any high school
                    instructorship in history in the state, and, with that job, I staid for some time.
            I cannot say that student life at Indiana University was better at the opening of the century than in
                    later years. Being several years older than those who spent four years at the University immediately
                    after leaving high school, I did not, of course, have a normal or regular student experience. I
                    believe that the moral tone of fraternities, and perhaps of sororities, was not as high then as in
                    later years. I am certain that, in spite of the more expensive chapter houses of the present day,
                    there was less of the democratic spirit a generation ago. I am not at all convinced that the general
                    run of students worked harder in that period than now. There was no doubt a larger element of both
                    brilliant and mediocre students who worked incessantly, paying little attention to anything save
                    school work. This was partly due to greater poverty and partly because there were fewer activities
                    to distract. It was also true that education, being harder to get and open to fewer people, was more
                    deeply appreciated. To be a University student was still by no means an ordinary condition, which
                        
                  
                     12 Arndt M. Stickles, now professor of history in the Western 
                                Kentucky State
                             Teachers College (Bowling Green), taught history in the 
                                Elkhart
                             High School while I was at the University. He resigned to go to 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     13 The position of Acting-Superident of the Attica Schools was offered
                            to me through Registrar John W. Cravens.
                  
                     14 The vacancy was in the history department of Manual Training High
                            School.
               
                     enhanced the importance of college men and women in their own
                    estimation and in the eyes of others.
            It is impossible to comment separately on the many worthwhile students whom it was my privilege to
                    know and count as friends while at the University. I was closely associated with a number who
                    obtained degrees in 1902 and in the years immediately after 1903, as well as in that year. The
                    number of students who received the A.B. degree in 1903 was 11215 I believe that
                    the class of 1903 compares favorably with any body of graduates of any year, as to the relative
                    number of able members.16
            
            The impression of Indiana University which I carried away in 1903, and it has grown on me since, was
                    that it was an institution manned by an earnest, able, hardworking faculty. I was sure that money
                    was only one of the things needed to make a strong University, but it was obvious that the state,
                    though awakening to its obligations, was not permitting the building up of a great library nor
                    creating other facilities for extensive research. There has been a strong tendency for legislators,
                    professional men and leaders in business to boast of their support of education in our state, while
                    remaining largely blind to the absolute necessity of promoting advanced study. To provide for
                    undergraduate work which serves the many, and economize on the more expensive phase of education,
                    which seems to serve the few, has been too much the prevailing idea in Indiana—an idea
                    that men have held with pride. It is nevertheless an unsound idea, as no stream can rise higher than
                    its source. To change the figure, no faculty can remain above the water-line unless many a member
                    has the passion and the chance to work on the fringe of his field in an effort to add something in
                    the way of new knowledge.
            I was not closely associated with members of the faculty other than those in the field of history and
                    closely related subjects. Dr. Woodburn, I found to be an enthusiastic, expert class-room teacher, a
                    kindly, persistent friend, a gentleman of culture, and a man with wide contacts and an open mind.
                    Dr. Harding was an exacting teacher and a man of force and vitality. He was thoroughly absorbed in
                    his subject, and very 
                  
                     15 Twelve graduates of the Law school received the degree of Bachelor
                            of Law. and the degree of Master of Arts was granted to nineteen graduate students.
                  
                     16 Eighteen of those who received A.B. degrees in 190s became college
                            professors; one a collage president: five physiaians or surgeon; ten attorneys at law; one a
                            famous singer; one a journalist; one a clergyman: one a Y.M.C.A. secretary. traveler and
                            writer: one a noted social worker. Many others rose to important positions In public school
                            work and in the business world.
               
                     appreciative of students who were willing and able to work hard
                    and show substantial results. Dr. Hershey was a more easy-going teacher in the class-room. He left a
                    great deal of leeway to his students. When assigned a course in which he was not interested, he
                    seemed to care little about it. In whatever he was genuinely interested he lost himself completely,
                    worked at it patiently, thought about it long and deeply, and his understanding of it grew steadily.
                    To get what Dr. Hershey had to give, the student must also be interested, work for himself, and grow
                    by catching the simple, unaffected approach of his teacher. Dr. Weatherly was a seeker after truth.
                    He read, weighed the evidence, considered the views of others without prejudice, and presented his
                    own views with candor and modesty. He was calm and dignified but stimulating. I sat at the feet of
                    these four teachers when all were approaching their best. Their spirit, their knowledge, their
                    guidance, I needed.
            While at the University, I came in contact with Registrar John W. Cravens and Dean Horace A. Hoffman
                    frequently, both on and off the campus. From the first each seemed like an old friend. Neither of
                    them ever failed me when I needed advice or aid. During my first year in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Dr. Joseph Swain was President. I saw him occasionally, but never learned to know him.
                    I was a senior during Dr. William L. Bryan's first year as President. It was never my
                    privilege to know him as a class-room teacher, but I did become acquainted with him before the end
                    of the year. I think he became interested in me through the good offices of Mr. Cravens and Dr.
                    Wood-burn. As I look back to the year 190–903, I recall that an unusually fine spirit
                    pervaded the campus. I talked with no student who did not believe that the right man had been chosen
                    to the presidency. The prevailing notion among students was that Indiana University was certain to
                    hold a high place among the institutions of the country. Strange to say, there was little or nothing
                    said about buildings or the size of the student body. So far as I know, we generally felt that there
                    were enough buildings and a sufficient number of students. The greatness of the University was to
                    lie in its intrinsic worth. This was before the age of "bally-hoo" when anything
                    to be better must be bigger. There may have been some "go-getters" and
                    "super-salesmen" then, but, if so, most of the students at  Indiana University were ignorant of their existence in that remote
                    time—about thirty-five years ago.
            One of the things for which President William L. Bryan should always be highly honored is the fact
                    that he could not become a President of the "go-getter" type. The University,
                    under his wise guidance, developed steadily and sanely. In so far as adequate support was not
                    forthcoming, it was because the elements that controlled the state were unable to appreciate his
                    idealism and did not permit Indiana to rise to her real opportunities in the realm of higher
                    education.
         
         
         
            
               Contributors to this issue: R. Gerald McMurtry is Director of the Lincoln
                    Historical Research Library of Lincoln Memorial University, Harrogate, 
                        Tennessee
                    . William J. Van Schreeven is on the staff of the Division of Classification, National
                    Archives, 
                        Washington
                    , D. C. Thomas W. Records lives in 
                        New Harmony
                    , where he was formerly Superintendent of Public schools for several years. Effa
                    Morrison (Mrs. A. V.) Danner lives in 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana, where she is an active worker in the 
                        Switzerland County
                     Historical Society. Alonzo LeRoy Wheeler is a retired miller, eighty-four years of age,
                    who now resides in 
                        Mooresville
                    , Indiana. Dr. James A. Wood-burn was for many years professor and head of the
                    department of history at Indiana University, and for several years he was President of the Indiana
                    Historical Society. Miss Nellie Armstrong is the Editor of publications for the Indiana Historical
                    Bureau, State Library and Historical Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Bertha Thomas (Mrs. W. O.) Lynch lives in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana. She is a sort of unofficial member of the "staff" of the
                        Indiana Magazine of History.
            The "Index" for Vol. XXXIII (1937) will be mailed to subscribers with the first
                    issue of 1938 (March).
         
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to com plete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices
                    above the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the deaired publications may write
                    to the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more copies of the following
                    numbers, especially those marked with asterisks: 
                  
                     * Volume 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1905).
                  Volume 11, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
                  Volume 111, 1, 2, 3, 4 March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907).
                  Volume VII, 4 (Dec., 1911).
                  
                     * Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1912).
                  Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
                  
                     * Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
                  
                     * Volume XVII, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1921).
                  Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
                  Volume XXII, 1, 4 (March, Dec., 1926).
               
            
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries or individuals who
                    may desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied at fifty cents a copy, or
                    two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four
                    dollars per volume. Issues from 19061915, when they can be supplied at all, will be sold at one and
                    a half dollars per number.
            The Indiana University Library needs the following publications to complete its files. Anyone having
                    any of these publications will confer a great favor by writing to W.A. Alexander, Librarian of
                    Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana
            
                    The Indiana Alumnus
                    
                  Volume VI, 14 (Dec. 26, 1926). Wanted 8 copies.
                  Volume VI, 16 (Jan. 16, 1927). Wanted 2 copies.
               
                
            
            
               The Indium University Catalogue. The University needs the following to fill out the
                    files. 
                  183–833. Wanted 3 copies.
                  183–834. Wanted 3 copies.
                  183–885. Wanted 3 copies.
                  183–837. Wanted 2 copies.
                  183–838. Wanted 2 copies.
                  183–840. Wanted 2 copies.
                  184–841. Wanted 2 copies.
                  184–844. Wanted 2 copies.
                  184–850. Wanted 2 copies.
                  186–864. Wanted 2 copies.
               
            
            
               The Indium School Journal. Wanted: Volume XXXVII (1892) and Volume XXXVIII (1893).
            
               Indiana Law Journal. Wanted: Vol, I, No. 1; Vol. II, Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6; Vol. III,
                    Nos. 1, 6, 6. The desired copies were published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     during 189–899.
            In 1930, The Indiana Magazine of History published a General
                    Index for the first twenty-five volumes (190–929). The Index was compiled by Dorothy
                    Riker of the Indiana Historical Bureau. Every library and every individual possessing a file of the
                        Magazine for the period covered by the General Index, or for
                    any considerable portion of the period, should have a copy. It is still possible to obtain copies at
                    $1.00 each. Send orders to the Indiana Magazine of History, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
         
         
         
            INDIANA GENEALOGY
            The Harshbarger Family of 
                        Montgomery County
                    
            
            JESSIE C. WATSON
            
            About twenty-five years ago William Anderson, a descendant of the Harshbarger family, compiled the
                    history and genealogy of the family, a record of one hundred ten pages. The data relative to the 
                        Montgomery County
                    , Indiana, line of the Harshbarger family are taken from this manuscript record.
            The name Harshbarger is an Americanized form of the Swiss-German name Hirschberger. Jacob, the emigrant, was born in 
                  Basle, Switzerland
               , about 1722. He went
                    to 
                        Holland
                     in 1750, married Maria Eva Petra, and remained there four years to earn his passage
                    money to America by weaving, being an expert in this art. The young couple sailed for America in
                    1754, with a baby daughter. This child died on shipboard. Jacob and Maria Eva landed at 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and leter established a home in 
                  Lancaster
                        County, Pennsylvania
               .
            They had at least three sons: Christian—b. 1755; d, 1827; m. (1) Barbara Ammen and (2) a
                    widow, Mrs. Garman. Jacob—b. 1757; d, 1850; m. (1) Margaret Keller and (2) a widow, Mrs.
                    Sellebarger. Samuel—b. 1759; d, 1849; M Elizabeth Gish. Little is known of the youth of
                    these three sons. All of them left 
                  Lancaster County,
                            Pennsylvania
               . Their children all lived
                    in 
                        Virginia
                    , but Jacob resided for a long period in 
                        Maryland
                    . Christian lived several years in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , near his wife's people. After the Revolutionary War, Barbara's
                    father bought 1512 acres of land in southwestern 
                        Virginia
                    . In 1784, he took his family, including Christian and Barbara (Ammen) Harshbarger, to
                    the new home on Mill Creek in 
                        Virginia
                    . This was about three miles from Fincastle. Barbara died in 1803, leaving a family of
                    eight children: 
                        
                     Child—b. 1780; d. in infancy.
                     Catherine—b. 1781; m. John Deardorf.
                     Samuel—b. 1783; m. three times.
                     Child—b. 1785; d. in infancy.
                     Jacob—b. 1786; m. Elizabeth Beckner.
                     Mary—b. 1789; m. John Beckner.
                     Rebecca—b. 1791; m. Jacob Gish.
                     Elizabeth—b. 1794; m. John Stair.
                     Susan—b. 1797; m. David Gish.
                     Anna—b. 1799; m. John Riddle.
                  
                    
            
            
            Catherine, the daughter of Christian was born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and married John Deardorf. They moved to 
                        Virginia
                     and remained there several years. Then, she and several of her relatives moved to
                            
                  Highland County, Ohio
               . In less than twenty years, her family scattered westward. She
                    had twelve children, six of whom came to Indiana, but not to 
                        Montgomery County
                    .
            Samuel Harshbarger, son of Christian, settled in 
                  Highland
                        County, Ohio
               , near 
                        Leesburg
                    , about 1812. He moved to Indiana in 1828, and died in 1853. He had three wives and
                    fourteen children, and they lived near Delphi. Later, some of them moved to 
                        Lafayette
                    , and others to points in 
                        Illinois
                    .
            Jacob, son of Christian, went to 
                  Highland County, Ohio
               , in 1816, and lived near Rocky Ford. He
                    later went to 
                        Illinois
                    . He married Elizabeth Beckner. Their eleven children moved westward, many of them to
                    the Pacific Coast.
            Mary, daughter of Christian, married John Beckner. She died in 1810, leaving one son, Samuel Beckner,
                    who lived in 
                        Lafayette
                     as early as 1832 and died in 1890. He was the first mayor of 
                        Lafayette
                    .
            Rebecca, daughter of Christian, married Jacob Gish and moved to 
                  Highland County, Ohio
               . She had
                    seven children all of whom lived in the neighborhood of 
                        Lafayette
                    .
            Elizabeth, daughter of Christian, came to Indiana in 1829 and married John Stair. They liver near the
                        Wabash river, below Delphi. Many of their descendants went to 
                        California
                     and other parts of the Far West, only a few remaining in Indiana.
            Susan, daughter of Christian, married David Gish. They had four children, who settled around 
                        South Bend
                     and 
                        Lafayette
                    .
            Anna, youngest daughter of Christian, married John Riddle (Riddell), and died in 1899. They had ten
                    children. Many of the descendants went to 
                        Iowa
                    .
            Jacob Harshbarger, second son of Jacob, the emigrant, was born in 
                  Lancaster County, Pennsylvania
               
                    and lived most of his life in or near 
                  Hagerstown,
                            Maryland
               . His wife, Margaret Keller,
                    died there, leaving him, with at least four sons. The name of only one, Jacob, the youngest is
                    known. The other three sons, are known to have lived in the 
                  Hagerstown, Maryland
               ,
                    neighborhood. They probably moved westward, as their father Jacob, in his late years, left 
                        Maryland
                     and lived among  his brothers family in
                    southwestern 
                        Virginia
                    . Jacob, son of the emigrant, married in 
                        Virginia
                    , a widow, Mrs. Sellebarger, and they had a son Henry who was born in 1820. He married
                    Fannie Traill in 1855 and they had four children: 
                        
                     Jacob—b, 1855.
                     Henry—b, 1858.
                     Martha—b, 1860; m.———Patterson.
                     William—b, 1862.
                  
                    
            
            Samuel Harshbarger, third son of Jacob, the emigrant, married Elizabeth Gish, and they had eight
                    children: 
                        
                     Maria—b. 1787; d. 1789.
                     Elizabeth b. 1790; m. Samuel Frankebarger.
                     Jacob—b. 1792; m. Salome Ammen.
                     Catherine—b. 1794; m. (1) Jacob Bonsack and (2) Joseph Brubaker.
                     Maria—b. 1796; m. Joseph Nofsinger.
                     Susanna—b. 1799; d, 1888; m. John Bonsack.
                     Samuel—b, 1802; m. Elizabeth Myers.
                     Catrina—b, 1804; (no further record.)
                  
                    
            
            Elizabeth Harshbarger, daughter of Samuel and Elizabeth (Gish) Harshbarger, married Samuel
                    Frankebarger and their children numbered ten: 
                        
                     William Frankebarger—b.——; d, 1848.
                     Elizabeth—m. Daniel Graybill.
                     Samuel—b, 1814; (no further record).
                     Susan—b, 1816; d. 1900.
                     Rebecca—b, 1818; m. Samuel Stober.
                     Mary, m.——Wills.
                     Jacob—b, 1823; m. Rachel Byrd.
                     Joel—b, 1825; went to 
                           Los
                                    Angeles, California
                        .
                     Sarah—b, 1828; m. Reed Clark.
                     Anna—b, 1831; m. Oliver Clark.
                  
                    
            
            There are many of this family, still living in 
                        Montgomery County
                    , Ind., and while the name of Frankebarger is rarely known, the Graybills, Stoners,
                    Byrds, and Clarks, are among the oldest families in that locality.
            Jacob Harshbarger, son of Samuel and Elizabeth (Gish) Harshbarger, married Salome Ammen, and brought
                    his family from 
                        Virginia
                     to 
                        Montgomery County
                    , Indiana, about 1831. He bought land in the vicinity of 
                        Ladoga
                    , and taught one of the first schools, in a log house, in this district. He was also a
                    miller and farmer. At one time he is said to have owned three thousand acres of land in the county.
                    He was a Dunkard,  as most of the Harshbargers were and are
                    today, and he helped to organize a Dunkard Church on Cornstalk Creek shortly after coming to the
                    county. Like many of his family, he held tenaciously to German customs and language, keeping the
                    record of births in his family by date, month, and sign of the Zodiac. Many of his descendants may
                    be found near 
                        Ladoga
                     at this time.
            
                    
                  Children of Jacob and Salome (Ammen) Harshbarger: 
                     Son—b, 1815; died young.
                     Lydia—b, 1816; m. William Myers.
                     John—b, 1818; d, 1830.
                     Samuel—b, 1820; m. Elizabeth Graves. Lived in 
                                    Missouri
                                .
                     Catherine—b, 1821; m. Zachariah Mahorney of 
                                    Ladoga
                                , Ind.
                     Salome—b, 1824; m. M. B. Anderson.
                     Elizabeth—b, 1826; m. S. P. Frame. Lived in 
                                    Missouri
                                .
                     Ann—b, 1830; m. William Frame of 
                                    Ladoga
                                , Ind.
                     Jacob—b, 1828, m. Mary Myers of 
                                    Ladoga
                                , Ind.
                     Mary—b, 1833; m. D. H. Himes of 
                                    Ladoga
                                , Ind.
                  
               
                
            Catherine and Susana Harshbarger, daughters of Samuel and Elizabeth (Gish) Harshbarger, who married
                    Jacob and John Bonsack, did not come to Indiana, but went into 
                        Tennessee
                     from 
                        Virginia
                    , and their families scattered westward.
            Mary (Maria) Harshbarger, daughter of Samuel and Elizabeth (Gish) Harshbarger, who married Joseph
                    Nof-singer, had seven children: 
                        
                     Salome Nofsinger—b, 1813; m. Joel Britts. Went to 
                                    Kansas
                                . William—b, 1815; m. (1) Mary Myers and (2) dau. of Gen.
                                Tilghman Howard of 
                                    Rockville
                                , Ind.
                     Elizabeth—b.1817; m. Joshua Baker. Went to 
                                    Kansas
                                .
                     Mary—b, 1819; m. Daniel Hale.
                     Peter—b, 1823; m. Phoebe LaFollette. Moved to 
                                    Kansas
                                .
                     Jacob—b, 1825; m. Mary Spears. Moved to 
                                    Wisconsin
                                .
                     Susan—b, 1825; m. George LaFollette.
                  
                    
            
            Samuel, son of Samuel and Elizabeth (Gish) Harshbarger, married Elizabeth (Myers) Harshbarger. Their
                    nine children were: 
                        
                     Sarah Harshbarger—b, 1827; m. Robert Miller.
                     Nancy—b, 1829; mar. Clark Byrd.
                     John—b, 1832; m. Susan Clark.
                     Joel—b, 1834; m. Minerva Daugherty.
                     Samuel—b, 1837; m. Mary LaFollette.
                     William—b, 1839; m.,Anna Peffley.
                     David—b, 1842; m. Sarah Davidson.
                     Lizzie—b, 1844; m. Nathan Kessler.
                     Salome—b, 1847; m. David Peffley.
                  
                    
            
            
            The record of this family has been carried through several generations. The 
                        Montgomery County
                     line has been copied and can be used later if space permits. Jacob Harshbarger, son of
                    Jacob and Salome (Ammen) Harshbarger, married Mary Myers, and was probably the best known member of
                    this large Harshbarger family in 
                        Montgomery County
                    . He was born in 
                        Virginia
                     in 1828, and came to 
                        Ladoga
                     with his parents when three years old. He was a successful farmer, president of the 
                        Ladoga
                     Bank, and, unlike most of his family, was a member of the Christian Church. His father
                    assisted in establishing the Dunkard Church on Cornstalk Creek, later located a short distance north
                    of 
                        Ladoga
                    . Today there is a marker on the 
                        Crawfordsville-Ladoga County
                     improved road, just north of 
                        Ladoga
                    , pointing to "The Church of the Brethen", the Dunkard Church, which
                    seems quite as prosperous as any other denomination. Many descendants of this Harshbarger family,
                    still members, and one or two of the older women, are said to appear at Sunday services in their
                    Dunkard bonnets.
            The old Harshbarger Cemetery, on Cornstalk Creek, is across the road from one of the old Harshbarger
                    farms, is still used, and fairly well kept. It is hoped that our D.A.R. Chapter will copy the
                    records in this cemetery, for it seems certain that we shall find the graves of many pioneers of
                    this district. Samuel Harshbarger the son of the emigrant, who died in 1849, is buried there.
         
         
         
            The Benjamin Vancleave Family
            EDWARD S. HARVEY
            
            Benjamin Vancleave, son of Aaron Vancleave and Rachel Schencks, was born in 
                  Monmouth County, New
                    Jersey
               , on November 15, 1741, and died in 
                  Shelby County, Kentucky
               , July
                    27, 1819.1 He was married in 
                  Rowan
                        County, North Carolina
               , on July 14,
                    1765, to Ruth Monson, who was born on July 10, 1746, and died of cancer in 
                  Shelby County, Kentucky
               , on December 5, 1823. The Children of Benjamin and Ruth (Monson)
                    Vancleave were: 
                        
                     Mary Vancleave—b. May 22, 1766; m. in 
                                    Lincoln
                                 Co., 
                                    Ky.
                                , June 9, 1784, to Col. Johnathan Ryker, son of Gerardus Ryker and Rachel
                                Demaree.
                     Aaron Vancleave—b. Dec. 16, 1768; m. in 
                                    Shelby
                                 Co., 
                                    Ky.
                                , Mar. 5 1794, to Elizabeth Vancleave, daughter of John Vancleave, Sr., and
                                Mary Sheppard.
                     Samuel Vancleave—b. Feb. 26, 1770; d. in 
                                    Montgomery
                                 Co., In&, Aug. 25, 1843; m. (1) about 1791, to Elizabeth Wood and
                                (2) in 
                                    Shelby
                                 Co., 
                                    Ky.
                                , Dec. 31, 1823, to Sarah Garner, who was born in 1784, and died at
                                Blakesburg, 
                                    Iowa
                                , Apr. 6, 1859.
                     Rachel Vancleave—b. May 7, 1772; d. Apr. 3, 1819. She is buried in the Old
                                Union Cemetery, 
                                    Montgomery
                                 Co., Ind.; m. (1) Aug. 3, 1788, in Jefferson Co., 
                                    Ky.
                                , to Hugh Conoway and (2) in 
                                    Shelby
                                 Co., 
                                    Ky.
                                , Dec. 20, 1810, to Henry Smith.
                     John Vancleave—b. Apr. 16, 1774; d. July 23, 1833; m. in 
                                    Shelby
                                 Co., 
                                    Ky.
                                , Nov, 18, 1794, to Margery Kerns, daughter of Peter Kerns and Anna Jordan.
                                Peter Kerns and hie wife Anna came from 
                                    Ireland
                                 when Margery was seven months old. Margery's mother dipped her in
                                the sea, as she had been taught that this was a cure for sea sickness.
                     Jane Vancleave—b. Jan. 29, 1778; d. Jan. 16, 1833; m. in 
                                    Shelby
                                 Co., 
                                    Ky.
                                , Dec. 17, 1795, to Adam Wible.
                     Eunice Vancleave—b. at Ft. Boonesborough, 
                                    Ky.
                                , Nov. 15, 1779; m. in 
                                    Shelby
                                 Co., 
                                    Ky.
                                , Sept. 23, 1794, to John Vancleave, Jr., son of Job Vancleave and Mary
                                Sheppard.
                     Sarah Vancleave—b. Dec. 15, 1781; m. in 
                                    Shelby
                                 Co., 
                                    Ky.
                                , Aug. 11, 1802, to John Benjamin Vancleave, son of Aaron Vancleave, Jr.,
                                and Rachel Brent.
                     Ralph VanCleave—b. Mar, 18, 1784; d. Feb. 2, 1855; m. in 
                                    Shelby
                                 Co., 
                                    Ky.
                                , Feb. 27, 1805, to Elizabeth Stubbins, who was born Feb. 12, 1783 and died
                                Nov. 23, 1848.
                     Benjamin Vancleave—b. Feb. 9, 1787; d. Oct. 27, 1856; m. in Hem Co., 
                                    Ky.
                                , Dec, 18, 1809, to Mary Stephenson Mount, daughter of Matthias 
                           
                              1 The names and birth dates of Benjamin
                                        Vancleave's family, except Thomas, were written on a place of brown
                                        paper, found among the effects of his son Samuel Van-cleave ("Preacher
                                        Sammy") of 
                                            Crawfordsville
                                        . Ind., who was killed by a fall from his horse on August 26, 1848.
                                        This paper was preserved by Lucy Vancleave, a sister of the Rev. Johnathan
                                        Vancleave, and in now in the ossession of Mrs. America Saylor of 
                                            Crawfordsville
                                        .
                        
                                 Mount. Mary was born Dec. 16, 1791, and died Apr.
                                29, 1876 After the death of hie first wife, Benjamin Vancleave was again married.
                     William Vancleave—b. May 3, 1789; d. Feb. 26, 1816. He was a Drum Major at
                                the Battle of 
                                    New Orleans
                                . He died in 
                                    New Orleans
                                 of the Yellow Fever. He was married in 
                                    Shelby
                                 Co., 
                                    Ky.
                                , Sept. 24, 1811, to Mary Mount.
                     Hope (or Hopey) Vancleave—m. Johnathan Wood. No other data.
                     Thomas Vancleave—b. about 1799.
                  
                    
            
         
         
         
            
               
                        Boone
                    -Mayfield Family in Indiana
            REUBEN N. MAYFIELD, M.D.
            Nine miles west of 
                  Bedford, Lawrence County
               , Indiana, on Indian Creek, there is an natural bridge
                    at the Dry Ford where the creek, one hundred feet wide, runs under the bluff four hundred feet high,
                    and forms a natural bridge, eight hundred feet wide and a half mile long.
            As one goes south towards the Dry Ford, he will see on the right a high, almost perpendicular bluff,
                    which is the north face of the Natural Bridge. At the old Dry Ford Crossing, to the left he will see
                    no water (except after a freshet) in the channel. When one crosses, at the right, he will see the
                    approach to the Natural Bridge.
            The Pioneers built a fairly good road over the top of the bridge to the 
                        Boone
                    -Mayfield settlement on the West side. This, road is not now in use. The south side of
                    the Natural Bridge is not as precipitous as the north side.
            A half mile farther south at the Mayfield Crossing, where the author was born, there is very little
                    water in the creek. This water comes from Big Blue Spring, and when there is high water for a few
                    days, pedestrians have trouble in crossing until the water "runs down" when they
                    can easily cross. At the present time, there are three bridge across Indian Creek within a distance
                    of three quarters of a mile—one at the old bridge, one at the Dry Ford, and one at the
                    Mayfield Crossing.
            Our ancestors, Jeremiah and Joyce (Neville) 
                        Boone
                    , came more than a hundred years ago (1817) and settled three miles north of this freak
                    of nature. (Twp. 5 N., R. 2 W., Lawrence Co., Ind.) The ancestry of Jeremiah Boone follows: 
                        George Boone, III—b. 1666, father of
                        George Boone, IV—b. 1690 (in 
                                England
                            ) father of
                        Josiah Boone—b. 1726 or 1727; d, 1814 at Glenn Creek (five miles south of 
                                Frankfort
                            ), 
                                Ky.
                            ; m. Hannah Hite 1760.
                        Children of Josiah and Hannah (Hite) 
                                Boone
                            : George, b. 1751; Noah, died young; Josiah, Jr., b. 1758; Jeremiah, b. Feb.
                            1760; Allison, died young; Ruth, b. 1770 and m. Pluright Sisk, 1790; Deborah (twin of Ruth),
                            never married; Ruhema, m. William Thompson. Heirs of Josiah, Sr., given in legal document:
                            George, Josiah, Jr., Jeremiah, Ruth, Deborah, Ruhemah.
                    
            
            Jeremiah Boone (listed above) died in 1832. He married Joyce Nevil on May 9, 1787, at
                            
                  Stanford, Kentucky
               . She was  born in 1768
                    and died in 1861. She was the daughter of James and Sarah Joyce Nevil. James Nevil was born in
                            
                  Prince William County, Virginia
               , in 1741. He served in the Revolutionary War under
                    Col. Edmonds and Capt. Martin Pickett as shown by the records of the Pension Bureau and other
                    records. In 1779, James Nevil went to 
                  Linncoln County,
                            Kentucky
               . Here he learned that the
                    British and Indians were on the warpath. The settlers were preparing for their first invasion into
                    what is now 
                        Ohio
                    . After the invasion into the Indian country, the troops returned to Harrodsburg, 
                        Kentucky
                    . The Indians came into 
                        Kentucky
                     and, in the fighting, a number of 
                        Kentucky
                     soldiers were killed, including Colonels Todd and Trigg. This left Col. Daniel Boone in
                    command of the local troops. He retreated, then rallied his troops and called for volunteers. Many
                    responded, among them Capt. Sam Kirkham and Jeremiah Boone.
            When James Nevil (or Neville) and family arrived at the little place Asaphs (afterwards changed to 
                        Stanford
                    ), they began to see familiar names: Col. Daniel Boone, the surveyor, Sam Kirkham on the
                    Grand Jury, and the name of Abraham Lincoln on the court record. Jeremiah Boone made visits to the
                    Nevil home often. Capt. George Mayfield and Lieut. Isaac Mayfield were also with the troops. James
                    Nevil and wife and Jeremiah Boone and family lived neighbors on Dix River from
                    1789 to 1796. Jeremiah bought three farms on Pitman Creek, Northeast of 
                  Somerset, Kentucky
               , in 1800. The children of Jeremiah and Joyce (Nevil) 
                        Boone
                     were: 
                        Sarah Boone—m. Isaac Wagner, at 
                        Somerset, Ky.
                      (A
                            descendant of this line is Mrs. Arthur P. McGee of 
                                Charleston
                            , S. C.)
                        Elijah Boone—m, Jennie Wagner. (Children: William, Jeremiah. Bethuel, Artemacy,
                            Isaac, Joyce, John.)
                        Simon—(no data).
                        Charlotte Boone—m, Reuben Mayfield at 
                        Somerset, Ky.
                     , Oct.
                            27, 1814. Charlotte—b. 1794; d, 1883.
                        Mahala—m. John Dishman. (A descendant is Mrs. Pearl Brown Thomas of Jasonville,
                            Ind.)
                        Hannah Boone—m, (1) Adam Morrow (Mw. F. P. Lemon, Shoals, Ind., is a daughter) and
                            (2) John Beaty, Owensburg, Ind. (Children: Dr. Marshall Beaty; Luther—m. Victoria
                            Short Owens; Ella, m, Charles Whitted.)
                        Noah Boone—m, Jane Rhoads. (Children: Clementine, m, Wesley Armstrong; Jeanette,
                            m, Abner Armstrong (brother of Wesley); Low m, John Short, son of Ezekiel Short; Daniel, m,
                            Nannie M. Ruston; Virgil, m, Luicinda Rector).
                    
            
            
            THE MAYFIELD FAMILY
            Reuben Mayfield (179–861) married Charlotte Boone (above). He was a soldier in the War of
                    1812, serving with Capt. Sam Tate, Maj. Taul, Gen. John E. King, and Governor Shelby at the Battle
                    of the Thames. He was the son of John Mayfield, Jr. (176–813) and, in 1790, married Mary
                    Wolfe (177–848). John Mayfield was a pioneer doctor. Mary's father Henry, and
                    his father Henry, Sr., fought at Fort 
                  Washington,
                            New York
               , where Henry Wolf, Sr., was
                    killed. John Mayfield, Jr., son of John Mayfield, Sr., was born in 
                  Albemarle County, Virginia
               , in
                    1745, and died in 
                  Pulaski County, Kentucky
               , in 1816. He served during the entire Revolutionary
                    War. His last service was with Gen. Daniel Morgan at Buckingham, 
                        Virginia
                    . John Mayfield married Clarinda Pleasants (174–821) in 1767. The Mayfield
                    Coat-of-Arms was granted to Owen Mayfield, Mayor and Alderman of 
                  Cambridge, England
               , in 1684.
            Alexander Campbell Mayfield, son of Reuben and Charlotte (
                        Boone
                    ) Mayfield was born on May 6, 1831, in Linton, Indiana. He was the ninth child in a
                    family of twelve children and was reared on his father's farm in 
                        Lawrence County
                    , Indiana. He married Winnie Short on Jan. 12, 1854, in the Short Home in Springville,
                    Indiana (Lawrence Co.). She was the daughter of 
                        Milton
                     and Mary (Tate) Short. Mary Tate was the daughter of Robert and Winnie (Atkinson) Tate,
                    and granddaughter of John and Mary (Bracken) Tate. John Tate, Revolutionary soldier and sheriff of
                            
                  Russell County, Virginia
               , died in 1828. All of his children migrakd to 
                        Kentucky
                    , except Joseph. 
                        Milton
                     Short, father of Winnie (who married Alexander Campbell Mayfield), was the son of
                    wesley and Rebecca (Owens) Short. Wesley was the son of John and Mary (Hansford) Short. John Short
                    was born in 1756 in Tigart Valley, 
                        Virginia
                     (now W. Va.). He was also a Revolutionary soldier. He is buried near Springville.
                        
                        
                     Children of Alezander Campbell and Winnie (Short) Mayfields Ila
                            Mayfield—b, 1864; m. John Evans.
                        Mary Charlotte Mayfield—b, 1857; m. Buenos Wheat Bailey. Reuben Newton
                            Mayfield—b. June 13, 1869; m. Patti Ayres, Feb. 27, 1908.
                        Inda Ilbsyfield—b, 1868; m. John Slater.
                    
            
            Patti Ayres, who married Dr. Reuben Newton Mayfield, was a daughter of John Ayres and Alice (Boyd)
                    Ayres. Patti was born in 
                        England
                     on June 8, 1876, and died January 14,  1821. The
                    maiden name of the mother of Alice Boyd was O'Neil. She was descended from the Earl of
                    Tyrone. Patti Ayres Mayfield was a noted concert singer, who toured extensively in the 
                        United States
                    , Mexico and elsewhere.
            Alexander Campbell Mayfield, was a farmer, and during his lifetime, owned several farms in 
                        Lawrence County
                    , Indiana. A ninety acre farm was given to him by his father Reuben Mayfield, and the
                    last two farms owned by him were near Springville, Indiana. He resided with his family many years on
                    the farm one mile east of this town, and his children usually walked to and from the school in
                    Springville, even during the cold winter weather. In 1861, he moved to Springville, and lived for
                    about twenty-three years, either here, or on the old Mayfield farm. In 1884, he migrated with his
                    son-in-law Buenos Wheat Bailey to 
                  Ferndale,
                            Washington
               , and died there in 1885. His
                    wife, Winnie Short Mayfield was born on December 10, 1836, in 
                        Lawrence County
                    , Indiana. She died in 1919 in 
                  Ferndale,
                            Whatcomb County, Washington
               .
            All my ancestors had an English Coat-of-Arms. Solomon 
                        Boone
                     recorded the 
                        Boone
                     Arms in the records of 
                  Bristol, Pennsylvania
               , in 1690. The name Bohun is of 
                        Norman
                     origin. The first family from Normandy settled in Lincolnshire, 
                        England
                    , and afterwards some of the name settled in Devonshire. It is from this latter family
                    that the American Boones are directly descended. The Bohun coat of arms, used before the fourteenth
                    century, was probably granted by a 
                        Norman
                    -English King. It is not until the middle of the sixteenth century that we find the
                    names Bohun and 
                        
                            Boone
                        
                     spelled both ways in the same document.1
            
            
               
                  1 The Mayfield Coat-of-Arms was granted to Owen Mayfield, Mayor and
                        Alderman of 
                     Cambridge, England
                  . in 1684. John and Robert Tab had been Lord Mayors of 
                            London
                         in early days. The Boones, the Shorts and de Nevilles (French). were followers of
                        William the Conqueror. George Boone III. was the grandfather of Josiah Boons. Sr., and also of
                        Daniel Boone. A short history of my ancestor, I filed in the Library of Congress in 1901. In
                        193–3, I wrote fifty chapters for the Mountain Branch V et.
                        published at 
                     Johnson City, Tenn.
                  , on the Life of Daniel Boone. These are on file in
                        the Astor and Congressional Libraries. In 1934, I had made ten dozen portraits of Daniel Boone.
                        taken from the only life painting ever made of him. They were placed in all the large libraries
                        of the country and in all the libraries along the Wilderness Road—Reuben N. Mayfield.
                                
                     Editor'a Note: Dr. Reuben Newtan Mayfield was born in 
                                Lawrence
                             Co., Ind., and educated in the local schools. He taught eight year in high
                            school. He was graduated with the degree of M.D., in 1880, from Long Island College
                            Hospital, N.Y., and from the Rush Medical College, 
                                Chicago
                            , in 1883, devoting his life to medicine and surgery. In 1886, he went to 
                                Colorado
                            , where he enlisted in the 
                                Colorado State
                             Militia, in 1886. On June 1, 1889, he was appointed Major and Surgeon. He was
                            placed on the retired list. May 6, 1912, at his own request. He was in active service during
                            many of the long series of mining strikes in 
                                Colorado
                            . He was a professor of Pathology, Hygiene and Clinical Medicine at the
                            University of 
                                Colorado
                             for some time, and Surgeon for the Union Pacific R.R. from 18861891. He
                            traveled extensively in Europe and Mexico. While in 
                                England
                            , he visited the old town of Mayfield. 
                                England
                            . and many of the historical places in that country, where his ancestors once
                            resided. He has spent many years in cereful research proving bin family lines, and we are
                            fortunate in having the privilege of recording from his many notes and research this Indiana
                            family ancestry. Dr. Mayfield has resided in 
                        Seattle, Washington
                     , for
                            the last twenty-five years.—Martha Tucker Morris.
               
            
         
         
         
            Queries and Answers
            Query 42: TRIBLE FAMILY
            John Trible, Sr., came to 
                        Ky.
                     from 
                        Va
                     in 1824, and later entered land in the 
                        Vincennes
                     District of Ind. He married Martha Medley of N. C. and 
                        Ky.
                     Children: John, born, 1796; George, born, 1796; Elijah, born, 1798; Mary, born, 1800;
                    Samuel, born, 1802; Lucy, born, 1805. There was another son, the fourth child, who became a
                    minister. Samuel, married Hannah Brazelton. We are trying to trace the ancestry of the Trible family
                    back to the emigrant and any help will be appreciated.—M.R.E.
            Query 43: BIERLY FAMILY
            Jacob Bierly and wife Elizabeth (perhaps Elizabeth Frank) owned 322 acres in Rowan Co., N. C., on
                    Pounders Fork, a branch of Abbott's Creek, as shown by record of Dec. 11, 1761. They had
                    four sons: Jacob, Martin, Peter and David. Jacob was born in 1772 and died in 1846. He married
                    Elizabeth Grimes, daughter of Gottlieb Grimes of Rowan Co., N. C., who died in 1846. Any information
                    about this family will assist in completing the records being compiled by present members in
                    Indiana.—Z.A.
            Query 44: WISEMAN FAMILY
            Isaac Wiseman married Mary Wilson about 1785 (possibly 1786 or 1787). They lived in 
                        Penn.
                    , perhaps in 
                        Cumberland
                     Co., before the Revolutionary War. His will was probated in 1779 at 
                        Salisbury
                    , N. C. Mary Wilson was born about 1770, but do not know her parentage. Her will was
                    probated in 1791 at 
                        Salisbury
                    , N. C. The father of Isaac Wiseman was Jacob Wiseman, Sr., whose wife's name
                    was Elizabeth. He was a Revolutionary soldier. Maiden name of Elizabeth is wanted.—Z.A.
            Query 45: WILLIAMS FAMILY
            Fielding Williams lived in 
                        Madison
                    , or 
                        New Madison
                    , Ind., prior to 1850. He probably came from 
                        Va.
                     Want any information known in regard to this Williams family, with dates, names and
                    places of residence—L.L.D.
            Query 46: COLE-BRADFORD FAMILY
            John Cole (son of Jesse Cole) died in May, 1870. He married, about 1844, Rachel Bradford, daughter of
                    Judge  William Braford of 
                        Bloomfield
                    , Ind., 
                        Greene County
                    . The ancestry of John Cole and his wife Rachel Bradford Cole is
                    wanted.—E.M.C.
            Query 47: LIGHT-MOORE FAMILY
            Tyce (Mathias) Light was born in S.C. on June 7, 1769. He was a son of Jacob Light, who died in 
                        Anderson
                     Co., S.C. Tyce Light moved to Harrison Co., Ind., about 1807, and died there about
                    1826. He was married in S. C. to Mary Catherine Moore (born Feb. 12, 1774), a daughter of Hugh and
                    Sarah Moore. She moved to 
                        Clay
                     Co., Ind., to be with her children. She is buried in 
                        Franklin
                     Twp. of that County. Dates of death and marriage of Tyce Light and his wife, Mary
                    Catherine (Moore) Light wanted—L.D.P.
            Query 48: INGRAM FAMILY
            James Ingram lived in Jefferson Co., Saluda Twp., Ind. His will was probated in 1822. It names his
                    wife Hannah and his son James. His daughters names were Elizabeth, Hannah, Jane, Polly, Nancy, and
                    Lydia. His son James married Nancy Austin and served in the war of 1812. A James Ingram served in
                    the Revolutionary War from 
                        Northampton
                     Co., 
                        Va.
                    , but we can not determine from the record whether this man is the same James Ingram who
                    came to Jefferson Co., Ind., or not. Any information to aid in proving the record will be
                    appreciated.—M.H.
            Query 49: ANDERSON FAMILY
            John Anderson, son of Thomas Anderson settled in southern Ind. on the Ohio
                    river. He followed "boating" between 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        New Orleans
                    . He had three sons, and other younger children whose names are not known. Records
                    state, however that he reared a large family. John is believed to have been born about 1770. His
                    father, Thomas Anderson, and his family, except John, migrated to 
                        Fairfield
                     Co., 
                        Ohio
                    , from 
                        Va.
                    , perhaps from Hampshire Co. Thomas died in 1806 in 
                        Fairfield
                     Co., 
                        Ohio
                    . If any one in Indiana can identify this John Anderson and his family, it will help to
                    solve many problem.—H.E.
            Answer to Query 32 (June, 1937, p. 250, L.G.K.) The name Gwyn is also spelled Gwin. I have found a record of Robert Gwin of 
                        Va.
                    , died about 1840, who married Sarah Lockridge. His eldest son was named Joseph. Other
                    children  were: Andy, Samuel, Robert, Jane, Margaret, Mary and
                    William. The family seems to be of 
                        Bath
                     Co., 
                        Va.
                     The Census of 1790, under 
                        Virginia
                    , gives the family name spelled Gwyn, in 
                        Kingston
                     Parish, Gloucester Co., 
                        Va.
                     Two men named Robert Gwyn are listed. Others listed are: Hugh, James, John, Henry,
                    Hugh, John, Jno, Harry and Humphrey.—Mrs. O. P. Goodwin, 418 E. Harrison St., 
                        Charleston
                    , Ill.
            Answer to Query 33 (June, 1937, p. 250, C.E.K.) Near Ashmore, Ill., on the farm of Edward Swartz, R.
                    R. 2, near the County Farm, I am told is the grave of a Revolutionary soldier, William Barnes. The
                    grave is marked by a concrete wall about a foot high but there is no other marking. This soldier had
                    a son Enos, b. 1785. He married in Ind., Nancy Collett, of N.C. She died in 1855, aged 50 years.
                    Enos came from 
                        Ky.
                     to Ind. and then to Ill. He died in 1872 in Coles Co. A History of Coles
                        Co., Ill. (1887), gives the children of Enos and Nancy (Collett) Barnes as follows. Rowann,
                    m. L. F. Smith; Temple Ann, m. William S. Childress; 
                        Granville
                    , m. Sarah Welsh; Milton W., m. (1) Mary S. Goodnight and (2) Martha Hoffman; Fountain
                    H., m. Mary Sackett; Elizabeth, m. J. B. Zimmerman; 
                        Randolph
                    , m. Louisa Ashmore; Emeline, m. Arthur Welsh; Huston M., d. in the Civil War. Huston
                    Barnes was born near Ashmore, Ill., Aug 9, 1836.
            Answer to Query 34 (June 1937, p. 251, E.M.C.) The William Cox of this query is believed to have been
                    the father of William and John Cox. A William Cox and wife, Amy, were living in 
                  Newcastle County, Delaware
               , in 1719, as shown by deeds. "William Aubrey of 
                        London
                    , Great Brittian, merchant, and Letitia, his wife, parties of the first part, Samuel
                    Logan of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , parties of the second part, and William Cocks of 
                  Newcastle County, Delaware
               ,
                    yeoman." (G. I. p. 115, 10 May, 1721, 300 acres) The deeds show that William Penn, granted
                    the Manor of Henning on the south side of Brandy-wine Creek, said Manor being partly in
                            
                  Chester County, Penn.
               , and partly in 
                  Newcastle
                        County, Delaware
               , to his daughter
                    Letitia Aubrey, wife of William Aubrey, and that it was part of this manor, that was conveyed to
                    William Cocks, and was located in 
                        Newcastle County
                    , Del. Another conveyance between the same parties for more land in the same manor was
                    conveyed to William Cocks on July 10, 1721. John Cox, administrator of the estate of his father
                    William Cox, deceased,  conveyed to William Patterson, May 18,
                    1743, a portion of the Penn Tract. He produced the accounts of his administration and was discharged
                    by the court. A deed (Feb. 19, 1734) shows that William Cox and his wife Amy, conveyed to William
                    Cox, farmer, living near Hockessin in Mill Creek Hundred of 
                  Newcastle County, Delaware
               ,
                    land on Christiana Creek. William Cox, son of William and Amy, married Catherine Kankey. They were
                    the parents of ten children. William Cox, his five sons, and two of his daughters, emigrated to 
                        North Carolina
                     early in the seventeen fifties. (Descendants in Indiana, and other
                    states).—Mrs. Emma M. Cox, Cathcart Apts., 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Answer to Query 29 (June, 1937, p. 250, L.D.P.) The Register of the 
                        Kentucky State
                     Historical Society (January, 1932, XGX, 9–9) has an intersting article
                    ‘The Collins' and Prewitts'," by Emma Beard Nunnelly. In this
                    sketch the writer, states the Elisha Prewitt, my great-great-grandfather, Revolutionary soldier,
                    married Tabitha Collins of 
                        Virginia
                    , probably of 
                        Halifax County
                    . The brothers of Tabitha Collins are given as follows: Joseph, Josiah, Stephen, Elijah,
                    and Elisha. Josiah was born in 
                        Halifax
                     Co., 
                        Va.
                    , on May 2, 1757. He and his brother came to 
                        Ky.
                     before Oct. 1778. The children of Elisha and Tabitha (Collins) Prewitt were: Joseph who
                    married Patsy Elliot on Dec. 19, 1796 (
                        Shelby
                     Co. 
                        Ky.
                     records) Frances who married John Elliot on April 5, 1796 (
                        Shelby
                     Co., 
                        Ky.
                    ) 
                        Shelby
                     who married Lucy Darnell on Feb. 6, 1823 (Woodford Co., 
                        Ky.
                    ); Lucy; Christiana; Elisha, Jr.; Tabitha, who married Stephen Waller on Dec. 14,1788 (
                        Shelby
                     Co., 
                        Ky.
                    ); and Beverley, who married Martha Ann West (great-grandparents of Mrs. Nunnelly).
                    Josiah, Elisha and Stephen Collins, were among the first lobowners of 
                  Lexington, Ky.
               
                    This articles does not give parentage of this Collins family, but will help in securing data wanted.
                    Collins, History of 
                        Kentucky
                     (Richard H. Collins edition, two volumes), Vol. 11, "Mason Co."
                    "Gen. Richard Collins (son of Rev. John Collins, one of the most distinguished and eloquent
                    pioneer ministers of M. E. Church in southern 
                        Ohio
                    ) was born in N. J. on June 3, 1797. He was liberally educated; died May 12, 1855, aged
                    58 years. Gen. Collins was married in 1823 to Mary Armstrong, whom he survived by 8
                    years."—M.T.M.
         
         
         
            Bible Records
            STEPHEN HARVEY FAMILY
            
            
               Record of Stephen Harvey, Jr.:1
                    
                        
                     Stephen Harvey was born (not legible).
                     Jemima Weatherby was born November the 26th day 1784 [married Stephen Harvey].
                     Rachel Harvey was born October 22, 1806, on the fourth day of the week.
                     Perlina Harvey was born February the 27, 1808, on the seventh day of the week.
                     Delano Harvey was born December the 2, 1809, on the first day of the week.
                     Samuel Harvey was born November the 14, 1810, on the fourth day of the week.
                     Stephen Harvey was born October the 6, 1811, on the third day of the week.
                     Stephen Harvey deceased on April 20th Day, 1811.
                     Jemima Harvey [widow of Stephen Harvey,] and David Fitz Randolph were mar. (not
                                legible)
                     Note: The children of Stephen and Jemima Harvey were born in 
                                    New York
                                . The last two, at least, were born in Seneca or 
                                    Tompkins County
                                . This family lived in 
                                    Sehlby County
                                , Ind., for many years. Jemima died in 
                           Polk
                                        County, Iowa
                        ,
                                Sept., 1852. They moved to 
                                    Shelby County
                                , Ind., in 1821.
                  
                    
            
            
               Record of Stephen Harvey, Jr.: 
                        
                     Stephen Harvey was born October the 6th, 1811
                     Elizabeth (ink faded) was born Jan. the 2nd, 1811; married October the 31, 1833.
                     Nancy Ann Harvey was born April the 24th, 1836, on the 2nd day of the week.
                     Lewis Harvey was born June the 12, 1837, on the 2nd day of the week.
                     Elizabeth Harvey deceased November 9, 1838. Susan Lee was born July the loth, 1827.
                     Stephen Harvey and Susan Lee were married July the 27, 1842.
                     Samuel Harvey was born May 24, 1843.
                     Elizabeth Harvey was born October the 27th, 1844.
                     Maria Harvey was born June the 7th, 1846, on the 7th day of the week.
                     Jemima Harvey was born January the 12th, 1848, on the 4th day of the week.
                     Theophilus Harvey was born Dec. the 26th day, 1861.
                     Richard Harvey was born January 26th, 1855.
                     Sarah Jane Harvey was born December the 26th day, 1866.
                  
                        
                     
                        1 This record was copied by Mrs. Lawrence Jack, 2626 Garfield
                                Road, 
                           Spokane. Washington
                        . Mrs. Jack in Corresponding Secretary of
                                the Eastern 
                                    Washington
                                 Genealogist Society. The entries in the original record are badly faded,
                                and some records are torn out.
                  
                        
                        
                     Hannah Viretta Harvey was born December the 26th day, 1861.
                     Samuel Harvey died February, 1843 [1844].
                     Richard Harvey died August the loth, 1866.
                  
                    
            
            ROBERTSON FAMILY1
            
            
                    Charles Robertson was married to Miss Nancy Ford on Sept. 16, 1798.2
               
                    
                  Children: 
                     Sally and Franky Robertson (twins)—b. Aug. 24, 1799.
                     Eliza Robertson—b. July 16, 1800.
                     Alexander Robertson—b. April 10, 1802.
                     Matilda Robertson—b. Feb. 9, 1805.
                     James Robertson—b. Aug. 11, 1807.
                     Margaret Robertson—b. Dec. 14, 1809.
                     Reuben Robertson—b. May 30, 1812.
                     David Robertson—b. Sept. 6, 1814.
                     William Robertson—b. Dec. 13, 1817.
                     Reuben Robertson was married to Elvira Littell, daughter of Elder John T. Littell on
                                May 23, 1833.
                     Elvira Littell was born Nov. 24, 1816.
                  
               
                    
                  Children: 
                     Robert Alexander Robertson—b. Feb. 19, 1834.
                     John Thompson Robertson—b. Sept. 3, 1836.
                     Nancy Malissa Robertson—b. Feb. 4, 1837.
                     Mary Matilda Robertson—d. Oct. 16, 1839, age 2 mo., 6 d.
                     Charles Milburn Robertson—b. Sept. 20, 1841.
                     Sarah Jane Robertson—b. Dec. 6, 1843.
                     Reuben Edgar and Elvira Isadore Robertson (twins)—b. Feb. 26, 1861.
                     Joseph Orlando Robertson—b. Oct. 8, 1863.
                     Margaret Emma Robertson—b. July 4, 1866.
                  
               
                    
                  Deaths: 
                     Departed this life, Our Mother, Nancy Robertson, Mar. 2,1860; aged 83 years, 8 mo., 8
                                days; who lived the life of a Christian, died in the triumph of the Christian faith, and
                                is now enjoying the reward of her labors.
                     Robert Alexander Robertson—d. Oct. 16, 1836, age 1 yr., 7 mo., 23 d.
                     Mary Matilda Robertson—d. Oct. 16, 1839, age 2 mo., 6 days.
                     Elvira Isadore Robertson—d. July 4, 1863, age 2 yr., 4 mo., 9 d.
                     Reuben Edgar Robertson—d. July 8, 1863, age 2 yr., 4 mo., 13 d.
                     Joseph Orlando Robertson—d. Aug, 1854;——
                     Margaret Emma Robertson—d. Oct. 13, 1868, age 3 yr., 2 mo., 19 d.
                     Elder Charles M. Robertson—d. Dec. 10, 1883, age 41 yrs., 2 mo., 20
                            d.
                  
               
                
            
               
                  1 From the Bible of Reuben Robertson, published 1855, now in ossesion of
                        his Brandson, James Arthur Robertson. 
                            Salem
                        . Indiana Copied by Lulie Davi., 806 80. High St., 
                            Salem
                        , Indiana.
               
                  2 This date in incorrect—should be Dec. 14, 1797.
            
            
            
               Complete List of Robertson buried in Robertson Cemetery:3
                    
                        
                     David Robertson—d. July 25, 1865; age 50 yrs., 10 m., 19 days.
                     Margaret, wife of D. Robertson—b. Feb. 23, 1815; d. May 13, 1883.
                     Nancy, wife of Charles Robertson—4. Mar. 2, 1860; age 83 yrs. 8 mo., 8
                                days.
                     James N. Wood—b. Feb. 20, 1839; d. May 6, 1869.
                     John M. Wood—b. July 24, 1808; d. Mar. 28, 1869.
                     Margaret, wife of John M. Wood—b. Dec. 14, 1809; d. Oct. 10, 1862.
                     Alexander Robertson—b. Apr. 10, 1803; d. Mar. 23, 1864.
                     Charlie, son of Nancy and George W. Stout—b. Aug. 7, 1870; d. Feb. 5, 1874.
                     Micah Burns—b. Sept. 24, 1794; d. Sept. 21, 1876.
                     Frances, wife of M. Burns—b. Aug. 24, 1799; d. July 21, 1874.
                     Reginald Howard Burns—b. Feb. 27, 1889; d. Aug. 6, 1890.
                     
                        
                                    Marion
                                 Regina Burns—b. Feb. 27, 1889; d. Aug. 6, 1890.
                     Oscar L. Robertson—son of C. B. and M. C. Robertson. d. Nov, 18, 1878; age
                                6 mo., 16 days.
                     Charles B. Robertson—b. Nov. 1, 1842; d. June 27, 1888.
                     Mary, wife of C. B. Robertson—b. Mar. 5, 1853; d. Jan. 21, 1884.
                  
                    
            
            ELISHA B. LEE FAMILY
            
                    Age Paper of Elisha B. Lee:
                    
                        
                     Elisha B. Lee was born March the fourth day, 1796.
                     Maria Everson was born November the 15 day, 1799.
                     Elisha B. Lee and Maria Everson were married September the 9 day, 1819. 
                           Richard M. Lee was born, June the 27 day, 1820.
                           Sophia Lee was born, February the 15 day, 1822.
                           Joseph K. Lee was born, June the 13 day, 1824.
                           Susanna Lee was born, July the 10th day, 1827.
                           William W. Lee was born, March the 26th day, 1830.
                           Lavinna Lee was born, February the 27th day, 1832.
                           Elizabeth Rudisill Lee was born, April the 19th day, 1835.
                           Maria Lee was born, May the 20th day, 1839.
                           John N. Lee was born, April the 4th day, 1839.
                           Eliza Ann Lee was born, June the 10th day, 1841.
                        
                     
                     Elisha B. Lee and Harriet Hughes were married, October the 1st day, 1844. [The first
                                wife died from child-birth, May 29, 18441. 
                           Martha Hughes was born, March the 1st day, 1840.
                           Thomas G. Hughes was born, January the 28 day, 1843.
                           George Snyder Lee was born, July the 22d day, 1845.
                           Marshall Lee was born, September the 19th day, 1847.
                           Charles W. Lee was born, May the 6th day, 1849.
                           Harriet Lee was born, September the 10th day, 1852.
                           Mary Francis Lee was born, July the 9th day, 1855.
                           Sarah Isabel Lee was born, February the 2d, 1857.
                        
                                
                           
                              3 The Robertson Cemetery is in Wood Townap. 
                                            Clark County
                                        . Indiana. It 18 located on the farm acquired from the Federal
                                        Government by Charles Robertson. It, was later owned by David Robertson, son of
                                        Charles. then by David's son. Charles B. Robertson. The next owner,
                                        William Todd. Copied by Lulie Davis.
                        
                                
                                
                           Sophia Everson departed this life, April the 16th day, 1820.
                           Amos R. Everson departed this life, September the 28th day, 1829.
                           Maria Lee departed this life, May the 29th day, 1844, and the child the same
                                        day.
                           Levina Lee dearted this life, July the 2d day, 1845.
                           Eliza Ann Lee departed this life, July the 15th day, 1845.
                           George Snyder Lee departed this life, August the 10th day, 1851.
                           Harriet Hughes Lee departed this life, September the 22nd, 1862 [Second wife
                                        of Elisha B. Lee].
                           Mary Lee departed this life, March the 10th dnay, 1868.
                           Elisha B. Lee and Martha Keefe were married, Nov. the 8th, 1868. 
                                 Ella Lee born, January the 18th day, 1870.
                                 Ella Lee departed this life, Jan. 4th day, 1872.
                                 Elmer O. Lee was born on June 17, 1872.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     Elisha B. Lee departed this life, September the 5th day, 1872, and is buried in the
                                old Harvey graveyard in 
                                    Delaware
                                 Twp., 
                           Polk County, Iowa
                        . He was o soldier in the war of
                                1812. [This entry is written in a different hand].
                  
                    
                
         
         
         
            Roster of Revolutionary Soldiers Buried in Indiana
            MRS. ROSCOE C. O'BYRNE
               1
            
            The compilation of a Roster of the Revolutionary Soldiers who are buried in Indiana, has been a state
                    project of the Indiana Daughters of the American Revolution since November, 1934. The publication of
                    such a Roster will be 2 tribute to the pioneers of this state and at the same time it will be of
                    material assistance to the many persons endeavoring to trace ancestry.
            Other patriots as well as soldiers are included in the Roster for there were many men and women who
                    gave service to their county in other ways than on the "firing line", and these
                    persons are being listed along with the soldiers. The data required on each are: date and place of
                    birth and death; service record with proof; location of grave and how marked; name of wife (or
                    wives) and children. Family tradition is not regarded as sufficient proof for service. Blanks have
                    been printed and may be had upon request by notifying the chairman.
            D.A.R. Chapters have been asked and are expected to do the necessary research for the soldiers in the
                    counties in which the chapters are located, but assistance is sought from others having information.
                    Members of the Indiana Historical Society, Indiana Pioneers, and Indiana S.A.R. have given
                    invaluable assistance, as have also Miss Anna Poucher and her corps of workers of the Genealogy
                    Section of the State Library.
            Every available source of information is being sought in order that complete records of the soldiers
                    and patriots may be published. Early wills and deed records, Probate Court Records, early marriage
                    records, newspapers and county histories are all being read. Pension records of all the pensioners
                    listed for Indiana are being secured from the Bureau in 
                        Washington
                    . This has resulted in correcting many family traditions that certain ancestors were
                    soldiers in the Revolution War.
            To date over twelve hundred records have been received. 
                  Benton, DeKalb, Kosciusko, Newton, Pulaski, Tipton, Wabash
               
                    
                  
                     1 Mrs. O'Byrne 912 Main St., 
                                Brookville
                            . Indiana, is chairman of the Committes of the Indiana D.X.R. on publication of
                            the roster of Revolutionary War veterans, who are buried in Indiana.
               
                     and White counties have reported no revolutionary soldiers or
                    patriots buried within ntheir boundaries. Thirty-three pensioners have been traced outside of the
                    state, and thirty-nine pensioners have been found of wars other than the Revolutionary war.
            Mrs. Theodore Craven, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Mrs. Martha Tucker Morris, Salem, both D.A.R. and both accredited gen-alogists are
                    members of the Roster Committee and will give invaluable help because of their experience in
                    genalogical research.
            If you, who are reading this article, can supply information on one or several soldiers buried in
                    Indiana, please write the Chairman. To show the type of material being compiled, the records of two
                    soldiers are here given as illustrations:
            
               Lieutenant Lemuel Snow: 
                        
                     Born—Dec. 7, 1759, at Barnstable, Cape Cod, Mass.
                     Service—Enlisted at age of 16 from 
                                    Boston
                                , Mass., and served continuously until end of war. Made Lieutenant when 18
                                years old. Discharged Oct., 1781. Was engaged in several major battles. Was at
                                    Valley Forge. Witnessed the execution not Major Andre, the
                                evacuation of 
                                    New York
                                 by the British, and was with the Army at 
                                    Newburgh
                                 when it was disbanded by 
                                    Washington
                                .
                     Proof—Mass. Soldiers and Sailors, Vol. IV, p. 617; Jierces'Register; Heitman's Historical
                                    Register, p. 509
                     Grave—Snow Hill Cemetery, Whitewater Twp., 
                                    Franklin
                                 Co., Ind. Died Sept. 3, 1824. Family stone and S.A.R. marker placed by
                                Harry Gale Nye, a descendant.
                     Married—Mar. 10, 1786, to Lydia Hodges. Children—ha, Lydia,
                                Joseh, Lemuel, Hannah, Hercules, Betsey, Dinnnie, Betsey, Mary Hussey, Salome, Sophronie
                                Crocker (twin of Salome), Nymphas, and Abigail Phinney.
                  
                    
            
            
               Andrew Shirk: 
                        
                     Born—Sept. 7, 1753, 
                                    Switzerland
                                .
                     Service—Private in Capt. George Nagle's Company of Col. William
                                Thompson's battalion of riflemen and in active service from June, 1776, for one
                                year. Private in Capt. Henry Bicker's Company of Tenth regiment of 
                                    Penn.
                                 Line in 1776, 1777, and 1778.
                     Proof—
                                    Penn.
                                 Archives, 2nd Series, Vol. X, pp. 33 and 727.
                     Grave—Big Cedar Cemetery, 
                                    Franklin
                                 Co., Ind. Died Jan. 14, 1829. Family monument.
                     Married—1820, Martha Hamilton. Children—John, David, Andrew,
                                Joseh, Samuel (179–869, m. Elizabeth Stout), Isaac, Nancy, and Martha.
                  
                    
            
            
               Attention: All contributions for Indiana Genealogy should be typed to avoid
                    mistakes in names and dates. They must be  signed and the
                    address of sender given. All queries should be brief and definite. Answers for publication will be
                    apperciated. In connection with any answer, the date of the Magazine and the
                    number of the query answered should be given Traditions must be verified. Bible and other records
                    are requested for publication. Mail copy for Indiana Genealogy to Mrs. Martha Tucker Moms, 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana.
         
      
   
