
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 10, Issue 2, pages 1-103. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:10+issue:2+year:1914&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Home Life in Early Indiana
            By WILLIAM FREDERICK VOGEL, Superintendent of Schools, 
                        North Vernon
                    , Indiana
            CHAPTER I. THE HOME
            One of the most difficult things for either the writer or reader of history Is to picture to his mind
                    the living conditions of the age under consideration. In this day of ease and convenience one seldom
                    can, and more rarely does recall, how the people of Indiana lived three quarters of a century ago.
                    It requires some effort of imagination to visualize an ox team on a muddy road in the depth of an
                    unbroken forest. To realize what a trip from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                     in an ox wagon was like ninety years ago requires more effort than most of us care to
                    bestow.
            Without this realization of the actual conditions of existence one cannot hope to attain a
                    sympathetic appreciation of the history of any people. The following article is published in the
                    belief that it will transport the reader back to pioneer times.—Ed.
            LOCATION OF THE HOUSE
            The location of the pioneer's home was a matter of no little concern. Good drainage and an
                    abundant water supply were the chief considerations, as upon these health and life depended. If
                    there was a creek in the neighborhood the settler usually pitched his cabin on a bit of ground
                    bordering the stream, for in that way he secured a natural drainage. If no creek was near, he
                    selected the highest and driest hill or knoll on his purchase, provided of course that it contained
                    a spring of running water. Springs were more numerous then than at present. The thick, leafy carpet
                    of  the woods acted as a kind of sponge which absorbed the rain
                    as it fell and later gave it up gradually to feed the numerous springs and streams, very many of
                    which flowed all summer long. Around the cabin in all directions as far as the eye could see (until
                    clearings had been made) were great green trees, lifting their tall, stately columns to the sky.
                    Their thick heavy foliage shut out the sunlight from the ground until frost laid bare the boughs.
                    Underneath in many places was a dense thicket of spice wood, hazel-bushes, briars, young saplings,
                    and other underbrush and, lying here and there, were fallen tree trunks rotting into soil.
            THE HALF-FACED CAMP
            Many of the early settlers lived for a few months, and some of the less enterprising even for a few
                    years, in what was then called a half-faced camp.1 This temporary home was
                    hastily constructed to afford shelter to the family while they were engaged in the more necessary
                    work of preparing the ground and planting and tending the first crop of Indian corn. The structure
                    was made by placeing two large strong forks in the ground at a proper distance from a fallen tree to
                    make a twelve or fourteen foot pen. Next a pole was placed from fork to fork, and other poles from
                    that one to the log as closely as desired. Over these a thick layer of brush was piled to serve as-
                    a roof. The two sides were filled with logs which were rolled up. The fourth side, usually facing
                    the south, was left open. During cold weather a great fire was made at this open end, and the family
                    slept with their feet toward it, their heads toward the fallen tree. Skins also were hung at this
                    opening to keep out the rain and the cold; often too the sides were covered and lined inside with
                    skins of animals. This was a crude shelter but it served the settler until he had time and means to
                    construct a better home. Abraham Lincoln's 
                        Spencer county
                     home was one of these half-faced camps.
            CABIN OF THE EARLIER PERIOD
            The pioneer of the earlier period with his pressing needs was not able to construct an elaborate
                    cabin. Later, when he had accumulated some wealth, when his clearing had been extended and 
                  
                     1 William A. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            p. 161.
               
                     he had a stock of domestic animals and a supply of grain and
                    food, he would turn his attention to a more commodious dwelling. This fact produced two stages in
                    pioneer home building.
            The cabins of the early period were rough and crude. The majority of the first settlers were young
                    men just married, who had come boldly into the western wilderness with their wives and a little
                    personal property. When they had found a suitable home-Jiglil the cabin was constructed forthwith.
                    After the logs had been cut, the settler and his friends dragged them together and put them into a
                    clumsy, box-like, one-room structure. The roof was made of clap-boards rived from white oak, and the
                    boards were held in place by weight poles. Cracks between the logs were filled with pieces of timber
                    wedged in and the whole daubed over with mud. A hole the proper size of a door was cut in the side,
                    and often the shutter was a bear skin. The fireplace and the chimney were built on the outside at
                    the end of the cabin. An opening of the proper width was cut through three or four logs, then a
                    three sided crib was built up joining the building. The inside of this crib was lined with layer
                    upon layer of mud to make it solid and prevent any danger of fire. The floor of the building was
                    easily constructed–it was nothing more than mother earth. In this crude, shelter the
                    early settler, his wife and his children, lived and laid the foundation for a great estate.2
            
            Baynard Hall in his New Purchase gives a terse description of one of those
                    primitive cabins.2 "It was, in truth, a barbarous rectangle of unhewed
                    and unbarked logs, and bound together by a gigantic devetailing called notching. The roof was thick,
                    rickety shingles, called clap-boards; which, when clapped on were held down by longitudinal poles
                    kept apart by shorter pieces placed between them perpendicularly. The interstices of the log walls
                    were 'chinked,' the 'chinking' being large chips and small
                    slabs, dipping like strata of rocks in geology, and then on the 'chinking' was
                    'daubing,' viz., a sufficient quantity of yellow clay ferociously splashed in soft
                    by the hand of the architect, and then left to harden at its leisure." The chimney was
                    outside the house and a short distance from it. It was built of logs reposing upon one another at
                    their corners and topped off with flag stones. It was moreover daubed, and so admirably as to look
                    like a mud stack.
            
               
                  2 Hall, The New Purchase, I, 60. Banta, History of 
                                Johnson County
                            
                  , p, 245 ff.
            
            
            HOUSE OF THE LATER PERIOD
            After the settler had become established, and the country had been more extensively settled, more
                    commodious homes2 were built. A suitable location having been obtained, the work
                    of construction progressed rapidly. Various woods were used–sugartree, maple, beech, ash,
                    poplar, and hickory. Trees of uniform size were selected, cut into logs of the desired length,
                    usually twelve to fifteen feet, and hauled to the chosen spot. On a day appointed, the available
                    neighbors assembled for the "house raising" when fun and pleasures were mingled
                    with the hard labor; in fact such occasions were usually regarded as holidays. Bach log was saddled
                    and notched so that it would fit down as close as possible. The foundation logs were carefully
                    placed in a level position, and upon them the puncheon floor was laid. The puncheons were large
                    slabs of hard wood, sometimes three or four inches thick, and five or six feet long. They were
                    smoothed on the upper side with an adz, so that they usually made a smooth, level floor. The logs of
                    the wall were laid on and fitted together as closely as possible to lessen the size of the cracks
                    and strengthen the structure. The chinks, or places between the logs were filled with sticks split
                    to fit the crevices as snugly as possible, and then were plastered over with tough clay or mortar.
                    This shut out the weather effectually. The rude logs often put out leaves and the cabin sometimes
                    presented the appearance of a green bower. The usual height of the building was seven or eight feet.
                    The gables were formed by the shortening of the logs gradually at each end of the building as the
                    top approached. A roof was made by laying stout poles suitable distances apart, generally two and a
                    half feet, from gable to gable. On these poles the clap-boards were laid, and were fastened down by
                    weight poles which were held in place by "knees," pieces of wood fitting between
                    the poles near the ends. The fireplace was formed either by leaving a place in the wall or by
                    cutting an opening after the walls were in position. From this opening a three-sided enclosure of
                    small split logs was built outward. Inside this enclosure was a similar temporary one, built with a
                    space of twelve to fifteen inches between 
                  
                            2 Hall, The Hew Purchase, I, 60. Levering, Historic Indiana, p. 64. Turpie, Sketches of My Own
                                Times, p. 2.
                            Indiana Magazine of History, III, p. 126 ff. Cockrum, A
                                Pioneer History of Indiana, p. 64. 
               
                     the two sets of walls; and into this space moist clay was
                    firmly pounded and left to dry. When the false wall was removed or burned away, the clay formed the
                    protecting back for the fire place, extending four or five feet up. Upon and above this was built
                    the chimney, either of stone or sticks. Rived sticks heavily plastered with mud were the usual
                    materials. The chimney was gradually tapered to the proper size for securing a good draft, and then
                    built up until it was higher than the roof. The hearth and the bottom of the fire place were made by
                    filling in the triangular crib with wet clay to the level of the cabin floor. This was pounded with
                    a maul until hard and firm, then wet with water and scraped ivith a wooden scraper.
            A few log cabins and more often, the early taverns, were built two stories high, but this was not
                    usual.
            The fire places were from five to ten feet wide and occupied almost one entire end of the house.3 They were often large enough to receive firewood six or eight feet long, and
                    sometimes the back log was as large as a sawlog. There was a reason for this, for the more quickly
                    the pioneer could burn up the wood on his land, the more quickly he could have it cleared and ready
                    for cultivation. While the cabin was being built openings for the windows and doors were sawed in
                    the walls. Slabs fastened to the ends of these logs by wooden pins served as frames for the opening.
                    At a later period glass was sometimes used for the windows, but the usual material was greased
                    paper; even greased deerskin was sometimes used. The door, made of thick rived boards of the proper
                    length across which heavy battens were pinned was hung on great wooden hinges. Sometimes it was made
                    of clapboards pinned to two or three wooden bars. A heavy wooden latch was attached to the door.
                    This latch could be raised from the outside by the proverbial latch string, which passed through a
                    hole, and hung on the outside. At night the string was drawn in for security, but for neighbors and
                    friends the latch string was always on the outside. No people in the world were more generous, free
                    hearted, and hospitable than the early pioneers; and their hospitality and good cheer had with it a
                    flavor that can not be copied.
            Most cabins contained a loft or attic story which was reached by a rude ladder at the corner. This
                    cubby hole furnished a sleeping quarters for the boys of the family.
            
               
                  3 Banta, History 0f 
                                Johnson County
                            
                  , p. 246.
            
            
            Double log cabins were frequently built, especially in the older and more prosperous communities.4 It was really a combination of two cabins. The space between the two wras known as the entry and was wide and roomy. The entry was roofed with
                    clapboards, and its floor formed of clay and gravel beaten down hard and smooth. Since it was open
                    at both ends one could find there, even on the hottest day, a cool, refreshing draft of air. Such
                    cabins were a long step in advance of the little one room structure of the early day, so far as
                    comfort and convenience were concerned, and, no doubt, many a pioneer house wife has looked with
                    pardonable pride upon her splendid mansion, as a house of two rooms was considered particularly
                    fine.
            The first cabins were constructed entirely without the use of nails or any scrap of iron.4 Perhaps the axe was the only tool used. But after the first years glass,
                    nails, and other imported materials were commonly used, and, with the establishment of saw mills,
                    sawed boards took the place of hewed logs. These later cabins, in comparison with the earlier ones,
                    presented a very neat appearance with their smooth, even walls daubed with mortar, and their floors,
                    frames and finishing of yellow poplar.
            FURNITURE AND FIREPLACE EQUIPMENT
            If the house of the pioneer was rough and crude, its furniture was in keeping with it. Everything was
                    homemade, direct from the forest. Beds were made by utilizing one corner of the room. Holes were
                    bored into two logs of the wall at the proper height from the floor, and into them sticks- were
                    driven horizontally and at right angles, the ends of the sticks being supported by an upright stake
                    driven into the floor. Sometimes cracks in the walls obviated the necessity of boring holes. Upon
                    the framework was woven a bottom of withes, bark or deer-skin thongs to support the bedding, crude
                    framework often made of brush covered with skins of animals.5 On this bed was
                    generally found the proverbial three-figured "coverlid" of Carolina and 
                        Tennessee
                     housewives. Any deficiency in bed clothing was supplied by bear and deer skins.6
            
            
               
                        4 Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times, pp. 9-10.
                        Indiana Magazine of History, III, 127. 
               
                  5
                        Indiana Magazine of History, III, 128.
               
                  6 Banta, History of 
                                Johnson County
                            
                  , p. 247.
            
            
            Guests were usually given this bed, while the family provided for themselves in another corner of the
                    room, or in the loft. When many guests were on hand at once all slept in the center of the floor.
                    When bedtime came the men were requested to step out of doors while the women spread out a broad bed
                    upon the mid-floor and put themselves to bed. Then the men were called in. The sleepers were
                    generally so crowded that they had to sleep "spoon fashion," and it was necessary
                    for all to turn together. When anyone wished to turn over he would say "spoon" and
                    the whole company would turn at once.
            Three legged stools often took the place of chairs. Some of the more prosperous settlers possessed
                    hickory chairs with splint bottoms, but stools and benches rived out of logs ordinarily served for
                    seats, especially at the table. Even the back log of the fireplace served as a seat. Tables were
                    often made in the same way as the beds–in a corner of the room. For tops they had thick
                    boards made smooth with an axe. Over the cabin door was the gun rack, made usually by fastening
                    prongs of deer antlers into augur holes, or simply of forked cleats. On this the trusty rifle and
                    powder horn rested. Hooks on which to hang clothes and other articles were fashioned from the forked
                    or crooked branches of treets.
            Above the fireplace was a shelf called the mantel which was often colored deep blue with dye of
                    indigo. On this stood a candlestick or lamp, some table ware, possibly an old clock, and perhaps a
                    few books. Often in the summer two or three crocks planted with morning glories were placed on the
                    shelf, and when the vines fell downward, their leaves and bloosoms hid the old fireplace as
                    effectually as a curtain would have concealed it.
            In the fire place was an old fashioned crane, sometimes of wood, sometimes of iron, and on this pots
                    were hung for cooking- Forked sticks with pins stuck into the longer arms made pot hooks, which were
                    caught over a pole or "cross tree" that was fixed in the fireplace a safe distance
                    above the fire, the pots being hung on the pins. An improvement on this was the "trammel
                    hook" formed of flat bar iron hooked at the end, while at the other, an adjustable hook
                    could be raised or lowered as desired and secured by means of an iron pin inserted in holes that
                    were drilled along the bar. With the advent of the brick chimneys, of course came the swinging  iron cranes. These, set in iron eyes embedded in the masonry,
                    could be turned freely, the long arms carrying the pots out over the hearth when desired.
            Each of the four corners of the one-room houses was usually occupied by some essential article of
                    furniture. In one corner stood the large bed for the old folks, with a trundle bed under it for the
                    children; in another, the heavy table, generally the only one in the house; in another the rough
                    cupboard which contained the tableware, consisting of a few cups, saucers and plates standing on
                    edge against the back to make the best display poossible; in the fourth, the old fashioned spinning
                    wheel; whose continual hum made music for the busy family.
            It was good to live in one of these simple homes. If the house itself was limited in its capacity,
                    the hearts of the occupants were large and kindly. The following quotation fitly describes them.
                    "These simple cabins were inhabited by a kind and true hearted people. They were strangers
                    to mock modesty, and the traveller, seeking lodging for the night, or desirous of spending a few
                    days in the community, if willing to accept the rude offering was always welcome. As to how they
                    were disposed of at night the reader cannot easily imagine; for, as described a single room was made
                    to answer for kitchen, dining-room, bedroom, sitting-room and parlor, and many families consisted of
                    six or eight members."7
            
            The early pioneer could not have remained very long if it had not been for the abundance of game of
                    all kinds in the forest. Often, for weeks at a time, they had no other food than deer, bear and wild
                    turkey meat. With this they frequently used a substitute for bread of roasted acorns, pounding the
                    mixture into a meal, of which they made ash cakes. This was very coarse fare, but the pioneer
                    families subsisted very well on such diet until they could raise a patch of corn- Hard labor
                    furnished ravenous appetites, and dyspepsia and other stomach troubles were unknown.
            METHOD OF COOKING
            One is almost surprised at the various methods of cooking that were used.8
                    Cooking stoves did not come into use until 1820, and even as late as 1835 a large majority of the
                    families prepared their 
                  
                     7 Banta, History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     , p. 246.
                  
                     8 Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana, p.
                        323.
               
                     foods in the old fashioned way. In the early days cooking
                    utensils were not plentiful. The settlers came a long way over mountains from the seaboard States,
                    in rough wagons and carts, on horseback, or even on foot. Consequently it was difficult to bring
                    many dishes or utensils. Many of the poorer immigrants had but a single skillet in their cabins. An
                    old lady relates that when she was a grown woman there was not more than one vessel for cooking in
                    any home in the neighborhood and that one was nearly always a skillet with a lid. Some made with
                    their own hands rough pots of clay, which served until they could get iron ones. These crude pots
                    were not glazed, so that when meat was cooked the grease came through the pores, and the outside of
                    the pot was continually afire. In the more comfortable homes the cooking was done in large kettles
                    hung with pothooks from an iron crane over the great fire in the fireplace. Meat was cooked in a
                    long handled frying pan, which was held over the blaze by hand or set down upon coals drawn out upon
                    the hearth.
            This pan was also used for baking pancakes, sometimes called "flap-jacks," and
                    bread, too, was frequently made on it. Johnny cake was baked on a board made for this purpose, about
                    ten inches wide and fifteen inches long and rounding at the top. The thick corn
                    dough was placed on the board which was set against a chunk of wood near the fire. After one side
                    had been baked to a nice brown, the other side was treated in the same way. The resulting cake was
                    often delicious. If a johnny-cake board was not at hand a hoe, without a handle, was cleaned and
                    greased with bear's oil-The dough was baked on this metal surface and was called a
                    hoe-cake. If neither a johnny-cake board nor a hoe was to be had, the dough was wrapped in cabbage
                    leaves or fresh cornshucks, laid in a clean place on the hearth, and covered with live embers, which
                    thoroughly baked it. This was called an ash cake. A better article for baking was a covered skillet
                    called a "spider."9 This utensil stood upon feet and was
                    heated over the hearth with hickory coals piled over, and under it; no flame was suffered to blaze
                    around the skillet. The more prosperous families used the Dutch oven for baking, especially in the
                    summer time. This was made of bricks and mortar, or small boulders, or even tough clay, wrought and
                    beaten into shape and burned by slow fires built inside. It was usually set upon a wooden platform
                    away from the house because 
                  
                     9 Levering, Historic Indiana, p. 68.
               
                     of the danger of fires, and was protected by a shed. In shape
                    it appeared much like a round dome, resembling considerably the old-time bee-hive. After the oven
                    was thoroughly heated the fire was raked out and the bread and pies set in upon the floor, the body
                    of the oven restaining enough heat to do the cooking.
            ARTICLES OP FOOD
            The chief articles of diet in the early days were cornbread and hominy; venison, wild turkey,
                    squirrel, and other w7ild game; duck and chicken; honey, beans, pumpkin, (dried
                    for more than half the year,) potatoes, and other vegetables. In the early times, sweets, pastries,
                    and biscuits were luxuries, which were served out only on Sundays. A travelling circuit judge
                    described a limited fare: "Three articles of diet, only, appeared on the plain walnut
                    table, corn dodgers, boiled squirrel, and sassafras tea."10 But the
                    later pioneer had many delicacies. Potpie, jellies, pies, custards, pound cakes, and preserves were
                    not strange to his palate, in addition to the more subtantial foods. On Sundays and feast-days his
                    table fairly groaned with good things.
            Cornmeal was the staple article of sustenance. When the corn was still green they grated the pulp for
                    hoecakes. A grater was made from a piece of tin, often taken from an old worn out tin bucket- After
                    many holes had been punched through, it was nailed on boards by the edges. The soft corn was rubbed
                    on the rough side of this grater, the meal passing through the perforations and falling into a pan.
                    Hominy corn was pounded in a hominy block, formed by cutting or burning a hole in a stump. A pole
                    twenty or thirty feet long was fixed in an upright fork so that it could be worked like a well
                    sweep. To one end, a large heavy maul was attached by means of which the corn was pounded. A little
                    later a small hand-mill made of two small round stones came into use. Four bushels of corn could be
                    ground in one day by the use of this mill, and at that time this was considered a great advance in
                    the milling industry.11 But when the country became more settled men embarked in
                    the milling business. The little water mills along 
                  
                     10 O. H. Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches,
                            p. 169.
                  
                     11 Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana, p. 195
                        ff.
               
                     the stream did a good business. Mills being so great a public
                    necessity, they were permitted to be located upon any person's land where the miller
                    thought the site desirable.12
            
            Ordinarily there was no trouble in getting the grist and bringing it home. But twice a year, during
                    the spring floods or fall droughts, the streams were either too low or too high for grinding. At
                    such times the neighbors borrowed meal from each other until the last sack was gone. Finally the old
                    block was brought from its cover to furnish hominy. In the late summer the people also resorted to
                    succotash. With the temporary supplies the settler lived until the mill wheels turned again.
            The pioneer was a thrifty soul. His larder was always stocked for the winter. Pumpkin was dried in
                    large quantities, besides fruits of all kinds. He excelled in curing meats. The ashes of hickory
                    bark (shellbark) were carefully gathered up and stored away in a dry place- At the hog killing
                    season the choicest hams were selected, and, having been salted, smoked, and dried, they were laid
                    aside in these white, feathery hickory ashes where they remained until March or April, or sometimes
                    later, when they were brought out for table use. Such choice hams were known as
                    "hickory" hams and had a pleasant odor and flavor when served at the table.
                    Genuine hickory hams were seldom seen in the market however; they were reserved for home
                        consumption.13 Great pits of luscious apples furnished delightful food for
                    the long, cold winter evenings, and barrels of cider were at hand to add good cheer.
            HOMEMADE UTENSILS
            With his axe the early settler found little difficulty in manufacturing the rude utensils which he
                    needed about the home. Trays, large and small, were made from soft poplar, buckeye and bass-wood.
                    Trenchers and bowls for the kitchen use were hewn from sections of maple logs, and then burned or
                    scraped smooth. Gourds of every shape and size were raised. Being of many shapes and sizes, they
                    were used when scraped out and cleaned, for a variety of purposes.14 The gourd
                    hung as a dipper beside the spring or well and was a companion to the cider barrel and whiskey 
                  
                     12 Banta, History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     , p. 257. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            pp. 194-195.
                  
                     13 Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times, p. 17.
                  
                     14
                            Indiana Magazine of History, III, 130.
               
                     jug. It was used at the table, at the lye kettle, at the sugar
                    camp– for soup, soap or sap. A large one split in half made a wash pan or milk pan. A
                    small one was often used by the grandmother as a form over which to darn socks. The small boy
                    carried his bait in one when he went fishing, and the baby used another for a rattle. The churn was
                    sometimes a mere trough and paddle. A curious, clumsy wooden machine for kneading bread was called a
                    dough break. Water was frequently carried by a yoke that fitted across the shoulders with a thong
                    hanging from each end by which two buckets of water could be carried, leaving the hands free to
                    carry two more if necessary.
            LIGHTING OF THE HOUSE
            The home was lighted by the blaze of the great fireplace, and by tallow candles. Candle making,
                    indeed, became an art, and candle moulds with balls of cotton wicking- could be seen in every
                    house-A good lamp was modeled from clay in the form of a cup which was burned hard. When this was
                    filled with bear's oil and fitted with a cotton wick, it gave a very good light. The cotton
                    too, was grown in the dooryard.
            Matches in the early days were unknown, so the matter of starting fires was a serious one. Often,
                    when a settler was unfortunate enough to let his fire die out in the fireplace, he sent to his
                    nearest neighbor to borrow coals to rekindle it. Usually a blaze was kindled by means of punk.15 It was a peculiar, dry, spongy wood found in the knots on the trunks of the
                    trees and also in larger branches. Hickory trees especially furnished excellent punk. But the
                    substance was not plentiful, and was rather valuable. It was absolutely necessary to keep it dry;
                    the least dampness rendered it useless. To start a fire a small bit of punk was held close to a
                    flint which, when struck with a piece of steel, let fall a shower of sparks upon it. One of these
                    sparks beginning to burn, the punk was surrounded with dry tow or leaves and the mass fanned into a
                    blaze. Then with dry kindling-wood a good fire was built.
            THE PROBLEM OF CLOTHING
            The dress of the early settlers was entirety homemade, but it was suitable for the life which he led.
                    They paid little attention 
                  
                     15 Maurice Thompson. Stories of Indiana, p.
                        86.
               
                     to style but service and durability were considerations of
                    prime importance. The men always wore a substantial hunting shirt made of blue linsey or coflrse
                    buckskin. It was a loose frock coat reaching below the middle of the thighs. The sleeves were large
                    and the front part of the garment was made very full so that it lapped over more than a foot when it
                    was belted. To it was attached a large, full cape, much like those worn by the Union Cavalry of the
                    Civil War. In the spacious bosom of this garment the hunter could very conveniently carry articles
                    he needed- The belt was frequently sewed to the shirt which was usually ornamented by a heavy
                    fringe, sometimes of red or gray colors, around the bottom and down the shoulder seams. This
                    disposition to adorn the garment was borrowed from the Indians. A well-tanned and well-made suit of
                    buckskin gave the wearer a rather neat and jaunty appearance with a touch of aboriginal elegance.
                    Occasionally a lover of primitive finery had his shirt and moccasins ornamented with beads and
                    brightly colored porcupine quills, but those intended for the chase or for scouting were of a dull
                    color to attract as little attention as possible. An undershirt or vest was usually made of striped
                    linsey. Trousers of buckskin, linsey, or course blue cloth were made very close fitting, and over
                    them the pioneer wore a pair of buckskin leggings fringed down the outside seams like those of the
                    Indians. Moccasins of deerskin or shoepacks of tanned leather provided a comfortable footwear. Some
                    wore shoes, but this was not common in the earlier period. In fact in the summer everybody, male and
                    female, old and young, went barefooted. For headdress the men usually wore a coonskin cap. In summer
                    they made hats from wild oat straw or from flags that grew in the ponds. Even the inside bark of the
                    mulberry roots was cleaned and worked into light durable hats for summer wear. Gloves with the fur
                    on one side were made from the skins of small animals. Buffalo overcoats were worn in extremely cold
                    weather.
            Deerskin was used widely for clothing, not only because it was available, but because it resisted
                    nettles, briars, bites of snakes, and was an excellent protection from the cold. But it had its
                        drawbacks.16 When wet, as it often was, the garment would shrink to a third
                    of its usual size and become stiff and unwieldy. So, as soon as the pioneer could protect a flock of
                    sheep from the wolves he 
                  
                     16 Levering, Historic Indiana, p. 69.
               
                     had woolen clothing. In dry weather deerskin moccasins were
                    excellent footwear, but in soft snow or rain they were not at all comfortable.
            Women did not have as elaborate costumes as men but they dressed to suit their work.17 The frock and habit were the chief outer garments, the shirt and body in both being
                    attached to each other, making one garment. Often a shirt or petticoat was worn over some sort of
                    dress made much like a modern lady's nightgown. In cold weather a waist or jacket was added
                    to the skirt. The fastenings were hooks and eyes or ordinary brass pins for the habit, and buttons
                    for the frocks which fastened at the back. Like the men the women went barefooted in summer and wore
                    moccasins or shoepacks in winter. They had flannel shawls of various colors and often with a fringe
                    sewed all around. In summer they wore on their heads a simple sun bonnet, in winter a thick quilted
                    hood. Elderly women always wore caps, night and day.18 For handkerchiefs they
                    had small, homemade squares of white cotton cloth of their own spinning and weaving. Their gloves
                    were made from the best squirrels' skins which were as soft as the best kid and lasted a
                    long time.
            The small child was provided with a tow shirt that hung straight from the shoulders to the heels.
                    This was thought to be sufficient for summer weather. Both boys and girls dressed as little men and
                    women and were made to appear old and sedate before their time. When the boys were ready for
                    pantaloons they had them full length like their fathers, and they were made several sizes too large,
                    for the youngster was expected to grow to fit them or even outgrow them before they were worn out.
            When larger the boy wore a "Sunday-go-to-meeting" suit made of brown and blue
                    jeans, better woven and more carefully made than his earlier clothes. The trousers which folded over
                    his cowhide boots and bagged at the knees and seat, were big enough in girth for two boys. The coat
                    hung loose at the shoulders and elbows and the sleeves were turned up at the wrists. A
                    round-cornered stiff-brimmed hat completed the picture of discomfort. He was never at ease except in
                    his well worn togs.
            In 1820 a change in dress began to take place and by 1830 the pioneer costumes were disappearing.19 The hunting shirt had 
                  
                     17
                            Indiana Magazine of History II., 185.
                  
                     18 Cockrum, A Pioneer History, p. 193.
                  
                     19 Banta, History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     , p. 251.
               
                     given way to the cloth coat; the coonskin cap with tail
                    dangling down behind had been cast aside for the wool or fur hats; boots and shoes had supplanted
                    deerskin moccasins. The change in women's dress was equally marked. The old linsey-woolsey
                    frocks had given place to gowns of calico or silk; their feet were encased with shoes instead of
                    moccasins; and in place of the sunrbonnet and quilted hood they wore hats of straw or cloth, and
                    even leghorns were seen occasionally.
            Men of the better class wore a swallow-tailed coat of broadcloth with trousers and vest to match. The
                    coat was double-breasted and glittered with a row of brass buttons which imparted a certain dignity
                    and grandeur to the gentleman of the old school. The whole suit was topped off with a great bell
                    crowned beaver hat. A black silk stock over stiff buckram encircled his neck and held up his chin in
                    painful stateliness. In cold weather they also wore a stylish cloak or topcoat with, or without a
                    cape.
            The dress of the women of the later period was a reflection of the rule of fashion which had begun.
                    "They wore stiff brocades, shining taffetas, and peau de soie of quaint
                        designs."20 Beautiful furs were extensively worn because pelts were
                    plentiful and cheap. Skirts were flounced and worn over a large hoop which made the wearer resemble
                    a miniature balloon. Enormous muffs, measuring from eighteen to twenty-two inches in length, and
                    bonnets supporting a garden of flowers decked the belles of the towns. In the evening the girls wore
                    flowers in their hair and around the low neck and skirts of ther gowns, and curls were as effective
                    at that time as they are today, upon the opposite sex. Men and women travelled everywhere in their
                    showy costumes, on the stage coach, the steamboat, and in town.
            The clothing of the pioneers was made from various materials. Of course, at first they used the skins
                    of animals from necessity. Buckskin was the usual material. But as the country became more thickly
                    settled and sheep could be raised, wool was largely used-They grew flax, and even tried to raise
                    cotton, but it could not be successfully cultivated. When the flax crop failed they went to the rich
                    creek bottoms where nettles grew in abundance and gathered loads of the stalks from which they made
                    a coarse cloth. Shirts, trousers, towels, bed ticks, were all made of the cloth manufactured 
                  
                     20 Levering, Historic Indiana, p. 276.
               
                     from these nettles.21 Flax was an important
                    product for, until cotton came into general use, it formed the chain of most fabrics woven. The
                    women wore linsey-woolsey (the warp of flax and the woof of wool) for winter and tow linen for
                    summer. They worked continually preparing clothing for the family. Spinning, weaving, knitting for
                    the household were eternal tasks. As the children grew older they relieved the mother of a great
                    deal of the hard toil, but even then she had much to do. Spinning was one of the most arduous
                    duties. There was a big wheel for spinning yarn and a little wheel for spinning flax. The hum of the
                    busy wheels furnished music for the family. A loom was just as necessary as a spinning wheel, but as
                    they were large and cumbersome several families owned and used one in common. A single machine had a
                    capacity for the needs of several families. It occupied so much space in the cabin that it was a
                    serious incumbrance; hence a period was set aside for the family weaving, after which the loom was
                    taken apart and stowed away. Some families had separate loom rooms. These rude machines did
                    excellent work producing blankets, jeans, coverlets, and curtains of excellent material and
                    workmanship. A great degree of artistic art and skill was exhibited in dyeing the yarns and weaving
                    the complicated figures. Wool was carded by hand-cards and made into rolls which were spun on the
                    big wheel. Even at this day we still find in the houses of the old settlers some of these once used
                    machines, especially spinning wheels.
            Mothers and daughters usually made and designed their own clothing as well as prepared and designed
                    the cloth- But a sewing woman who went from house to house in the neighborhood soon made her
                        appearance.22 Having had many years experience in cuting, fitting, and
                    handling the same materials, she could readily do neat work and was always in demand.
            The dye stuffs used most were the hulls of walnuts and the inner bark of certain trees.23 In some parts the dark brown of the black walnut prevailed, in others the tawney tints
                    of the white walnut were liked best. The most aristocratic color was indigo with which many Sunday
                    suits and garments for special occasions were dyed. Prepared indigo could be purchased at the
                    village stores, but many settlers grew their own plants and manufactured the 
                  
                     21
                     " Indiana Magazine of History, VI., 78.,
                            also Cockrun, A Pioneer History of Indiana, p. 193.
                  
                     22" Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times, p 28.
                  
                     23
                            Indiana Magazine of History, III., p. 183.
               
                     dye. Other dyes were made from madder and copperas or maple
                    bark and copperas. These colors were made to alternate with the blues and browns in striping and
                    checking linseys. Stockings were often dyed after the weaving, but the usual way was to dye them in
                    the yarn.
            Early settlers tanned their own leather.24 Skins that had been preserved and
                    dried were put into a vat of strong lye which loosened the hair so that it could be easily removed.
                    Then they were placed In another vat containing a liquid made from black-oak bark, where they were
                    allowed to remain for several months. When taken out and scraped and softened with bear's
                    oil, they became very soft and pliable. From this homemade leather the settler made his buckskin
                    suit and later his boots, shoes, and harness. Usually each man was his own shoemaker, but sometimes,
                    especially in the later period, a travelling shoemaker went from house to house to make or to mend
                    shoes.
            CHAPTER II. OCCUPATIONS.
            WILD GAME AND HUNTING
            The pioneers who first came to Indiana could not have subsisted except for the abundance of wild
                    game. Many came almost empty-handed and others had food and supply only for a limited period: not
                    enough to last until the maturing of the first crop. For weeks at a time they had no other food than
                    bear, deer, or wild turkey meat, on which they lived until they could raise a patch of corn.
            So the pioneers went a-hunting. The woods and prairies were full of bear, deer, buffaloes, pheasants,
                    and wild turkeys, and the streams and watercourses abounded with wild ducks and geese-Wild pigeons
                    were so numerous that often the sky was darkened by their passage. A man could stand on his door
                    step and shoot deer without difficulty. They resorted to the "licks" in great
                    numbers all through the warm seasons of the year and the veriest tenderfoot could not fail to bring
                    home a supply of venison. At Collier's Lick in 
                        Brown county
                     a man shot thirteen in one morning. Another knocked one in the head with an axe as it
                    attempted to run past him while he was splitting rails.25 In early spring droves
                        
                  
                     24 Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana, p. 194.
                  
                     25
                     History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     , p. 344.
               
                     of them wandered into the wheat fields, but, as they were too
                    poor for food the farmers drove them away with hickory rattles. Fire hunting was a favorite method
                    of killing deer. In his light canoe, with a pine knot or torch flaming from the bow, the hunter
                    would float down the stream. When a deer came down to the waters edge to drink, the torch would
                    "shine his eyes," and, dazzled by the brightness he would stand motionless, gazing
                    at the light, while the rifle of the boatman laid him low. White men learned from the Indians how to
                    jerk venison. A hunk of venison hung from the rafters of almost every cabin and it was the custom of
                    visitors to slice off a piece to chew during the conversation. Hunting was a trying labor. When the
                    streams were overflown the hunter had to wade all day through the wet; and in winter when heavy
                    snows covered the ground it was difficult to follow the game. An idea of the abundance of game in
                    the early day may be gained from a list of the fur bearing animals that were hunted for their pelts.
                    Bears, wolves, deer, buffaloes, lynxes, wildcats, opposums, beavers, otters, martens, minks,
                    raccoons, and muskrats abounted. Wolves were so numerous that the State encouraged their
                    extermination by offering a bounty for their scalps. In many localities they had to be exterminated
                    before sheep and pigs could be raised. They often attacked larger animals and even men. A 
                        Warrick county
                     farmer who turned his horse out to graze one night found only the bones the next
                        morning.26 Wolf hunts in which hundreds of men and dogs engaged, were
                    organized and in this way, with the stimulation of bounty, they were driven from the settled
                    communities- Squirrels were so numerous that they threatened to destroy the ripening corn
                    altogether. In the summer of 1834 they were especially troublesome. The woods and prairies swarmed
                    with them. Men and boys destroyed hundreds with clubs, but in spite of all their efforts they
                    threatened to destroy the corn crop.27 Wolves killed the sheep; foxes killed the
                    lambs and pigs; squirrels and raccoons ate the green corn; and even the turtles in the pond were
                    expert at catching the young geese and ducks. With so many enemies the pioneer had his hands full
                    indeed.
            All guns in early days were single barreled, muzzle-loading, clumsy weapons with flint locks. To load
                    a rifle, one had first to measure a charge of powder by pouring it out of the horn into the 
                  
                     26 Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana, p. 499.
                  
                     27 Sanford C. Cox, Early Settlement of the
                                    Wabash Valley
                     , p. 153.
               
                     charger; after this was emptied into the barrel, a patching of
                    cloth or thin deerskin was placed over the muzzle; upon this a bullet was placed and pressed in as
                    hard as possible. Next the cloth or deerskin was clipped off as close as possible to the bullet;
                    then the whole was rammed down to the bottom of the barrel upon the powder; after priming the pan
                    and setting the trigger the gun was ready to fire. ' Sometimes the flint failed and the
                    lock had to be fired several times before the gun was discharged. If the powder got damp no
                    discharge was possible. In later years percussion caps were introduced to the great relief of the
                    hunter.
            BEE HUNTING
            In addition to hunting animals the pioneer was fond of bee hunting. He located a bee tree by watching
                    a bee, which he had sprinkled with flour and kept prisoner for some time, find its way home again.
                    Or he prepared a sweet-bait which he placed in a trough on a stump. When the insect had gathered its
                    load of sweets it flew in a "bee line" for its home. By carefully watching the
                    direction taken, the backwoodsman could locate the tree, which he then marked- A bee
                    hunter's mark was as sacredly respected as the mark of an owner of horses and cattle. In
                    September the party cut down the tree and gathered the shining honey. As several gallons were often
                    found in a single tree the settlers kept themselves supplied the year around. In some places there
                    were not enough hollow trees for the bee colonies, so they occupied crevices in the rocks and holes
                    in the ground.28
            
            CLEARING THE FOREST
            The new settler found a primeval wilderness. In every direction a great forest of oak, poplar,
                    walnut, beech, gum, ash, and a hundred other varieties of trees stretched over the hills and
                    valleys, and in its shade in most places grew a thicket of spicewood, hazel, greenbriars, young
                    saplings, and other underbrush. In these thick woods the pioneer had to chop and grub a little field
                    where he might locate a home and raise a little crop. In some sections all trees up to eighteen
                    inches in diameter were felled; all over that size were deadened, either by girdling with the axe or
                    burning 
                  
                     28 Banta, History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     , p. 263.
               
                     them about the roots. The deadened trees fell year after year,
                    so that several clearings were necessary to rid the field of the forest. The trees which he chopped
                    down were cut in convenient lengths for rolling. On an appointed day the neighbors met for a
                    logrolling at which time they heaped up the scattered logs for burning. Timber which today would be
                    worth twice as much as the value of the land was consigned to the fire to secure a little clearing
                    of five or six acres. On one nine acre tract the logs laid so thick that a man could have walked all
                    over the field without touching the ground. Farmers rolled logs a large number of days every year,
                    sometimes as many as twenty or thirty. "John Carson, as late as 1840, rolled logs
                    twenty-two days in one year, and Samuel Harriot, thirty-six days, but he was a politician."
                    But the pioneer farmer was not always able to roll his logs in time for planting and tilling. Not
                    infrequently he cultivated a crop among the fallen logs, tilling the soil altogether with the hoe.
                    Some felled the trees in windrows and planted the crop in the open spaces.
            DOMESTIC ANIMALS
            The pioneer farm was a very independent institution, a little world of its own. Everything of daily
                    use was made or substituted from its products, except salt- Food, clothing, agricultural implements,
                    almost everything that came into daily life were the products of the community.
            All the modern domestic animals, horses, cattle, sheep, hogs, and domesticated fowls were raised. The
                    cows and horses, however, were of very inferior size due to the want of proper care in winter.
                    Cattle were not housed in cold weather, and, as hay was very scarce, cornfodder was used as a
                    substitute. In summer they were belled and turned out to range in the woods. Horses were belled and
                    hobbled. Each farmer could identify the tinkle of his bells among twenty others. Hogs roamed freely
                    in the forests, where they fattened in the fall on the mast. By winter time they were in fine
                    condition for killing. Some pioneers paid for their lands by raising hogs in the woods.
            
            FARM IMPLEMENTS
            There were no factory-made implements. There were, in the early period, no wagon or blacksmith shops.
                    The pioneers had to depend upon their own resources for such tools and implements as they needed.
                    They made a very good plow with a wooden mold-board. When iron was used, the plowshare, point and
                    bar were all of one piece. There were several kinds of plows. The bar-share was a cumbersome,
                    unsatisfactory implement with a long six-foot beam, a three-foot bar, and handles that extended far
                    backward. Plowing with such an implement was laborious work, and even dangerous in newly cleared
                    ground abounding in roots and stumps. It was a standing joke among the pioneers that a bar-share
                    would kick a man over the fence and kick him after he was over. In a few years the bar-share was
                    superseded by the Cary plow, which approached the pattern of the modern implement, and this, about
                    1840, gave way in turn to the cast-iron plow- The shovel plow, however, was a favorite with the
                    farmer. A harrow, both timber and teeth, was made from slippery elm or iron wood, usually in the
                    form of an "A." Singletrees and double trees were made much as they are today
                    except that clips, devices, and lap rings were made of hickory withes. They made horse collars of
                    corn shucks or rawhide. Raw-hide, too, was the materials of which bridles were manufactured.
                    Properly crooked roots of forest trees furnished hames which were also fastened with leather thongs.
                    The truck wagon with its rude wooden wheels was a familiar sight. The wheels were made from sections
                    of a tree of the proper diameter. Tough hickory or white oak poles fitted into four inch holes in
                    the middle of the wheels formed the axles. Each pair of wheels Avas conected by a hickory or oak
                    pole, fitting into four-inch holes in the wheels. A rough coupling-pole completed the wagon. These
                    crude, but serviceable, wagons were drawn by plodding oxen joined by a heavy wooden yoke, and were
                    widely used for hauling wood, gathering corn, and other services incident to farming. Paradoxical as
                    it may seem, the more grease one put on the axle the louder was the squeak-which could sometimes be
                    heard for a mile.29 Pitchforks were made entirely of wood from the forked boughs
                    of a dogwood sapling or the antlers of an elk. Wooden rakes of strong seasoned wood and fitted with
                    deer horns made very useful tools. Even spades were 
                  
                     29 Cocktum, A Pioneer History of Indiana, p.
                        821.
               
                     fashioned from good hickory which had been seasoned and when
                    kept well oiled lasted for several years. Rude wooden sleds were in universal use by all that
                    possesed horses or cattle. All farm implements were pinned together with hickory pins inserted into
                    holes that were burned out, for the pioneer had no auger. Even settlers of later years had very few
                    tools, the entire list usually comprising only a handsaw, crosscut saw, broadaxe, auger, chisel and
                    drawing knife. To these the whole neighborhood had access.
            CROPS
            With these rude tools the pioneer tilled his crops. He plowed the ground as best he could but that is
                    about all. During the first few years there was little harrowing of the soil, the rough condition of
                    the field forbidding it. Grain sown "broadcast" was "brushed
                    in." Farmers, too, confined themselves chiefly to the raising of Indian corn. But after
                    mills suitable for grinding and bolting flour became accessible, they began to raise wheat. Corn
                    ripened in about one hundred days after planting, so it was the most serviceable crop and perhaps
                    the most widely cultivated. A field of this crop when in full tassel presented a pleasing
                    appearance. An old French missionary writing back to his superior in the old world has this to say
                    of a full-tasseled cornfield tilled by his Indian catechumens; "There are no fields so
                    beautiful as these outside of paradise.30 Flax for making linen was extensively
                    cultivated. Oats potatoes, hemp, pumpkins, and orchard crops yielded rich returns. Apples, peaches,
                    and grapes grew in abundance. Speaking of orchard conditions in 1843, Henry Ward Beecher said,
                    "An orchard is to be found on almost every farm, and lately the pear tree has been more
                    than ever sought after. At our October fair (county fair) was exhibited the greatest variety of
                    fruits and flowers ever exhibited in this State, perhaps I may say in the West. From forty-five to
                    sixty varieties of apples competed for a premium… The number of seedling apples in this
                    State is very great and in the neighborhood in which they grow, are esteemed more highly by the
                    settlers than the old standard fruits."31 From these orchards, barrels
                    of the finest cider were made and the vineyards furnished delicious wines. At 
                        Vevay
                    , where a large number 
                  
                     30 Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times, p. 42.
                  
                     31
                            Indiana Magazine of History, III., 189.
               
                     of Swiss settled, wine made from a round black grape was a
                    staple product. The old fashioned garden was a thing of beauty. All kinds of vegetables were grown,
                    but a portion of the ground was alloted to flowers. For a long time the tomato, introduced from the
                    south, was grown merely as an ornament, and curiosity.32 Nobody ever thought of
                    eating it, and it was not until later years that this delicious food was used on the table or grown
                    for the market.
            THE HARVEST SEASON
            Despite the sultry weather the harvest season was a joyous time, a kind of a summer festival. Farmers
                    of the neighborhood usually five or six, combined and went from field to field reaping and shocking
                    as they went. At first the work was done with a sickle and rake, but these implements were soon
                    superseded by the cradle. A half dozen cradles mowing with military precision was an impressive
                    sight. Although the labor was hard, the men still had courage to jest and laugh. There were contests
                    of skill and endurance–the ambition of most farmer boys was to be expert cradlers. The
                    harvest on a single farm lasted on the average two or three days. When the last shock was capped the
                    tools were stacked around it, the men and boys formed a circle, and, at a signal from the captain,
                    the reapers gave three cheers. If the echo replied three times it was accounted a good omen for the
                    next crop. A blast from a horn at the cabin was heard in answer and the harvest was ended. This
                    little ceremony was known as the stubble call.33 The surplus of the crop was
                    bartered away at the country town for salt and other necessities. Sometimes it was sold for money,
                    but such sales were few, for little coin was in circulation at that time-Men did not work for wages
                    but for help in return.
            The harvest season was characterized by good living. The best cooks in the neighborhood vied with
                    each other in the preparation of food, and the workers lived on the fat of the land. In some
                    communities whiskey was considered indispensable to the reapers; in others only water and buttermilk
                    were drunk. In the middle of the afternoon, about 4 o'clock, it was the custom to send the
                    men a light lunch with coffee. At the close of the day an elaborate supper awaited the workers, who
                    ate heartily with no thought of dyspepsia. 
                  
                     32 Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times, p.33.
                  
                     33 Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times, p. 25.
               
                     Meals were usually served out of doors in a long booth covered
                    with green boughs, the table being bountifully supplied with substantial food and a dessert of
                    homemade pastries.
            HUNTING GINSENG
            The sale of ginseng furnished not a little revenue to the early settler, for, being extremely
                    valuable it was often paid for in cash. Men and boys spent days in the wild woods hunting and
                    digging for the roots. It really required a skilled woodsman to locate the plant. In later years,
                    Turpie says, it was a custom among the farmers to grant the boys three days each season to dig
                    "sang." In this way the youngsters earned a little pocket money which they were
                    free to use as they pleased. It frequently was used to purchase circus tickets.
            SUGAR MAKING
            An important industry of the early spring season was the manufacture of maple sugar. Immense groves
                    of sugar maples were preserved after the surrounding forests were cleared away. In 1822
                    Governor's Circle in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was a sugar camp.34 The trees were tapped five or six feet above
                    the ground. Rude troughs, hollowed out from short logs, split in halves, were placed at the trees to
                    catch the flowing sap. Often these were scaffolded up by the poles to keep the hogs from drinking
                    the water. Each morning the water was collected in a barrel, drawn on a sled from tree to tree by an
                    ox team- In the sugar camp the sap was boiled into syrup or sugar. The Indians were as fond of maple
                    sugar as the white and more than one old chief, sent west by the government, has wandered back to
                    his former Indiana haunts in search of maple sweets.
            DIFFICULTY IN OBTAINING SALT
            From 1800 to 1820 the settlers experienced great difficulty in neeking a sufficient supply of salt
                    for culinary purposes and for the preservation of their game. It was very expensive, costing all the
                    way from twelve to twenty cents per pound. So great was the demand for it and so limited the supply
                    that it became a kind of standard of value. A bear skin was worth fifty cents in salt, a deer 
                  
                     34
                            The Indiana Magazine of History, II., p. 129.
               
                     skin twenty cents, and a raccoon skin about fifteen cents.
                    Pilgrimages to the licks and salt springs were made in large companies to guard against the
                    surprises of Indians. At the springs the men camped out until they had evaporated enough salt for a
                    year's supply. One of the perquisites insisted on by the Indians in their treaties with the 
                        United States
                     was their annuity of salt.35
            
            FLATBOATS
            In the early times the creeks and rivers of the State echoed with the'songs of the
                    flatboatmen who carried farm produce from the river landings down the 
                        Mississippi
                     to the southern market, 
                        New Orleans
                    . The construction of one of these boats required great labor.36
                    First, two immense gunwhales from sixty to eighty feet in length were hewed from a large poplar
                    tree. They were hauled to the river bank and placed on rollers. Strong girders were framed into them
                    every eight or ten feet and securely fastened by heavy wooden pins. Small sleepers which were to
                    receive the bottom of the boat were pinned into the girders every eighteen inches and flush with the
                    bottom of the gunwhales. Upon this foundation a double bottom, securely calked with hemp was
                    constructed. When the bottom was finished the craft was ready for launching. With a little effort
                    the structure was rolled down the slope on the rollers into the water. Having been built bottom
                    upward the boat had to be turned. This was accomplished by hitching two or three yoke of oxen to a
                    line attached to the farther edge of the boat and carried over a limb or fork of a tree. The upper
                    frame work for the body of the boat was then made secure with braces, and the siding nailed on-
                    Strong joints were placed upon the frame work from side to side holding up the decking. At each end
                    a strong post extended about three feet above the decking. By means of these posts the craft could
                    be brought to shore and fastened to a tree or some other object. When the posts were"
                    revolved by spikes thrust through the holes bored into them the rope was gradually wound up and the
                    boat pulled to shore. There were three oars, a steering oar at the back and two others used as
                    sweeps to propel the craft and keep it out of the eddies. Such a crude boat was staunch and could
                        
                  
                     35
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at 
                                    Large
                                
                     , VII., 191. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of
                            Indiana, p. 474.
                  
                     36Levering, Historic Indiana, p. 74. Cockrum,
                                A Pioneer History of Indiana, pp. 508-510.
               
                     carry a very large amount of beef, pork, flour, meal, wheat,
                    and corn to market. The vessels which usually travelled in fleets of eight or ten, started on their
                    voyages in the early spring. The trip required six weeks. When the destination was reached and the
                    cargo sold, the crew returned home by steamer. Some old rivermen, however, returned afoot.
            STORES AND TRADE
            Money was very scarce. As a result the barter system, developed to a rather complex stage, was in
                    full sway. At the stores it was supplemented by the credit system for the convenience of the
                    citizens. Powder, lead, salt, iron, leather, and whiskey' were staples at every little
                    store and were exchanged for such products as beeswax, tallow, feathers, ginseng, furs, deerskins,
                    and wild hops. A few stores with a little more complete stock carried, in addition, knives, shears,
                    sickles, augurs, trace chains, and other hardware; calico, fine cambric, pins, needles, and maybe a
                    little broadcloth. At such a place the young girl got her wedding garments and the young dandy his
                    "coat of blue cloth with yellow metal buttons, high rolling collar, and forked
                    tail." Coffee, tea, sugar, and tobacco were luxuries commanding almost fabulous prices. On
                    the other hand farm products were ridiculously cheap. It took eighty bushels of corn to buy a yard
                    of silk, eight bushels to buy a yard of calico, and one hundred bushels to buy a yard of broad cloth
            After the settlers had paid for their quarter section of land at the government price of
                    $1.25 per acre they had little money with which to support a family or improve the
                    purchase. Credit was necessary. The country was literally cleared and improved on credit.37. Merchants and business men gave credit freely, and they in turn received
                    long credit from the great eastern houses. In this way the pioneers were tided over until they could
                    get a foothold. About the only articles that could not be bought on credit were powder, shot,
                    whiskey and salt. An editor once promised that he would receive pay for subscriptions in corn,
                    ginseng, honey, flour, pork, or almost anything but promises.
            Trading was a feature of every assemblage of the public. They even "dickered" at
                    church about the articles they needed. And the public square on court day was a veritable market.
            
               
                  37
                        Indiana Magazine of History, III., 125.
            
            
            PIONEER MILLS
            Horse mills were first used to grind grain and Indian corn. But as soon as possible some settler, in
                    every neighborhood where water power was available, would build a dam and set up a water mill. It
                    involved the expenditure of not a little capital, for those days, to purchase a site, dig a race,
                    and build a house to enclose the machinery. People came from twenty to thirty miles and often had to
                    wait three or four days and nights for the grist. The grain was brought in sacks on horseback and
                    the men and boys camped about the mill until their turns. At the water mills the toll was usually
                    one sixth, but at horse mills and later steam mills it was one fourth, but every man had to bolt his
                    own flour from the chaff. Patrons declared of course that the miller took too much toll. In fact
                    most millers were suspected more or less of dishonesty, an imputation altogether unfounded. An
                    amusing story is told which illustrates this distrust. A farmer sent his boy with a sack of corn to
                    the mill and told him to watch the miller for if he did not the fellow would steal all the corn.
                    "When the lad's turn came he never lost sight of the sack. Finally the miller
                    poured the corn into the hopper and dropped the sack at his feet. The boy watched his chance,
                    snatched the sack away, and rode his horse home as fast as the animal could go- The father who came
                    out into the yard said, "Johnny, where is your meal, and why are you riding so
                    fast?" The boy answered, "The old rascal stole every grain of the corn and aimed
                    to keep the sack; but I watched him, and as soon as he laid it down I got it and ran
                        home."38
            
            ROADS AND TRAVEL
            Our pioneer fathers did not travel very extensively; Some of them never passed beyond the confines of
                    their immediate settlements. The lack of roads was of course responsible for this isolation and
                    provinciality. The earliest roads were narrow, winding, Indian trails where travel was single file.
                    "When immigration increased, rough roads were "blazed" and cleared away
                    sufficient to permit the passage of lumbering wagons. They were strips sixty feet wide, from which
                    the trees had been cut and removed. In the center of the roadway the stumps were cut low to permit
                    the passage 
                  
                     38 Coekrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana, p.
                        326.
               
                     sage of the axles of the wagon. In the rest the stumps stood
                    two or three feet high all along the route. There was no attempt at drainage or embankments. When
                    the rains fell in summer or when the frozen ground thawed in winter, they became almost impassable.
                    Streams had to be crossed by fording or by rude ferries. The worst places were made passable by
                    corduroy, constructed of rough logs laid side by side and kept in place by their weight. About 1820
                    a definite system of roads was projected to connect important points. In that year not less than
                    twenty-six roads, connecting the older towns and even extending into the interior, were projected
                    and commissioners appointed to view the land and mark out the routes. A strong impulse toward road
                    improvement was given by the opening of the Wabash and
                    Erie canal. Plank roads which made very admirable highways were built by
                    corporations, who operated them for toll. But they were not satisfactory, continual repairs being
                    necessary on account of exposure to the weather. Later gravel and pike roads came into use after the
                    subsidence of the craze for railway construction.
            A distant journey was an undertaking of no little moment. A traveler in winter carefully protected
                    his legs by sufficient wrappings. In his bulging saddlebags he carried his clothes, shaving
                    apparatus, and other articles, indispensable to a traveler. Settlers often carried fire with them,
                    so that they might not be detained in making a fire by the slow process of flint and steel.
            OLD TIME TAVERNS
            As travel along a particular road became more general some families undertook to offer rude
                    hospitality to the wayfarers. The best cook and housekeeper soon became known and her cabin was
                    selected as'the goal for the day's journey. In this way some people began to
                    "keep tavern". From this humble beginning it was not very long until regular
                    hostelries were established for the entertainment of guest.39 Liquor soon came
                    to be sold, but a liquor seller must have a tavern license certifying that he was a freeholder, and
                    that he had two spare beds and two horse stalls, that were not necessary for his own use. This was
                    the only form of liquor license issued in the early days. Way-houses that did not sell liquor needed
                        
                  
                            39
                            Indiana Magazine of History, I., 79-80; III., 187. Twaites, Early Western Travels, IX., 161. 
               
                     no license and advertised their hospitality as
                    "private entertainment." There were many taverns on the different roads radiating
                    from 
                        Indianapolis
                    . They were log, frame, and sometimes brick structures with a wooden piazza in front. At
                    the side from the top of a tall post hung a sign board portraying a rude representation of 
                        Washington
                    , 
                        Wayne
                    , 
                        Jackson
                    , or some other noted man. These signs were odd and catchy. One displayed its welcome in
                    poetry:  "This gate hangs high and hinders none, Refresh and pay,
                        then travel on." At the top of the house was a small bell which was rung at
                    meal time, when the boarders gathered around the table and ate without any preface. All classes
                    dined together, high and low, rich and poor. First class entertainment could be had for man and
                    beast all for seventy-five cents. For man there was corn-bread, chicken, eggs, venison, bacon,
                    preserved fruits, buckwheat cakes and honey; for beast, a good feed of corn, oats and hay. There
                    were usually several beds in the same room, an arangement which afforded little or no privacy. The
                    guests washed at a wooden trough behind the house or at the pump- Most lawyers, doctors, business
                    men, and the more prosperous farmers stopped at these old-time taverns on their way to and from the
                    capital or larger cities. After a hard day of travel through mud and rain these inns were doubly
                    attractive. The traveler was welcomed to a seat near the big open fire. A boy stripped off his
                    leggings, took his great coat and hat and bore them away to be dried; his shoes were replaced by a
                    pair of light, comfortable "pumps." Every progressive tavern had a large supply of
                    this cheap but convenient footwear. With all this there was a glass of something warm to take off
                    the chill. In the morning the shoes were returned neatly brushed and blackened, or tallowed perhaps;
                    the damp clothing dried and cleaned once more. Wagoners driving mules or oxen on their way to the
                    river towns with loads of produce, were frequently guests at the inns. Yards had to be provided for
                    the wagons and for hogs that were driven overland to the market. Accomodations were few and poor,
                    but the genuineness of the hospitality and the humor and good nature of the landlord were sufficient
                    to satisfy the pioneer traveler.
         
         
         
            The Campaign of 1888 in Indiana
            By R. C. BULBY Graduate Student, Indiana University
            In few national campaigns has Indiana played a more important and interesting part than in that of
                    1888. Not only did she furnish one of her sons as a candidate, but she was particularly agitated
                    over both the national and local issues. Then she was a doubtful State whose vote would greatly
                    influence, perhaps decide, the results of the election. Some even went so far as to say that the
                    party which carried Indiana would secure the presidency and looked upon the State not only as a
                    pivotal but a determining State. On June 9 Senator Voorhees said, "Indiana will cast
                    550,000 votes at the approaching election, and with that enormous vote there is simply a plurality
                    between the great parties of 6,000 or 7,000, no majority, a bare plurality. You can imagine, then,
                    what the shock of battle is there. The key to the situation is Indiana."1
            
            The great national issue of 1888 was the tariff. It was made the great staple of party arguments in
                    Indiana, but there were a number of local isues and scandals which gave added life to the contest
                    within the State- There was the question of the Democratic gerrymandering, of the mismanagement of
                    the State charitable institutions, the Sim Coy tally-sheet forgeries, and others.
            The campaign in the State started early in the year. Indeed, on January 2, a prominent Democratic
                    editor of 
                        Indianapolis
                     put forth a plea for close organization within the State and emphasized his belief that
                    without it there could be no victory. January 11, a conference was held at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , made up of two delegates from each county, appointed by the chairman of the county
                    committee. Its chief purpose was to adopt plans for the uniform organization of Hendricks clubs
                    throughout the State. During the latter part of the month Maurice Thompson who was travelling in the
                    south published an interview in a 
                        New Orleans
                     paper concerning the prospects in Indiana. He said that the Democratic party was
                    thoroughly alive and harmonious all over the State and eager to atone for the carelessness which
                    came so near losing the whole field for it the year before. The Republican party in Indiana 
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 9, 1888.
               
                     was well organized and led by strong men. Senator Benjamin
                    Harrison was a very able man and within the last few years had shown himself a better politician
                    than formerly. Harrison and his party were preparing to make a tremendous effort to carry the State
                    in the coming campaign; but success seemed doubtful if the Democrats continued to hold together.
                    "With Daniel "W. Voorhees, Joseph E. McDonald and Isaac P. Gray in the field, a
                    united party organized as the young Democracy will organize it, and a campaign like that of 1884,
                    the State will give us 10,000 majority at the least."
            January 29, the 
                        United States
                     District Court convicted Sim Coy and W. F. A. Bernhamer of trying to get unlawful
                    possession of the tally sheets in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     elections the autumn previous. This was not the end but, in a way, only the beginning
                    of trouble for the Democrats. Soon afterward the 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune contained the following: "Two Democratic managers were sent to
                    prison at 
                        Indianapolis
                     Friday, for forging returns in order to secure a Democratic Legislature and thereby the
                    election of a 
                        United States
                     senator from that State- Mr. David Turpie votes in the Senate today, a bogus Senator in
                    a stolen seat, because these crimes were perpetrated."2
            
            This brought forth a burst of anger from the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, Democratic. It called the above statements lies and said that they
                    disclosed the purpose and intent of the Republican scheme.
            Blaine's Florence letter of January 25th was published on February 13th. It was received in
                    Indiana with pretty much the same sentiment as elsewhere. Some few Democrats looked upon it as a
                    shrewd move upon Blaine's part to keep his name before the public, but the Republicans
                    generally accepted it as sincere. On the whole Indiana took Blaine at his word. The letter seemed to
                    have no effect on the Harrison boom. Hon. William H. English said the letter would not affect the
                    Democrats and added that either Judge Walter Q. Gresham or Senator Harrison would be stronger in
                    Indiana than Blaine. Congressman Will Cumback held Blaine's letter to mean what is said and
                    was for Harrison for the nominee. Af ter Harrison he placed Indiana's choice on John
                    Sherman. Incidentally he remarked that he, himself, was not seeking the nomination for governor but
                    that he would like to be the governor of a great State like Indiana.
            
               
                  2
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Tribune, February 7,1888.
            
            
            By the middle of February Indiana politics were warming up in fine style. This was an unusual thing
                    and all saw the intensity of the coming struggle. The Republicans began to see that by making secure
                    Indiana, Conneticut, and 
                        New Jersey
                    , they could do without 
                        New York
                    .
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal was steadily putting forth Harrison as the Republican candidate for
                    president. It was attacked on various sides for this favoritism. The 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Enquirer wanted to know why Harrison and not Gresham was the choice. The Scn-tinel gave the Journal a sharp raking for booming Harrison.
                    "Mr. Harrison may have his supporters for the presidency but to say that he is
                    'the choice of Indiana', 'the only presidential candidate in the
                    State', and all that sort of nonsense is an insult to the intelligence of the readers. The
                    truth is there are more Gresham men m Indiana today than Harrison men."
            February 16 the Republican editors of Indiana held their semiannual meeting at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Here Ex-Governor Albert G. Porter was called on for a speech. He declared that the
                    only living issue of the campaign was free trade or protection. "Deacon" Smith of
                    the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Commercial Gazette was for an intelligent waving of the bloody shirt and declared
                    that a Republican campaign on the tariff would lead to defeat. Langsdale of 
                        Greencastle
                     and other prominent leaders considered the "bloody shirt" the supreme
                    issue. Senator Harrison called attention to one question, now the most absorbing and prominent of
                    the campaign,–that of the free ballot. He considered it not only the State but the
                    national question. The editors were, on the whole, favorable to Harrison, but the sentiment was by
                    no means unanimous. The majority was for an uninstructed delegation to the 
                        Chicago
                     Convention and thought that a vote ought to be given Harrison at the start. This could
                    be transferred to Gresham in case he developed strength.
            The Republican State Central Committee was organized on the 16th with Mr. F. H. Huston as chairman.
                    An effort was made to pledge the unanimous support of the committee to Senator Benjamin Harrison.
                    But there were on the committee two pronounced Gresham men. E. D. Crumpacker and the Tenth District
                    stood boldly for the Judge. Around Fort Wayne much Gresham sentiment was developed. The soldiers
                    there seemed opposed to Harrison.
            
            Many Democrats attacked Harrison as the machine man. They, considered him, and his political
                    existence, as the product, root and branch, of the worst element of Indiana machine pontics. He was
                    "by the machine, of the machine, and for the machine," and if the Gresham men
                    wanted anything in the State they must first smash the machine.
            On February 20 there was a conference in 
                        Indianapolis
                     of a number of prominent party leaders favorable to Gresham's candidacy. Two
                    days later the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune contained an editorial addressed to Indiana politicians. It asked those
                    who were promoting Harrison if they had thoroughly considered his availibility for the presidency,
                    his strength anaong the people, his Chinese record, his prohibition record, etc. "Are they
                    not making a mistake in pushing him instead of Judge Gresham, a far stronger and more popular man?
                    On every point where Harrison is weak, Gresham is strong. He is a man on whom all factions could
                    heartily unite." Truly it was as the Hendricks County Gazette said:
                    Indiana was blest not with a favorite son, but with twins, while there were swaddling clothes
                    prepared for only one.
            March 8 the Democratic State Central Committee met. The date for the State Convention was fixed for
                    April 26. The basis of representation therein was to be one delegate for each 200 votes cast for
                    Isaac P. Gray in 1884 and one additional for each fraction of 100 or over.
            The Prohibition State Convention was held at 
                        Indianapolis
                     March 15-16. Jasper S. Hughes of 
                        Marion county
                     was nominated for Governor. The platform contained planks for the annihilation of the
                    liquor traffic and a free ballot unrestricted by sex. It declared against the levying of greater
                    taxes than necessary for an honest and economical administration of the government. The
                    Prohibitionists claimed from twelve to twenty thousand votes in the State.
            The Democratic State Convention assembled on April 26, Courtland C. Matson and William R. Myers were
                    nominated with little effort for governor and lieutenant-governor. The Hon. W. H. English then read
                    the party platform calling for a reform of the unjust tariff, such civil service reform as would
                    insure an honest administration, legislation for the greatest protection of the interests and
                    welfare of the industrial masses, etc.
            
            Congressman Courtland C. Matson, the nominee for governor, was at the time chairman of the House
                    Committee on Pensions- He was born in 
                        Brookville
                    , Indiana, April 25, 1841. After finishing the common school he went to Indiana Asbury
                    (now DePauw) University. At his graduation he enlisted for the Civil War in the Sixth Indiana
                    Infantry; after serving here a year he was transferred to the Sixth Cavalry and finally became its
                    colonel. At the close of the "War he studied law in 
                        Greencastle
                    , wTas elected prosecutor and became a party leader. He was elected
                    to the Forty-fifth, Forty-eighth and Forty-ninth Congresses.
            Capt. W. R. Myers was born in 
                        Ohio
                     in 1836. He studied law but had hardly begun practice before the War began. He enlisted
                    and served four years in the Fourth Indiana Cavalry; at the close of the War he returned to Anderson
                    and took up his profession. In 1878 he was elected to Congress from the Sixth District, and four
                    years later was elected Secretary of State.
            Speaking of the Democratic Convention the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal said, "Yet, this thoroughly Democratic and Bourbon Convention was
                    controlled by and for renegade Republicans. The principal object of the Convention, and the feature
                    of its work that excited the most interest was to endorse one of these for vice-president, and the
                    point of next greatest interest was the race between the two others for the gubernatorial
                    nomination, resulting in the nomination of one for governor and the other for lieutenant-governor.
                    Gray, Matson, and Myers were all Republicans during the portion of their careers most worthy of
                    honorable mention, and only began to serve the Democracy after they had ceased to serve the
                        country."3
            
            The Republican Convention met May 3 for the election of the four delegates at large. Ex-Governor A.
                    G. Porter, Ex-Secretary R. W- Thompson, J. H. Huston and Hon. Clem. Studebaker were chosen.
                    Indiana's delegation to 
                        Chicago
                     was now complete. The Harrison men had used every device to make the delegation solid
                    for Harrison, but had not entirely succeeded. Indiana's claim for Harrison was that her
                    fifteen electoral votes were essential to Republican success and that her candidate was the only one
                    who could make them sure beyond the shadow of a doubt. The Democrats had tried to make a great deal
                    of the Harrison-Gresham struggle and to 
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, April 27,1888.
               
                     show how the Republican party was already split into factions
                    Many Democrats said that the chief obstacle to the nomination of Gresham was Jay Gould and that the
                    Republican party would not dare nominate a man to whom Jay Gould was opposed. There was nothing
                    objectionable, though, about Harrison. He had been a part of the machine ever since he had entered
                    politics and had never expressed an independent political thought in his life. The Republicans
                    denied this in a most unequivocal manner and maintained that the party was solid, harmonious and
                    united.
            The Prohibition National Convention was held at 
                        Indianapolis
                     May 30-31.- Clinton B. Fisk of 
                        New Jersey
                     was nominated for president and John A. Brooks of 
                        Missouri
                     for vice-president. The platform declared the manufacture, importation, and sale of
                    alcoholic beverages a crime and that prohibition be secured through the amendment of State and
                    national constitutions. It declared against any form of liquor license and against the internal
                    revenue system. It advocated equal suffrage, and arbitration as the Christian, wise, and economic
                    way of settling national differences.
            Early in June the Gray men in Indiana started a Gray boom for the vice-presidency. His candidacy was
                    not successful, however, and Grover Cleveland of 
                        New York
                     and Allen G. Thurman, of 
                        Ohio
                     were nominated by acclamation at the 
                        St. Louis
                     convention, June 6. As soon as the news of the nominations reached Indiana enthusiastic
                    ratification meetings were held at 
                  Shelbyville,
                            Terre Haute
               , 
                        Delphi
                    , 
                  Muncie, Columbus, Greenfield
               , and
                    many other places.
            The Harrison campaign began in Indiana with the tearing down by hoodlums of 
                        Cleveland
                     banners on a prominent thoroughfare in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , about June 28. No one party, however, had a monoply of the rough tricks. After a
                    Harrison-Morton ratification meeting at 
                        New Albany
                    , June 30, the Democrats got a Chinaman drunk and persuaded him to hang up Chinese
                    lanterns, fire fire-works, and shout for Harrison for some time. The Republicans called this the
                    "dirtiest, most contemptible, and dishonorable trick of the campaign. "
            There was an effort on the part of the Democrats to shoM- that Harrison was unfriendly to organized
                    labor. "His public career has been that of an advocate, supporter and apologist of
                    corporations and monopolies." He had been a railroad attorney for many  years, and in the Senate was known as one of the railroad Senators. His
                    votes against anti-Chinese legislation also showed his stand against labor.
            Along toward tiie end of June an absurd incident took place which caused quite a bit of trouble. A
                    certain company was exhibiting a large cyclorama of the Battle of 
                        Atlanta
                    . In some manner or other the figure of General Harrison was inserted in it. In reality
                    the General was several miles away at the time of the battle. The Democratic stockholders especially
                    became exceedingly indignant and raised quite a disturbance. It turned out that the stunt was the
                    work of the manager of the picture, Mr. Perry. He thought that it would be a good place for a boost
                    for the General.
            The Eepublican papers of 
                        Indianapolis
                     tried the 'State pride' plea to obtain votes The Sentinel at once came back with the question as to whether honest Greenbackers were going
                    wild with delight at being able to vote for one who in 1878 wanted them all committed to asylums for
                    the insane.
            By July 6 it was understood that Albert G. Porter had consented to run for Governor. The Democrats
                    said that he was to deliver the Republican and Independent labor vote to Harrison in consideration
                    for which he was to receive a seat in the cabinet when the latter was elected. They did not think
                    either party would be able to carry out his side of the bargain. Porter was not a willing candidate.
                    He would rather have been president, vice-president, Senator, or a foreign ambassador. In reality
                    the Harrison machine hated Porter and only wanted him to pull Harrison's chestnuts out of
                    the fire. Willing candidates were "Will Cumback, J. M. Butler, General A. P. Hovey, and
                    General Shacklef ord.
            The 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Post of July 20 said that the campaign in Indiana would be interesting because
                    there would be lots of boodle for distribution. The Republicans had W. W. Dudley at the head of the
                    campaign and Dudley was a veritable synonym for boodle.
            The Republican plan of campaign on the tariff seemed to be to take the manufacturing industries of
                    the State, one by one, and tell the employees thereof that they would be ruined if the
                    Mill's Bill (reducing the tariff) became a law. The attack started on the saw makers, then
                    hit the tile workers, coal miners and starch makers.
            When Colonel Robert S. Robertson of Port "
                        Wayne
                     heard of the Porter candidacy he became rather angry. He had been favorably  considered by the machine all the time, but now he felt his hold
                    slipping. But July 29 Porter made public his declination of the gubernatorial candidacy. He said
                    that he had served in every Republican campaign since the organization of the party, and that he
                    felt sure that his friends would not press upon him a candidacy to which he would be averse and feel
                    obliged to decline. It was thought that Colonel Robertson's attitude was largely
                    responsible for this refusal.
            The Republicans considered the Prohibition vote the last reliance of the "free-whiskey,
                    liquor-league Democracy." Where-ever possible Democratic money would be used to aid the
                    Fisk-Brooks, third party ticket. A vote for the third party was a vote almost directly against
                    temperance reform and for the freest possible free whiskey. The Democratic party in Indiana had been
                    a consistent friend of the Liquor League and the saloon. The contest was to be one between the
                    free-whiskey, saloon Democracy and the Republican party, a party which had taken every step that had
                    been taken in restricting liquor legislation. The Democrats came back by attacking the
                    "Free Whiskey" plank of the Republican platform. With the tax removed whiskey
                    would come down to twenty-five cents per gallon.
            August 4 the Democracy of Vigo county held its convention. After an imposing night demonstration
                    Senator Voorhees, the "Tall Sycamore of the 
                        Wabash
                    ", sounded the key note of the campaign. He delivered the regular party
                    arguments against the Republican party. He tried to show that the history of the Republican party on
                    taxation was the history of premeditated, organized crime against the laboring people of the 
                        United States
                    . "The campaign on the part of the Democratic party is a war against the unjust
                    taxation of American labor for the benefit of enriched idlers and pampered monopolists."4
            
            At the beginning of August the Republicans were still in a muddle. General Hovey had made it known
                    that he was not a candidate and did not intend to be. Many were still howling for Porter. Robertson
                    was in the fight to stay. He had established headquarters at the Denison Hotel and started an active
                    canvass. The Rev. Ira J. Chase of 
                        Danville
                     was a rather seriously talked-of candidate. He was counted on for the support of the
                    temperance delegates 
                  
                     4
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, August 5,1888
               
                     and church people. George W. Steele of 
                        Marion
                     had not declared his intentions as yet but would loom up strongly if Porter stayed out
                    of the race. Porter's letter of declination had complicated instead of simplifying matters.
                    In a speech to the railroad men August 4, he said, "Gentlemen, I feel that I must stand by
                    my integrity."
            Although the State candidates were attracting quite a bit of the attention of the voters of Indiana,
                    the national candidates were not slighted. The Democrats, headed by the Sentinel
                    were giving Harrison the time of his life. First, there was his Chinese record which was reviewed
                    for the benefit of the laboring class. In an editorial of June 28 the Sentinel
                    said, "The truth is that Senator Harrison voted against the restriction of Chinese
                    immigration because he didn't want it restricted; because he thought the. gates should be
                    opened wide to Chinese as to all other nationalities; and because he was not in sympathy with the
                    demand of American working-men for protection against competition with the Asiatic hordes which have
                    reduced the standard of wages on the Pacific slope to the pauper level."
            There were even graver charges than this for the General to face- He was accused of securing the
                    naturalization of Chinamen in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1880 in order that they might vote the Republican ticket and help Harrison secure
                    the senatorship. At any rate six of only twenty Chinese naturalized in the 
                        United States
                     were naturalized just previous to the election of 1880. Certain of the Chinese, still
                    residing in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , admitted the fact that they had voted the Republican ticket in 1880. Then came the
                    attack upon Harrison's labor record in general. His position during the strike of 1877
                    seemed to be an especially vulnerable point. Senator Joseph Bailey made a speech at 
                        Mozart Hall
                    , 
                        Indianapolis
                    , August 30 which dealt almost entirely with Harrison and the strike. "He had
                    an opportunity to expand to the full proportion of a friend and champion of labor. Did he do it? Let
                    the answer come from as despicable a record as was ever made. Let it come from insulting harangues.
                    Let it come from the pleadings of a paid attorney of railroads. Let it come from the tramp, tramp,
                    tramp, of soldiers led by Harrison and equipped to shoot down railroad men at the word of
                    command." When the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     railroad company went into the  hands of the
                    receiver, Harrison had become the attorney of that official. In the final settlement, besides sums
                    allowed the attorneys from time to time, Harrison had received $21,000
            Early after Harrison's nomination it was rumored on the streets that he had said
                    "That a dollar a day was enough for a workingman," "That if he were
                    governor or sheriff he would force the men- to time at the point of the bayonet,"
                    "That if necessary he would shoot them down," etc. Senator Bailey quoted letters
                    from strikers residing in 
                        Indianapolis
                     vouching for the truth of each of these statements.
            Long before this, however, the Journal had given the lie to all such statements.
                    Beginning with the issue of July 6 it ran an advertisement in the editorial column offering one
                    thousand dollars to any man, woman, or child in 
                        Marion county
                    , Indiana, or the 
                        United States
                     and territories, producing the proof that General Harrison ever said "That a
                    dollar a day was enough for any workingman." The Sentinel called this the
                    "Thousand-Dollar Bluff," and added incidentally that it had never asserted that
                    Harrison had made the remark in question.
            The Republican State caucus met August 6. As a result it was made certain that Porter would not be a
                    candidate. It appeared as though Porter had been misrepresented by his too-anxious friends. In an
                    interview with Steele he had made it clear that he would not accept the nomination. Steele had
                    profited by the withdrawal and Hovey was only mentioned now and then. The Sentinel
                    represented the Republicans as being in quite a predicament. "Cumback is a fanatic on the
                    liquor question, Robertson made a fiasco in the legislative contest of 1887, Steele is a smiling
                    nonenity with a deal of assurance and a very small equipment of brains, and Chase is a bloviating
                    humbug. Huston, Hovey and Lew Wallace have decided the game isn't worth the
                    price." 5
            
            On the 7th of August Porter's ghost still hung around the Republican camp. He was kept busy
                    all day refusing and made a final refusal to a committee which called on him.
            The Republican State platform indorsed and ratified the action of the National Convention of 
                        Chicago
                    . It then declared that "crimes against equal ballot and equal representation
                    are destructive of free government. The iniquitous and unfair apportionment 
                  
                     6
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Sentinel, August 7,1888.
               
                     for Congress and the General Assembly, made at the behest of
                    the liquor league of Indiana, followed by conspiracy and forgery upon the election returns of 1886,
                    in 
                        Marion county
                    , for which a number of prominent Democratic leaders were indicted and tried, two of
                    whom are now serving the deserved penalty of their acts demands the rebuke of every patriotic
                    citizen." The Gerrymander was then condemned and the actions of the Democrats in the last
                    Legislature attacked. These were characterized as "revolutionary and criminal."
                    "The will of the people, expressed in a peaceable and lawful election, advised and
                    participated in by the Democratic party, was set at defiance, and the constitution and laws as
                    expounded by the Supreme Court of the 
                        United States
                    , disregarded and nullified.–The alleged election of a 
                        United States
                     senator was accomplished by fraud and forced by high-handed usurpation of power, the
                    overthrow of constitutional and legal forms, the setting aside of the results of popular election
                    and the theft of the prerogatives of duly elected and qualified members of the legislature. The
                    stolen senatorship is a part of the Democratic administration at "Washington, now in power
                    by virtue of public crimes and the nullification of the constitution and laws."
            The Republicans favored the passage and enforcement of laws which would prevent the competition of
                    imported, servile, convict or contract labor of all kinds with free labor; the prohibition of the
                    employment of young children in factories and mines; the guarantee to workingmen of the most
                    favorable conditions of service, especially proper safeguards for life and comfort in mines and
                    factories, on railroads and in all hazardous occupations. They also desired the reduction of hours
                    wherever practicable and the submission to just and impartial arbitration, under regulations that
                    would make the arbitration effective, all controversies between workingmen and their employers.
                    "Railway and other corporations should be subject to control through the legislative power
                    that created them; their undue influence in legislation and in the courts, and the imposition of
                    unnecessary burdens upon the people, through illegitimate increase of stock or capital, should be
                    summarily prevented."
            Another plank demanded that politics and legislation be kept from the influence of the saloon and it
                    advocated local option, by  which the various communities
                    throughout the State might do as they demed best,–either control or suppress the traffic
                    in intoxicating liquors
            At 10:00 a. m. on the 8th, when the convention assembled the Porter feeling was intense. A night of
                    caucusing had done no good. The account of Porter's final refusal fell like a wet blanket.
                    For a while things looked favorable to Robertson, but during a recess the machine element united
                    with the Porter forces and by giving the impression that Robertson was responsible for the
                    ex-governor's withdrawal, helped in bringing about the defeat of the Allen cdunty man.
                    According to the Sentinel's account, Chairman Calkins was with the
                    machine program and recognized all who wanted to second Hovey's nomination. In this way
                    enough votes were secured to nominate Hovey. The machine didn't particularly want Hovey but
                    was determined to defeat Robertson. Ira J. Chase was nominated for lieutenant governor.
            The Republican candidate for governor, Alvin P. Hovey, was born in 
                        Posey county
                     in 1821. He studied law with a distinguished lawyer, J. Pitcher of 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    . He was a delegate to the Indiana Constitutional Convention of 1850-51 and took a
                    prominent part in the debates. From 1851- to 1854 Hovey was judge of the circuit court, and from
                    1854 to 1855 of the State Supreme Court. He was 
                        United States
                     District Attorney for the State under Pierce and Buchanan. During the "War he
                    was colonel of the Twenty-fourth Regiment of volunteers and became a major general in 1864-From 1865
                    to 1870 he was minister to Peru. Before the War he was a Democrat.
            In brief, the Republicans stated the issues as follows:– 
                  The gerrymander of the State for legislative purposes in 1885.
                  The infamous management of the insane hospital and its notorious prostitution for
                            political purposes.
                  The usurpation of Green Smith, his bold theft of the office of lieutenant governor and the
                            revolutionary proceedings accompanying it.
                  The wholesale corruption in the Southern Prison.
                  The Sim Coy tally-sheet forgeries.
               
            
            In the Legislature of 1884-5 the Democrats had a majority on joint ballot of 46.- Not content with
                    this they redistricted the  State so as to give them a still
                    larger majority, making a gerrymander of which Senator Voorhees said that he should feel personally
                    disgraced if it did not give the Democrats a majority of fully two-thirds.
            There had been corruption in the Democratic management of the State charitable institutions but the
                    Republican account was undoubtedly exaggerated. "Nothing in the history of the State has
                    excited more popular indignation than the prostitution of the Insane Hospital by a corrupt ring of
                    Democratic politicians, including the abuse of the inmates and feeding them on maggoty butter and
                    diseased hogs supplied by favored contractors of the ring." As for Mr. Smith, his
                    usurpation of the office of lieutenant governor wras the most high-handed
                    outrage ever attempted in the State. The Sim Coy tally-sheet forgeries were a part of the Democratic
                    scheme to carry 
                        Marion county
                     and to obtain a majority in the Legislature. The two imprisoned ring-leaders were
                    regarded and treated as Democratic martyrs- Coy still drew pay as councilman from the Eighteenth
                    Ward of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In this manner the Republicans stated the State issues.
            Throughout the month of August great tariff arguments were put forth by both parties in their
                    respective organs. There were long comparisons of the conditions of foreign and American labor and
                    manufactures. The Republicans made a strong plea to the common sense of the workingman and said
                    "He can't be fooled."
            By August 30 the State campaign had begun in real earnest. On that date Matson made an address at 
                        Logansport
                    . There was a big reception and parade. Enthusiasm was intense. And it was this way all
                    over the State. Both parties were warming up for the final stretch. Pole raisings took place at
                    every town and crossroads. Bandanna clubs were organized. Very often considerable of the rough
                    element made itself evident. In 
                        Monroe county
                     the Republicans bulldozed the colored Democrats. There was much rowdyism in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Speakers were interrupted, insulted etc. There was no lack of speakers to interest the
                    voters of the State. Besides the State candidates there were Gray, Thurman, Blaine, Gen. Sheridan,
                    Anna Dickinson and many others. Governor Gray took the stump for the Democrats and argued against
                    the tariff with all his might. The speeches that Thurman, "The Old Roman," made on
                    his trip through 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Michigan
                     were  followed as closely by Indiana readers as
                    those he made in their own State. Anna Dickinson worked all over the State for the Republicans. She
                    attracted quite a bit of attention. The Republicans also had Mr. A. C. Rankin, a Pittsburgh Knight
                    of Labor, at work in Indiana. He delivered strong tariff speeches and tried especially to convince
                    the workingmen that they wanted a high protective tariff.
            An incident showing the keen rivalry between the parties and speakers occured at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . General George A. Sheridan was scheduled to speak. The Democrats hired all the bands
                    in town and, being in with the officials, got possession of the court house steps where the
                    Republican speaker was scheduled to speak. There was a counter parade also. At last, however, the
                    Republicans scared up another band and had a parade in spite of the Democrats.
            In the course of the campaign General Hovey did not escape unattacked. His weak point was found to be
                    his homestead record. Section 22, Article 1, of the Indiana Constitution reads: The privilege of the
                    debtor to enjoy the necessary comforts of life shall be recognized by wholesome laws, exempting a
                    reasonable amount of property from seizure or -sale for the payment of any debt or liability
                    hereafter contracted; and there shall be no imprisonment for debt except in case of fraud.
            With the exception of the last clause the above was reported to the Constitutional Convention of 1850
                    and adopted by 108 to A. P. Hovey and seventeen others. Then Hovey was accused of being exclusive,
                    aristocratic, and unpopular. He had no personal friends. It was said that he claimed the soul of
                    Napoleon Bonaparte. He believed' in the transmigration of souls, and as he was born at the
                    hour of Napoleon's death he claimed to be the great Napoleon reincarnated.
            Besides this Hovey had to explain his action against the negroes and Jews. In the Constitutional
                    Convention he had voted for a provision making it a crime for any negro to come into the State of
                    Indiana. During the War he issued a proscriptive order as a miltary commander, against the Jews as a
                    class. He excluded them from his lines and denounced them as mercenary spies, traitors, and
                    bloodhounds of commerce. All this made good campaign material for the Democrats.
            
            Towards the end of September certain Democrats began to take up the Journal's offer of $1000 for the proof of any of the eight calumnies in
                    circulation. The Journal said if these proofs were pushed
                    officially,–by Thomas Taggart, Charles L. Jewett, etc., it would put up the money.
            For some weeks the Republicans had been attacking Matson through his attitude on pensions. Matson had
                    distributed throughout the State quite a number of copies of a pension speech made July 28 in the
                    House of Representatives. The Journal said that this speech, though printed in the
                        Congressional Record, and circulated as a public document under
                    Matson's frank, was never delivered in the House. In this respect the speech was no more
                    fraudulent than some other speeches, but what hurt was the fact that the speech attempted to prove
                    that the Democrats in Congress and the 
                        Cleveland
                     administration had been pre-eminently the soldier's friend. The letter,
                    according to the Republican view was entirely in keeping with Matson's established
                    character as a tricky politician and demagogue. "It is simply a campaign document,
                    cunningly formed to deceive the old soldiers and whitewash the record of the Democratic party on the
                    pension question. Colonel Matson himself, as chairman of the Committee on Invalid Pensions, has
                    prevented pension legislation as effectually as if he had been put there for that purpose, and
                    probably he was."6 Contin-ing, the Journal explained
                    that for years past the Democratic opposition to pension legislation had been "stealthy and
                    insidious," but none the less determined and effective. The entire pension system was the
                    work of the Republican party and not a pension law on the statue books had been passed but over
                    Democratic opposition, secret or open. The committee on invalid pensions, of which Mat-son was
                    chairman, was the graveyard of pension bills. Here they were smothered, strangled and done to death.
                    Such, according to the Republicans, was the true record of a man who claimed to be the
                    soldier's friend.
            An example of the Republican method of arguing for the tariff was given in 
                        Indianapolis
                     early in October. Millionaire E. C. Atkins was caught bulldozing his employees. He
                    discharged Democrats from his saw works because they were not in sympathy, politically, with the
                    members of the firm.
            
               
                  6
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Journal, September 28,1888.
            
            
            The tariff was still the paramount issue and came to occupy-more and more attention. Long arguments
                    appeared in both the Sentinel and Journal. These were widely
                    circulated by the whole Indiana press. In the Sentinel of October 2nd there
                    appeared a long article entitled, "Indiana and the Tariff,–the Experience of a
                    Hundred Years." In this it was shown how the State had gained under a low tariff and lost
                    under a high one. A lesson was taken from 
                        Ireland
                    . Besides the religious wars, what had been most injurious to 
                        Ireland
                     was the persistent taxation of that country for the benefit of English manufacturers.
            For several weeks vague rumors had been circulating to the effect that the Republicans were going to
                    colonize Indiana. The 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Herald of October 2 gave forth the startling news that two hundred 
                        Chicago
                     negroes had left the Polk street depot on Friday evening and three hundred on Saturday.
                    They were bound for various points in Northern Indiana. The idea was to colonize them throughout the
                    State so that they might vote for Harrison in the election.
            Throughout October there were big speech-makings, celebrations, and rallies of all kinds. The loyal
                    supporters marched in uniform and at night there were long parades in which torches, transparent
                    banners and colored fire figured prominently. Both parties were now working in all earnestness for
                    votes. On the fifth, W. H. Smith, Secretary of the Lincoln League of Indiana sent the following
                    letter to the clubs all over the State: "Is there not some Democratic voter you can win
                    over———? I would suggest that your executive committee, or a
                    committe of wise and discreet men appoint ed for the purpose, choose from among the Democrats in
                    your section some two or more of them and systematically work to win them over. Much depends -upon
                    your discretion, but work with a purpose."7 The Democrats had quite a
                    bit to say about this letter but if the truth were known it would have disclosed similar methods on
                    their part
            James G. Blaine spoke in 
                        Indianapolis
                     October 11. A great crowd turned out to hear the noted Republican, and he and not
                    Harrison was the center of attraction. On the following day Governor Hill,
                    Democratic candidate for re-election as governor of 
                        New York
                     spoke amid real enthusiasm.
            
               
                  7
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, October 6,1888.
            
            
            It is very amusing, to say the least, to notice the accounts the respective party organs give. of the
                    meetings of their parties. Meetings of hundreds, of course, were always reported as so many
                    thousands. For instance according' to the Sentinel, 50,000 people heard
                    Thurman speak at 
                        Shelbyville
                    , October 15, a rainy day.8 Another crowd of 50,000 was reported as
                    greeting the Old Roman at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . This seemed to be a favorite number with the Democrats.
            Concerning the 
                        Marion county
                     campaign a member of the Republican committee said, "We have evidence to
                    warrant us to believe that our work so far has brought about such good results that the Democrats
                    can do nothing to give them any chance except to resort to those methods for which some of their
                    party leaders in the past have been infamous." Each party thoroughly distrusted the other
                    and tried to make it appear that it was the sole obstacle in the way of a fair election scheme. For
                    instance, we learn from the Democratic papers that Chairman Jewett of the Democratic State
                    Committee, unable to secure the cooperation of the Republican managers in any fair and practical
                    scheme to secure an honest election in 
                        Marion county
                     and the State, took, by direction of the committee. measures to effect that object. A
                    committee of one hundred leading Democrats was selected to devise means of protecting the ballot box
                    from fraud on November 6. The following letter, written by. J. W. Huston, Republican State chairman,
                    and labeled "In Strictest Confidence" appeared in the Democratic papers on the
                    eightheenth:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Republican State Committee, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 , Ind.
                           ,
                                        Sept. 9, 1888.
                        My Dear Sir:–
                        I am reliably informed that the Democracy intend at the close of the campaign to
                                    inaugurate the plan of circulating the most infamous lies and indulge in forgeries
                                    and other frauds that will eclipse the Morey letter of '80. We must
                                    anticipate their movements and should through our own newspapers advise our party
                                    friends of their base intentions, by so doing we will rob them of their thunder. I
                                    wish you would refer to the above as often as you think necessary. I think the
                                    reports that the Democracy are well and liberally supplied with funds, should be
                                    rigorously circulated, if the impression prevails that the Democracy have a very
                                    large amount of money, it will be found necessary that they divide generously to
                                    hold their own people. I am satisfied, too, that it is now proposed to colonize
                                    voters in various parts of the State and this should be given to our friends that
                                    they may be on their guard. We cannot be too vigilant; the enemy will fight
                                    desperately and resort to any means to win. What I have written is in the strictest
                                    confidence and for your own use.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    J. W. HOUSTON Chairman.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  8
                        Sentinel, October 15,1888
            
            
            Early in the campaign the Republicans had said that a vote for the Prohibitionists was a vote for the
                    Democrats. Now the Demo-ocrats said the same thing of the Union Labor party. The presidential ticket
                    of this party was headed by Alson J. Streeter. The Republicans, according to their political
                    opponents, made strenuous efforts to capture the organization of the Union Labor party and from all
                    appearances succeeded. Large amounts of money were believed to have been used in manipulating the
                    Union Labor movement. The Streeter campaign was pushed vigorously in Democratic counties and not in
                    Republican. In this manner it was hoped to catch the Republicans who would vote for Harrison. Many
                    agents were really in Republican pay as each one won over from the Democrats counted one half a vote
                    for Harrison.
            From the Sentinel October 30 came the following warning: "Men like Dorsey
                    will come to Indiana again as they came in 1880 and disburse $400,000 in the Denison
                    house parlors to be used in buying votes, hiring repeaters, bribing election officers to stuff
                    ballot-boxes and falsify election returns. You know that there are men in high office because they
                    connive at such crimes and it is no secret that men honored by party are honored mainly because they
                    aided the escape of arrested felons who were hired to come from other States to violate the election
                    laws of Indiana." This warning to the voters was run in large print on the first page. The
                    article then told of the coming of Mr. Dudley. "Dudley is coming" became almost as
                    common a refrain as the same news about the Campbells. "A recast of the plotters of 1880 is
                    on the bill-board of the Slick Six,-with Dudley as the star in Dorsey's original soap act,
                    at the New Dennison for one week only. This company of trained ballot-box de-filers has been
                    reinforced by Rathbone, the 
                        Cincinnati
                     election bully, and John Jarett, the juggler of workingmen's votes, of great
                    experience."
            Many copies of the National Tribune had been circulated in Indiana. It was
                    professed to be published in the interest of the old soldiers but the Democrats said it
                    "really was the organ of the ring that robs the government with one hand and applicants for
                    pensions with the other."
            The Sentinel of October 31 threw the Republican camp into a panic. In large
                    scare-head capitals ran–"The Plot to Buy Indiana.–Dudley's
                    Scheme of the Wholesale Bribery Revealed  In a Circular Letter
                    Over His Own Signature.–The 'Floaters' To Be Divided Into
                    'Blocks of Five'.–Every 'Block' to be Put in Charge
                    of a 'Trusted Man' with 'Necessary Funds'.–He to See
                    that 'None Get Away', and that 'All Vote Our
                    Ticket'–The 'Best Business Men' to be Used as Stalking
                    Horses.–Threats that 'Some One Will Get Hurt' if 
                        New York
                     goes Democratic.–A Case for the 'Fair Election League' and
                    the 'Committees of One Hundred," Then came Dudley's letter. It was set in
                    the form of a circular typewritten letter, bearing the autograph signature of "William
                    "W. Dudley, National Republican treasurer, to the chairman of a Republican county central
                    committee in Indiana, and doubtless to other county chairmen and to the trusted agents of the
                    Republican managers throughout the State. The following letter was produced in fac-simile.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              HEADQUARTERS REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE,
                              91 Fifth Avenue,
                               
                                 
                                    New York
                                 
                              
                           ,
                                        Oct. 29, 1888.
                        Dear Sir:–
                        I hope you have kept copies of the lists sent me. Such information is very valuable
                                    and can be used to great advantage. It has enabled me to demonstrate to friends here
                                    that with proper assistance Indiana is surely Republican for Governor and President,
                                    and has resulted, as I hoped it would, in securing for Indiana the aid necessary.
                                    Your committee will certainly receive from Chairman Huston the assistance necessary
                                    to hold our floaters and doubtful voters, and gain enough of the other kind to give
                                    Harrison and Morton 10,000 plurality. 
                                        New York
                                     is now safe beyond per-adventure for the Republican presidential
                                    ticket; 
                                        Connecticut
                                     likewise. In short every Northern State, except possibly 
                                        New Jersey
                                    . though we still hope to carry that State. Harrison's majority
                                    in the Electoral College will not be less than 100. Make our friends in each
                                    precinct wake up to the fact that only boodle and fraudulent votes and false
                                    counting of returns can beat us in the State. Write each of your precinct
                                    correspondents, 1st, to find who has Democratic boodle, and steer the Democratic
                                    workers to them, and make them pay big prices for their own men. Second scan the
                                    election officers closely, and make sure to have no man on the Board whose integrity
                                    is even questionable, and insist on Republicans watching every moment of the
                                    election officers. Third, see that our workers know every voter entitled to a vote,
                                    and let no one else offer to vote. Fourth. divide the floaters into blocks of five
                                    and put a trusted man with necessary funds in charge of these five and make him
                                    responsible that none get away and that all vote our ticket. Fifth, make a personal
                                    appeal to your best business men to pledge themselves to devote the entire day, Nov.
                                    6, to work at the polls, i. e. to be present at the polls with tickets. They will be
                                    astonished to see how utterly dumbfounded the ordinary Democratic election bummer
                                    will be and how quickly he will disappear. The results  will fully justify the sacrifice of time and comfort,
                                    and will be a source of satisfaction afterwards to those'who help in this
                                    way. Lay great stress on this last matter. It will pay
                        There will be no doubt of your receiving the necessary assistance through the
                                    National, State and County Committees,–only see that it is husbanded and
                                    made to produce results. 1 rely on you to advise your precinct correspondents, and
                                    urge them to unremitting and constant efforts from now till the polls close, and the
                                    result is announced officially. We will fight for a fair election here if necessary.
                                    The Rebel crew can't steal this election from us as they did in 1884,
                                    without someone getting hurt. Let every Republican do his whole duty and the country
                                    will pass into Republican hands, never to leave it, I trust. Thanking you again for
                                    your efforts to assist me in my work, I remain
                        
                                    Yours sincerely
                                    W. W. DUDLEY.
                                
                        Please wire me results in principal precincts and county.
                     
                  
               
                
            The consternation created by this letter can well be imagined. That Dudley would sign his name to
                    such a document was almost unbelievable, but Dudley was a bold man. The lists referred to in the
                    letter were lists of floaters or purchaseable voters. The traffic in votes was open and frank just
                    as if they were legitimate merchandise. The Republicans especially were excited by the letter. Some
                    were for denying it and calling it forgery. The wiser ones argued that it would be better to
                    repudiate Dudley. J. W. Huston, the Republican State chairman, wrote to the papers saying that
                    Dudley had nothing to do with the management of the Indiana campaign and that he knew nothing of any
                    intention on Dudley's part to address a letter to anyone in Indiana. Dudley himself denied
                    the letter as a base forgery.
            At the same time that this letter appeared a statement of Hon. John C. New to the Omaha Republican
                    was made public. New said that a complete poll of the voters of Indiana had been taken and that the
                    Republican managers knew just how big the float was. Also that they could be depended iipon not to
                    loose any of that element.9
            
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                     Democrats claimed that after they had spotted the imported negroes the Republicans
                    opened up a new scheme; 
                        Cincinnati
                     repeaters were being brought in for 
                        Marion county
                    .
            The Sentinel of October 2 made known its offer of $1000 to Mr. Dudley if
                    he would come to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and swear that he did not 
                  
                     9 Omaha Republican, September 27,1888.
               
                     write the letter. Dudley made no defense beyond the details as
                    copied by the 
                        New York
                    
                    Sun and Times.
            
            November 4, warrant was issued by the 
                        United States
                     authorities for the arrest of Mr. Dudley. On the same day Chairman Jewett received a
                    telegram from Senator Calvin S. Brice of 
                        New York
                    . It stated that a number of 
                        New York
                     citizens, moved by the Dudley letter, had resolved to place $20,000 at the
                    disposal of the committee for the vigorous prosecution of every man in Indiana who would practice
                    Dudley's methods.
            Through the Sentinel Mr. Jewett offered $5000 for the conviction of
                    Dudley on a bribery charge or for inducing others to bribe the voters of Indiana. In addition
                    $1000 each for five others conspiring or confederating to bribe according to the plan set
                    forth in Dudley's letter, was offered, and $100 each for not to exceed one
                    hundred persons who should bribe or attempt to bribe as per plan.
            The Eepublicans attempted to draw attention from the Dudley affair by spreading the story that the
                    Democrats intended to work the double ticket plan all over the State on election day.
            November 3, three days before the election Chairman Jewett predicted the State safe for 
                        Cleveland
                     and Hendricks by a larger plurality than in 1884. But Mr. Jewett was badly mistaken as
                    the following table of the Indiana returns will show.10
            
            
               
                  
                            Counties
                        
                  
                            President
                        
                  
                            Governor
                        
               
               
                   
                  Harrison
                  Cleveland
                  Hovey
                  Matson
               
               
                  
                            
                                Adams
                            
                        
                  1277
                  2936
                  1284
                  2929
               
               
                  
                            
                                Allen
                            
                        
                  5455
                  9692
                  5443
                  9685
               
               
                  
                            
                                Bartholomew
                            
                        
                  2742
                  3109
                  2730
                  3113
               
               
                  Benton
                  1626
                  1425
                  1629
                  1424
               
               
                  
                            
                                Blackford
                            
                        
                  1141
                  1232
                  1138
                  1233
               
               
                  
                            
                                Boone
                            
                        
                  3441
                  3324
                  3441
                  3320
               
               
                  
                            
                                Brown
                            
                        
                  661
                  1538
                  662
                  1534
               
               
                  
                            
                                Carrol
                            
                        
                  2607
                  2560
                  2608
                  2560
               
               
                  
                            
                                Cass
                            
                        
                  3822
                  4221
                  3818
                  4206
               
               
                  
                            
                                Clark
                            
                        
                  3206
                  3788
                  3202
                  3794
               
               
                  
                            
                                Clay
                            
                        
                  3711
                  3773
                  3743
                  3771
               
               
                  
                            
                                Clinton
                            
                        
                  3519
                  3278
                  3518
                  3276
               
               
                  
                            
                                Crawford
                            
                        
                  1445
                  1628
                  1447
                  1628
               
               
                  
                            
                                Daviess
                            
                        
                  2691
                  2689
                  692
                  2698
               
               
                  
                            
                                Dearborn
                            
                        
                  2648
                  3531
                  2645
                  3534
               
               
                  
                            
                                Decatur
                            
                        
                  2663
                  2400
                  2660
                  2398
               
               
                  
                            
                                DeKalb
                            
                        
                  2879
                  3160
                  2875
                  3148
               
            
            
               
                  10 Indiana State Journal, November 21 and December 5,
                        1888.
            
            
            
               
                  
                            Counties
                        
                  
                            President
                        
                  
                            Governor
                        
               
               
                   
                  Harrison
                  Cleveland
                  Hovey
                  Matson
               
               
                  
                            
                                Delaware
                            
                        
                  4227
                  2368
                  4220
                  2371
               
               
                  
                            
                                Dubois
                            
                        
                  1220
                  2986
                  1221
                  2984
               
               
                  
                            
                                Elkhart
                            
                        
                  4955
                  4464
                  4962
                  4449
               
               
                  
                            
                                Fayette
                            
                        
                  1953
                  1471
                  1948
                  1476
               
               
                  
                            
                                Floyd
                            
                        
                  2947
                  3824
                  2938
                  3834
               
               
                  
                            
                                Fountain
                            
                        
                  2608
                  2525
                  2610
                  2526
               
               
                  
                            
                                Franklin
                            
                        
                  1712
                  2872
                  1713
                  2874
               
               
                  
                            
                                Fulton
                            
                        
                  2053
                  2163
                  2048
                  2162
               
               
                  
                            
                                Gibson
                            
                        
                  2953
                  2721
                  2946
                  2723
               
               
                  
                            
                                Grant
                            
                        
                  3929
                  2990
                  3918
                  2982
               
               
                  
                            
                                Greene
                            
                        
                  2934
                  2659
                  2930
                  2665
               
               
                  
                            
                                Hamilton
                            
                        
                  3599
                  2412
                  3595
                  2404
               
               
                  
                            
                                Hancock
                            
                        
                  1986
                  2376
                  1985
                  2380
               
               
                  
                            
                                Harrison
                            
                        
                  2133
                  2529
                  2134
                  2526
               
               
                  
                            
                                Hendricks
                            
                        
                  3297
                  2083
                  3286
                  2079
               
               
                  
                            
                                Henry
                            
                        
                  3849
                  2277
                  3844
                  2284
               
               
                  
                            
                                Howard
                            
                        
                  3604
                  2002
                  3599
                  2197
               
               
                  
                            
                                Huntington
                            
                        
                  3559
                  3481
                  3567
                  3474
               
               
                  
                            
                                Jackson
                            
                        
                  2263
                  3235
                  2264
                  3235
               
               
                  
                            
                                Jasper
                            
                        
                  1604
                  1003
                  1602
                  1002
               
               
                  
                            
                                Jay
                            
                        
                  2811
                  2741
                  2810
                  2741
               
               
                  
                            
                                Jefferson
                            
                        
                  3321
                  2700
                  3313
                  2708
               
               
                  
                            
                                Jennings
                            
                        
                  2057
                  1598
                  2051
                  1603
               
               
                  
                            
                                Johnson
                            
                        
                  2168
                  2594
                  2159
                  2602
               
               
                  
                            
                                Knox
                            
                        
                  2922
                  3621
                  2913
                  3627
               
               
                  
                            
                                Kosciusko
                            
                        
                  4147
                  3081
                  4139
                  3080
               
               
                  
                            
                                Lagrange
                            
                        
                  2262
                  1516
                  2256
                  1506
               
               
                  
                            
                                Lake
                            
                        
                  2543
                  2068
                  2544
                  2072
               
               
                  
                            
                                Laporte
                            
                        
                  3722
                  4607
                  3746
                  4587
               
               
                  
                            
                                Lawrence
                            
                        
                  2356
                  1814
                  2225
                  1813
               
               
                  
                            
                                Madison
                            
                        
                  3436
                  3928
                  3436
                  3928
               
               
                  
                            
                                Marion
                            
                        
                  17139
                  17515
                  17021
                  17619
               
               
                  
                            
                                Marshall
                            
                        
                  2582
                  3188
                  2587
                  3190
               
               
                  
                            
                                Martin
                            
                        
                  1391
                  1558
                  1394
                  1555
               
               
                  
                            
                                Miami
                            
                        
                  3042
                  3492
                  3032
                  3495
               
               
                  
                            
                                Monroe
                            
                        
                  2054
                  1815
                  2050
                  1819
               
               
                  
                            
                                Montgomery
                            
                        
                  4011
                  3763
                  4006
                  3773
               
               
                  
                            
                                Morgan
                            
                        
                  2500
                  2077
                  2488
                  2080
               
               
                  
                            
                                Newton
                            
                        
                  1283
                  860
                  1282
                  861
               
               
                  
                            
                                Noble
                            
                        
                  3026
                  2979
                  3011
                  2993
               
               
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  726
                  585
                  725
                  588
               
               
                  
                            
                                Orange
                            
                        
                  1779
                  1654
                  1778
                  1656
               
               
                  
                            
                                Owen
                            
                        
                  1632
                  1918
                  1625
                  1926
               
               
                  
                            
                                Parke
                            
                        
                  2764
                  2159
                  2772
                  2151
               
               
                  
                            
                                Perry
                            
                        
                  1974
                  2007
                  1976
                  2007
               
            
            
            
               
                  
                            Counties
                        
                  
                            President
                        
                  
                            Governor
                        
               
               
                   
                  Harrison
                  Cleveland
                  Hovey
                  Matson
               
               
                  
                            
                                Pike
                            
                        
                  2197
                  2098
                  2209
                  2091
               
               
                  
                            
                                Porter
                            
                        
                  2427
                  2018
                  2427
                  2011
               
               
                  
                            
                                Posey
                            
                        
                  2369
                  2684
                  2411
                  2641
               
               
                  
                            
                                Pulaski
                            
                        
                  1223
                  1446
                  1220
                  1446
               
               
                  
                            
                                Putnam
                            
                        
                  2570
                  3016
                  2555
                  3024
               
               
                  
                            
                                Randolph
                            
                        
                  4629
                  2256
                  4628
                  2249
               
               
                  
                            
                                Ripley
                            
                        
                  2404
                  2381
                  2404
                  2381
               
               
                  
                            
                                Rush
                            
                        
                  2713
                  2292
                  2700
                  2299
               
               
                  
                            
                                Scott
                            
                        
                  743
                  1030
                  742
                  1030
               
               
                  
                            
                                Shelby
                            
                        
                  2877
                  3409
                  2879
                  3412
               
               
                  
                            
                                Spencer
                            
                        
                  2733
                  2685
                  2736
                  2684
               
               
                  
                            
                                Starke
                            
                        
                  834
                  904
                  833
                  904
               
               
                  
                            
                                Steuben
                            
                        
                  2352
                  1348
                  2351
                  1347
               
               
                  
                            
                                St. Joseph
                            
                        
                  4929
                  5257
                  4921
                  5256
               
               
                  
                            
                                Sullivan
                            
                        
                  1902
                  3382
                  1905
                  3377
               
               
                  
                            
                                Switzerland
                            
                        
                  1560
                  1637
                  1562
                  1629
               
               
                  
                            
                                Tippecanoe
                            
                        
                  5072
                  4281
                  5058
                  4287
               
               
                  
                            
                                Tipton
                            
                        
                  2042
                  2370
                  2038
                  2373
               
               
                  
                            
                                Union
                            
                        
                  1108
                  868
                  1104
                  864
               
               
                  
                            
                                Vanderburg
                            
                        
                  6027
                  5889
                  6109
                  5846
               
               
                  
                            
                                Vermillion
                            
                        
                  1730
                  1438
                  1733
                  1435
               
               
                  
                            
                                Vigo
                            
                        
                  6273
                  6102
                  6265
                  6106
               
               
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
                  3986
                  2555
                  3985
                  2558
               
               
                  
                            
                                Warren
                            
                        
                  1847
                  1017
                  1845
                  1019
               
               
                  
                            
                                Warrick
                            
                        
                  2361
                  2557
                  2375
                  2551
               
               
                  
                            
                                Wayne
                            
                        
                  6138
                  3653
                  6132
                  3651
               
               
                  
                            
                                Washington
                            
                        
                  1847
                  2389
                  1847
                  2397
               
               
                  
                            
                                Wells
                            
                        
                  1926
                  2942
                  1915
                  2939
               
               
                  
                            
                                White
                            
                        
                  1942
                  2017
                  1943
                  2021
               
               
                  
                            
                                Whitley
                            
                        
                  2133
                  2325
                  2129
                  2320
               
               
                  Total
                  263,361
                  261,013
                  263,194
                  261,003
               
            
            Of the ninety-two counties of Indiana, forty-two went for 
                        Cleveland
                     and fifty for Harrison. Hovey carried forty-nine counties and Matson forty-three.
                    Hovey's vote was 263,194 and Mat-son's 261,003, making a Republican plurality of
                    2191. It will be noticed that the Democrats carried 
                        Marion county
                    . 
                        Cleveland
                    's plurality there was 376 and Matson's 598. The Democrats carried
                    both houses of the Legislature by large majorities. By excellent gerrymandering they also elected
                    ten of the thirteen Congressmen as follows:
            
            
               
                  District
                  Rep. Candidate
                  Dem. Candidate
                  Rep.
                  Dem.
                  Rep. Plurality
                  Dem. Plurality
               
               
                  1
                  Posey
                  Parrett
                  20627
                  20647
                  …
                  20
               
               
                  2
                  Braxton
                  O'Neall
                  16653
                  18537
                  …
                  1884
               
               
                  3
                  Sayles
                  Brown
                  15198
                  18272
                  …
                  3074
               
               
                  4
                  Wilson
                  Holman
                  16167
                  16905
                  …
                  738
               
               
                  5
                  Duncan
                  Cooper
                  17506
                  18210
                  …
                  704
               
               
                  6
                  Browne
                  Morris
                  23424
                  14302
                  9122
                  …
               
               
                  7
                  Chandler
                  Bynum
                  25500
                  27227
                  …
                  1727
               
               
                  8
                  Johnston
                  Brookshire
                  23084
                  23153
                  …
                  69
               
               
                  9
                  Cheadle
                  McCabe
                  24717
                  20267
                  4450
                  …
               
               
                  10
                  Owen
                  Zimmerman
                  19546
                  18390
                  1156
                  …
               
               
                  11
                  Steele
                  Martin
                  21900
                  22375
                  …
                  475
               
               
                  12
                  White
                  McCellan
                  19028
                  20139
                  …
                  1111
               
               
                  13
                  Hoynes
                  Shively
                  21206
                  21561
                  …
                  355
               
               
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  264,556
                  259,986
                  14,728
                  10,157
               
            
            After the election the Democrats had little to say. They admitted defeat but were not discouraged and
                    said that the fact that the Republican candidate was from Indiana was a tower of strength to the
                    opposition. Not that any voted for him from "state pride" feeling but many
                    expected favors in the way of offices, etc.
            Harrison ran little if any ahead of the Republican State ticket. His own county went Democratic and
                    his own precinct ran behind the Republican State ticket.
         
         
         
            Hindostan—A Pioneer Town of Martin County
            BY CARLOS T. McCARTY Attorney-at-Law, Shoals, Indiana.
            [This was an address delivered at an Old Settlers' Meeting held at 
                        Hindo-stan
                    , 
                        Martin County
                    , Indiana, August 22, 1913.]
            When President Madison took his oath of office on March 4, 1809, he was confronted with danger of a
                    war with 
                        England
                     and also with the fact that Tecumseh and his brother, The Prophet, were organizing the
                    Indians of this portion of the 
                        United States
                     for war with the whites. November seventh, 1811, the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     was fought and the Indians were defeated. Within a few months the first guns of the War
                    of 1812 sounded and the Indians, allied with the British, assumed a hostile attitude. On March 27,
                    1814, at 
                        Tallapoosa
                    , 
                        Alabama
                    , Andrew Jackson defeated the red men so signally that they were not troublesome
                    thereafter, and this wras followed in December, 1814, by the signing of the
                    treaty of Ghent, which declared the war at an end.
            In the meantime several small settlements had been made in the southwestern part of Indiana. At
                    Vallonia, in 
                        Jackson county
                    , there had been a French trading post for many years and in 1813 an iron furnace was
                    operated there. At 
                        Vincennes
                     was an old settlement and also at 
                        Clarksville
                    , near the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    . A trail from Clarksville to 
                        Vincennes
                     crossed the river here at 
                        Hindostan
                    . The close of the War of 1812 and the cessation of hostilities with the Indians caused
                    a decided movement from the East to the fertile regions of southern Indiana. There had been some
                    land entered in this county [Martin] prior to that and a ferry had been established at the point
                    where Houghton's bridge now crosses White river. The land there, the
                    tract just north of the present highway and on the west side of the river, was the first land
                    entered from the 
                        United States
                     in this country. It was selected by General Washington Johnson, a soldier of the
                    revolution, and postmaster at 
                        Vincennes
                    , and he took out his certificate of entry for it June 2, 1807. It was at this place
                    that William McGowan was treacherously shot by Shawnee Indians in the spring of 1812. With the
                    general advancement  from the East there came several parties to
                    the region now embraced in the boundaries of 
                        Martin county
                    . Frederick Sholts located here at 
                        Hindostan
                     and October 20, 1814, entered from the Government the land on which we are now
                    standing.
            At that time there were two other settlements made in this county. Like the one at 
                        Hindostan
                     they were both made on the river. At 
                        Mt. Pleasant
                    , Phillip Davis, Cager Peek, the Summers and Hunt families, Barney and John Eiley, and
                    James and William Lamar had found homes.
            At the present site of Shoals the same year, Clement Horsey located and the following year James
                    Stephens and William Daugherty opened farms on the west side of the river where the town of West
                    Shoals now stands. In 1816 Joel Halbert, Daniel Piles, John Cox, L. Trover, Stephen P. Stringham,
                    Harvey Manning, James Lewis, and Moses Norman located near Clement Horsey. It was thus the
                    conditions were in that early day. Settlements of several families then were at the present site of
                    Shoals and 
                        Mt. Pleasant
                    , and Frederick Sholts at 
                        Hindostan
                    . This was then a portion of 
                        Knox county
                    . In 1816 
                        Daviess county
                     was formed and it embraced what is now known as 
                        Martin county
                    . By the year 1818 a community of several families was located here at 
                        Hindostan
                    . Among them being Joseph Clements, John Prentiss, Henry Prentiss, Thomas Prentiss,
                    George Harris, the Shelmire family and Thomas Brooks. These people seem to have constituted the real
                    bone and sinew of 
                        Martin county
                    . For we find that in March 1819 they evidently had in contemplation the- building of a
                    town here at the falls. On the third day of that month Frederick Sholts sold a three fourths
                    interest in the land on which Hindostan was afterward laid out and two lots, being lots 12 and 24 in 
                        Greenwich
                    , to John Meriam. Greenwich was the first town laid out at the falls and was on the
                    opposite side of the river. The date of its plat, like that of Hindostan, is unknown. However, it is
                    certain that Hindostan was platted between March 13, 1819, and May 29, 1819, for on the latter date
                    a deed was executed conveying lots in Hindostan and designating them as such. 1
            
            
               
                        
                     1 The following notice concerning Hindostan is taken from the diary of W.
                            Faux, who passed over the Trace in 1819 on his way to visit the Birkbeck Settlement in
                            southern 
                                Illinois
                            .
                        
                     
                        
                           
                              "October 29,1819. Breakfasted at an infant ville, Hindostan, on the
                                            falls of White river, a broad, crystal stream, running
                                            navigable to the 
                                                Ohio
                                            , over a bed of sand and stone, smooth and white as a floor of
                                            marble. The baby ville is flourishing, much building is in progress, and
                                            promises to become a pleasant healthy town before I see it again. The land,
                                            too, is rich and inviting. I now crossed White river in
                                            my chariot."
                           
                        
                     –Editor.
                  
                    
            
            
            The town flourished. The country was developing rapidly. Danger from Indians was about over. The
                    woods were still the lurking place of wolves and panthers but the hardy pioneer paid little
                    attention to these animals. In speaking of this ever present peril it may interesting to note one
                    event which tradition has handed down concerning the wolves in this vicinity. It is said that near
                    Hindostan, on one of the farms that was being hewed out of the wilderness, lived a man, his wife,
                    and their infant child. The man was a true pioneer, jovial, entertaining, and a good fiddler. His
                    services were ever in demand at the dances which were given by the early settlers. One night he was
                    called to go to Hindostan to furnish music for a dance. Taking with him his violin he left home in
                    the early evening and wended his way through the forest to the then flourishing town. Here all was
                    brightness and joy. The tallow dips furnished light, the maidens were dressed in their best, their
                    backwood beaux came clad in their holiday attire. The music rang through the trees. The whole town
                    was present and a night of revelry and fun lay before them. Back in the forest, miles from the
                    nearest neighbor, the wife and child awaited the coming of the night. Sitting in the door of the
                    cabin, for it was early autumn and the days were yet warm, the mother crooned a lullaby to her babe
                    and as it sank into sleep laid it in the crude eradle. Still singing she took up her evening tasks.
                    The cow was milked. The backlog was placed on the fireplace and covered with ashes. It was too warm
                    to need the blaze for its cheer, but matches were unknown, the flint and steel uncertain, and the
                    pioneer wife kept fire in the fireplace ready for use. Seeing that the house was safe she went to
                    the poultry house to close it that a few chickens might not be devoured by the roaming foxes and
                    other predacious animals. Just as she closed the poultry house door a w2olf
                    darted into the clearing. It was followed by another, and another. They discovered the defenceless
                    woman and bounded toward her their cruel fangs showing white in the. twilight. Fearing to seek
                    shelter in the cabin lest the wolves should thus be attracted to the open door of her home she
                    hastily entered the chicken house and closed the door behind her. The wolves, as is the custom with
                    such brutes, feeling that their prey was surrounded sat down and began howling. The night came on
                    apace. Yet the babe slept calmly on while the terror stricken mother, safe herself, was powerless to
                    fly to her child. Suddenly  clear and shrill, on the quivering
                    air came the cry of the child. The wolves listened a moment and broke for the cabin. The helpless
                    mother sank to the ground in an agony of fear, it seemed that her cup of tribulation was filled to
                    the brim. Without weapons she could not attack the wolves. Indeed the interval was too short for her
                    to more than breathe a prayer to the throne above. Almost as the words casting upon the Father the
                    care for her child left her lips was her petition, uttered in extremest agony, answered. As the
                    foremost wolf bounded into the cabin door the backlog of the fireplace rolled over and the cabin was
                    filled with a burst of light from the newly kindled fire. Halting, the wolves slunk back and
                    t'irned again to the forest. The mother rushed to the cabin and a ising the door behind her
                    seized her child and again a petition went: p on the night air to the all-hearing ear. This time it
                    was a praj 3r of thankfulness. The mother and her child were safe. Whei the father returned he
                    endeavored to explain the miracle by saying that the vibrations caused by the feet of the wolves as
                    they st nick the pucheon floor caused the backlog to turn. But the mother li red, and when full of
                    years passed into eternity, confident that it was in answer to her prayer that her child was saved.
            But to come back from tradition to history which is written. Shortly after the Hindostan company, as
                    the organization was officially known, was formed, the men composing it became interested in the
                    formation of a new county. They felt that 
                        Daviess
                     Co. was too large and consequently they secured an act of the Legislature creating 
                        Martin county
                    . The county was organized January 17, 1820. Even the organization of a new county did
                    not appease these pioneers. They next wanted the county seat located at their new town of Hindostan.
                    That they were entitled to it was their boast. The only store within the boundary of the county had
                    been opened at 
                        Hindostan
                     by John, Henry and Thomas Prentiss and the Shelmires. Mills were being builded for
                    grinding wheat and corn and carding wool. There was a ferry established connecting the town of
                    Hindostan with the town of Greenwich. People were coming in and settling. Everything was booming, to
                    use a modern phrase. So, within two months after the formation or the county these business men of a
                    century ago proposed to give for the location of the county seat the square known as courthouse
                    square; the Seminary square; one half the square south of Seminary square:  160 acres of land adjoining the town plat on the north and five
                    thousand dollars in cash. In addition they were to purchase for use on the courthouse a three
                    hundred dollar bell. There were but two provisions or conditions attached to their offer. The first
                    was that the courthouse square should be used for nothing but courthouse purposes. The second that
                    of the money donated and that received from the sale of the donated real estate ten per centum
                    should be set aside to establish a public library. This instrument, which is of record in the
                    courthouse at 
                        Shoals
                    , shows that the founders of Hin-dostan were not only business men who proposed doing
                    things when they started, but that they were equally interested in educational matters as one full
                    square was designated to be used for school purposes and ten per cent of all funds to go to
                    establish a public library. Their offer was accepted and it was decided that the courthouse should
                    be located at 
                        Hindostan
                    . June 5 of that year the contract for the courthouse was let to Benj. Adams for
                    $4,185 and the following day Matthias Sholts received the contract to erect a jail for
                    the sum of $1,368.79. The meeting of the board of commissioners which accepted the offer
                    of the proprietors of Hindostan was held March 27, 1820 at the house of Joseph D. Clements in 
                        Hindostan
                    . The county commissioners were Matthias Sholts, John Meriam, and George Mitcheltree.
            It is interesting in this connection to note the method of doing county business in those days. One
                    of the matters determined at that meeting of the county board was tavern keepers' rates. On
                    the twenty-ninth of March the board determined that the rate should be as follows: Keeping horse one
                    night 62½c; one horse feed 12½c; one lodging 12½c; one meal
                    37½c; each half pint of whiskey 12½c; each half pint of French brandy or other
                    foreign distilled spirits 62½c for distilled spirits of domestic manufacture
                    37½c. Think what an uproar would be the result if the commissioners of 
                        Martin county
                     at their next session should endeavor to regulate prices in this method. But our
                    forefathers were of sturdy stock. They did not have so much law to confront them as we now have.
            They were, as a usual matter, honest, trustworthy, brave, diligent. The housewife shared with the
                    husband the burdens of the day. She, too, must be brave and resourceful. She must be quick to think
                    and equally quick to act. Take the tagedy over on the west bank of the river in the spring of 1812.
                    The ferryman, McGowan,  and his wife lived alone in their little
                    cabin. They were peaceable and industrious. The traveler passing from 
                        New Albany
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                     or returning home again was always met by them with ready help. They would assist him
                    across the river and bid him God speed in his journey through the wilderness. One evening in the
                    springtime McGowan was sitting in the shade on the east side of his cabin. There were no travellers
                    needing assistance. As he sat there, in peace with his surroundings, an Indian, one of a small
                    marauding party, fired from this side of the river and the bullet pierced his body. Then did the
                    true heroism of that pioneer woman whom he had taken to be his wife assert itself. No aid was nearer
                    than the small settlement at 
                        Maysville
                    , twenty miles away, on the "West fork of the river. She assisted the stricken
                    man, partially carrying and partially dragging him, into the cabin. She barred the door and closed
                    the window. Then she sat beside her loved one and watched his lifeblood ebb away. As night came on
                    he became weaker and before midnight passed into that realm from which no traveller ever returns.
                    Closing the eyes and gently arranging the body of her slain helpmate for its last long repose, Mrs.
                    McGowan left her home, now desolate, and going to the field caught the horse. She mounted and rode
                    away through the darkness for help that her dead might have christian burial. On through the night
                    she rode. Ever and anon the shrill shriek of a panther would quaver through the air. But on and on
                    she rode until at break of day she had reached the Maysville settlement. Then she returned,
                    accompanied by several sorrowing friends, and erelong the last sad rites were over. Of such firm
                    material were our pioneer mothers made. They have passed on into the land of shadows. But their
                    example remains.
            This session of the county commissioners also fixed the tax rate for the year. A gold watch was to be
                    taxed 50c; a silver one 37½c; oxen 25c; horses 37½c; first class land 50c per
                    hundred acres, second class land 43 ¾c per hundred acres; third class land 31 1/4c per
                    hundred acres; poll tax was fixed at 50c.
            On March 17, 1820 the first circuit court for 
                        Martin county
                     was opened at the house of Joseph D. Clements in 
                        Hindostan
                    . Jonathan Doty was presiding judge and Ezekiel Porter and Frederick Sholts were
                    associate justices. The first business was the issuing of a writ to ascertain what damages would
                    occur by the erection of a mill on  Beaver creek near the
                    present site of the town of Huron.2 The petitioner was Charles E. Brown. The
                    county officers then, other than those who have been heretofore named, were Thomas G. Prentiss,
                    clerk and recorder; Julius Johnson, sheriff; John P. Porter, prosecuting attorney.
            Now that a town had been established, the county seat located there, stores opened, mills erected,
                    and all the necessary groundwork for a thriving municipality prepared the men who had pushed into
                    existence this city of the wilderness felt that it was time for them to seek reward for their
                    labors.
            Consequently the Hindostan company disbanded. The promoters divided, by what is termed in the record
                    a partner's deed, the town lots and lands among themselves. This deed is dated May 15,
                    1820, and shows that those who had brought into being a town here on the banks of the river were:
                    Frederick Sholts, Caleb Fellows, John Meriam, John M. Prentiss, Gordon Newell, Thomas G. Prentiss,
                    Wm. Gardiner and Jesse Shelmire. Upon the division of lots being made between the partners each
                    proceeded to sell to those who had been attracted to the new town. The records in the
                    recorder's office indicate that there was a vast amount of dealing in town lots and that
                    people came from all parts of the Bast to cast their future lot with the Proprietors of the Town of
                    Hindostan.
            Hindostan was at this time in the full vigor and growth of a lusty young frontier town. The mills and
                    business houses were far in advance of anything in Southern Indiana outside 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        New Albany
                    . There were other towns in existence. Vallonia was a trading post; Brownstown had been
                    laid out in the spring of 1815; Orleans and Paoli had been established as towns in 1816; Palestine
                    was the county seat of 
                        Lawrence county
                    , having been laid out in 1817. Hindostan was in touch with them all but it was
                    outgrowing them all. No internal improvements, such as canals or railroads were yet in existence and
                    the choice of Frederick Sholts and his associates in selecting the falls of the river here as the
                    location for their future city seemed to be a most wise one.
            But about 1826 or 1827, the exact date is unknown, the hand of fate closed down on the thriving city.
                    The street echoed to the wail of Eachel weeping for her children. The death angel stalked abroad.
                    The cemetery, on yonder hillside, grew faster than the 
                  
                     2Located on the B. and O. railroad east of Shoals.–Editor.
               
                     town, here in the valley. The time was a terrible one. There
                    was no resident physician, hence we have no positive account as to the character of the malady which
                    swept from the face of the earth the town of Hindostan. We do know, from tradition, and from
                    fragmentary records which can be pieced and interwoven together, that the toll of death was heavy.
                    It is said that here were more dead than living within the bounds of the town at times. And the
                    forefathers of the town were gathered to their fathers and all slept together in the bosom of Mother
                    Earth.
            The situation became so extreme that relief was sought at the hands of the Legislature and in 1828 an
                    act was passed authorizing the removal of the seat of Justice of 
                        Martin county
                     from Hindostan. This act was rushed through the session in its early days and was
                    approved January 24, 1828 Cit being one of the very first laws enacted.
            At that time 
                        Mt. Pleasant
                     was showing some improvement. As its name indicates it was situated on the summit of
                    one of the river hills, Hindostan was in the valley. The fell disease which was decimating Hindostan
                    was passing 
                        Mt. Pleasant
                     by unscathed. The general awakening which was occiiring over the entire frontier had
                    reached 
                        Mt. Pleasant
                    . There was a carding machine there, operated by Whitfield Force and there was also a
                    cotton gin. For in that early day the citizens of this country wore not only homegrown and home-made
                    woolen and flax garments but were also clad in cotton clothing the cotton for which was raised on
                    these hillsides. On March 14, 1828, came the beginning of the final scene for Hindostan. On that day
                    at a called session of the board of commissioners William Hoggat, Simon Morgan, John Murphy, and
                    Friend Spears, commissioners chosen by the Legislature to relocate the county seat of 
                        Martin county
                    , reported that they had determined to locate it at 
                        Mt. Pleasant
                    . On the 7th of July 1828, the commissioners, still meeting at 
                        Hindostan
                    , ordered the clerk and treasurer to remove their offices at once to 
                        Mt. Pleasant
                    . On September 1, 1828, the commissioners met for their first session at 
                        Mt. Pleasant
                     and the sun had set for Hindostan.
            Thus was the town builded, thus did it flourish, and thus did an unkind fate cut it off in the full
                    strength and prime of its youth. But it was not stricken from the memory of man. There yet lingers
                    round its ancient bounds the story of its existence. Its builders  have all, long since, left this mundane sphere and taken their places in that city eternal, that
                    celestial community which can never, never be effaced by death or pestilence. There, with the
                    mothers who left home and comfort in the East to penetrate the wilderness and help found a State,
                    they are resting. Their battle is over, their victory is won. It remains for us to do them honor and
                    ourselves good by seeking to live up to all that was best in them and in our day and age to show
                    equal energy and courage in perpetuating the government and country for our descendants on as noble
                    a plane as they who founded Hindostan left it on for those who followed them.3
            
            
               
                  3Hindostan was not the only town in Indiana visited by these epidemics. A
                        similar story comes down concerning Rising Sun, 
                     Madison, New Albany, Vincennes, Salem,
                                Indianapolis
                   and many others. Palestine
                        the county seat of 
                            Lawrence county
                         suffered the same fate as Hindostan.– Editor.
               
            
         
         
         
            Suggestions for Using the Indiana High School Text Books in History
            By Oscar H. Williams, A.M. School of Education, Indiana University.
            The recent Indiana textbook law imposed a serious task upon the State Board of Education, in
                    requiring that body to adopt uniform text books for secondary schools. Experience with uniform
                    textbooks in the elementary schools of the State had demonstrated the grave difficulty in fitting a
                    single textbook to the widely varying needs of different types of school communities. It was with
                    some misgivings that educational leaders faced the problem of adapting single texts to the high
                    schools. The State Board did credit to its own judgement by calling into its counsel for the eight
                    principal subjects, a series of advisory committees composed of experienced high school and college
                    teachers. To the teachers on these committees, individually and collectively, fell the task of
                    examining in detail the books submitted by the publishers. Their recommendations, made jointly and
                    severally, formed the basis of selection and adoption by the Board. To the credit of the State Board
                    be it said that the reports of the committees and teachers were followed consistently throughout.
            In the case of the advisory committee on History and Civics, it went a step beyond its instructions
                    and indicated first preference in every field. This was done because the committee felt there was an
                    appreciable difference among even the "first three" books which it had been
                    requested to name. With a single exception these books were accepted by the Board. Thus the real
                    responsibility for selecting these books rests chiefly with the committee of seven teachers of
                    history.
            It is the purpose of the writer to characterize, in a concise and helpful way, the books in History
                    now in use in all of the high schools of the State, and to point out ways of using them to best
                    advantage.
            
            I THE ANCIENT WORLD
            Hutton Webster's Ancient History came to the committee fresh from the
                    press. It had strong and attractive competitors, some of them tried and tested by use in many
                    Indiana high schools. But this book presented features so striking and original as to find favor at
                    once. Its selection followed as a matter of course, though some criticism was heard of the choice of
                    an untried book. Use and experience have, we think, fully demonstrated the wisdom of. the choice.
            Among the distinctive and original qualities of this book is its mode of treating the Ancient World
                    as an essential unity. Its method of handling the Oriental background is a case in point. In a
                    conscise political outline, a well-arranged chapter marshals in review the successive empires of the
                    East. Then comes a full rich chapter giving an admirable survey of the common characteristics of the
                    civilization of the East. Where important, distinguishing features peculiar to each people of the
                    Oriental World are touched upon, but the traits and characteristics common to them all are given
                    greatest stress. Thus the traditional plan of treating separately the civilization of each nation is
                    here departed from and a far less confused understanding of Oriental life is the result. A clear and
                    unified impression of Oriental beginnings of civilized life is the net return to the student.
            In similar fashion, the classical peoples of antiquity are dealt with, not as wholly separate and
                    distinct nations, but as two aspects of one civilization. In the first place, the geography of
                    Europe and of the Mediterranean World is treated as a unit. The lands of 
                        Italy
                     and 
                        Greece
                     find proper setting in the larger whole. Then the political narrative of the Greeks and
                    the Romans, though carried separately until 146 B. C, is properly merged after that date. But most
                    striking is the treatment of the private antiquities and the art of both Greeks and Romans in the
                    last two chapters. Side by side are set forth the essential features of the life and culture of the
                    two peoples. This mode of dealing with the subject makes possible those fruitful comparisons and
                    parallels wilieh render history significant and illuminating. It also avoids useless repetition of
                    common characteristics and qualities, leaves a clear understanding of what the Ancient World
                    essentially was, and gives a substantial foundation for a study of the life today.
            
            An interesting introductory chapter, on "The Ages Before History," sets out the
                    primitive beginnings of human culture. Here the children get a first glimpse of their original
                    forbears and discover the first human gropings for light and progress. The study of this subject
                    gives something of a sense of the long road which the race has travelled. Interest in the history of
                    the race is here first kindled in the children. The subject should be made as vivid and pictorial as
                    possible. Pictures, objects, reading selected passages from scientific works are valuable
                    stimulants. A chapter read from Jack London's Before Adam will lend
                    dramatic effect and heighten interest.
            In presenting the peoples of the Bast, only the outstanding features of their life and civilization
                    should receive attention. To dwell long upon shadowy characters is unprofitable. The succession of
                    empires, the approximate time of each, a brief view of their interrelations, is sufficient. But the
                    cultural elements should be studied in some detail.
            In like manner, a clear outline of the political narrative of 
                        Greece
                     and 
                        Rome
                     is essential, but the features of their life and culture, their contributions to
                    civilization, what each achieved for humanity, are more important. 
                        Greece
                     in her best days, 
                        Athens
                     in the time of Pericles, has much to teach later ages in art and philosophy, in an
                    efficient democracy, and in her failure at Empire. 
                        Rome
                     in her might and majesty, the imperial regime in the first two centuries, also have
                    much to tell later ages of administration of empire, of problems of defense, of assimilation of
                    alien peoples. It is the pages which dwell upon these aspects that deserve intensive study. Others
                    may be passed by lightly.
            A word as to the character and use of the teaching "aids." Classified reference
                    lists, at the head of each chapter, point the way to standard supplementary works and illustrative
                    literature. Teachers will find reliable and generally serviceable books cited. They will do well to
                    build up the departmental or school library in accordance with these lists. Where but one copy of a
                    reference book can be supplied, such book will serve for individual reading and special report. The
                    "Studies" following each chapter provide stimulating exercises carrying the pupils
                    further into the subject than the matter of the text. They may serve as a stimulus to the
                    supplementary reading. The index and pronouncing vocabulary is a  valuable adjunct. Its constant use in a field where difficult names and "alien
                    terms" abound will be abvious. Pupils should be habituated in its use by practice and
                    exercise. The numerous pictures are real sources and should in many cases receive detailed study.
                    Colored maps for reference, maps in black and white for portraying simple ideas, deserve careful
                    study in connection with the text. Chapter divisions will serve to determine lesson units.
            On the whole teachers of history in the high schools are fortunate to have so serviceable a book for
                    beginners.
            II EUROPEAN HISTORY
            Professor Harding's New Medieval and Modern History appeared just in time
                    to be considered by the advisory committee and the State Board. The earlier Essentials was already in quite common use in high schools of the State. In a twofold sense
                    the title of the book is appropriate. In the first place, the author tells us the book is something
                    more than a revision of the Essentials; "it is practically a new
                    work." Secondly, in its treatment of subject matter it is an exemplification of the
                    "new history." Emphasis is given, not to military and political details, but to
                    social, economic, and cultural phases.
            In conformity with the established tendency, stress has been placed on the factors which have gone
                    into the making of the Europe of to-day. One-half the text is devoted to Europe since 1648,
                    one-fourth since 1789, one-fourth since 1815. Perhaps the distinctive feature is the elaboration of
                    recent and contemporary movements in the Old World. It is brought down to the hour. The chapter
                    dealing with the Eastern Question reviews the preliminary articles signed by the powers at the 
                        London
                     Conference, May 30, 1913, and describes the fighting in the Balkans in July following.
                    The chapter on the world in revolution gives a survey of the worldwide movement for democracy in the
                    opening years of the twentieth century. Recent advances in Science and in Social Organization are
                    treated lucidly in the closing chapter.
            Medieval history is treated institutionally. Feudalism in theory and practice, is analyzed with
                    marked clearness. Even its complexities are made clear by diagram and map. The Medieval Churcn has
                    an admirable chapter. Two rich chapters are devoted to the  Life
                    and Culture of the Middle Ages. The political narrative, though appearing in the contest of Empire
                    and Papacy, is ever subordinate to institutional growth.
            The Modern period is dealt with after the usual manner of great international epochs. The Reformation
                    and resulting religious wars, the age of Louis XIV, the era of European rivalries, the French
                    Revolution and Napoleonic regime, all find their true perspective in the pages of this book. The
                    "wonderful nineteenth century" comes in for its share of attention. The Industrial
                    Revolution, with its transforming achievements in agriculture, transportation, and manufacturing,
                    and its spread throughout the civilized world, is handled in a most illuminating way. The story of
                    the growth of national spirit and organization in 
                        Germany
                     and 
                        Italy
                     of social and political reformation in 
                        Great Britain
                    , is interestingly told.
            The treatment throughout is pictorial and concrete. Where possible, types are employed to embody
                    general ideas and institutions. The medieval castle is exemplified by Arques and Chateau Gaillaird,
                    an earlier and later type. St. Gall illustrates graphically a medieval monastery. 
                        Paris
                     stands for the Universities of the Middle Ages. The style is usually interesting and
                    often full of color. Witness the account of the battle of Hastings: "Three horses were
                    killed under William, but he received no injury. Once the cry went forth, 'The Duke is
                    down!' and the Normans began to give way. But William tore off his helmet, that they might
                    better see his face, and cried, 'I live, and by God's grace shall have the
                    victory!," Passages like this lighten the weary pages of history for youthful minds.
            The aids and apparatus for teaching purposes are helpful and suggestive. Date lists appended to
                    chapters are valuable for reference. "Suggestive topics" on each chapter are
                    really stimulating problems. Search topics serve as a guide to the best reading. Directions for
                    general reading point out for teacher as well as pupils the standard works on each subject. A table
                    of the principal rulers and popes, arranged on the synchronistic plan, is of value for reference. A
                    carefully prepared index, with pronouncing vocabulary, adds to the usefulness of the book. Of much
                    help for teaching purposes isthe division of chapters, by means of large headings, into convenient
                    lesson units. For some schools, certain of these topics-may be eliminated, others elaborated by
                    collateral work.
            
            No feature of the book is more instructive than the pictures. Selected with diligent care, they
                    usually portray typical events and scenes, and represent characteristic sources. The frontispiece,
                    for example, showing Isabella of 
                        England
                     entering 
                        Paris
                     to visit her brother Charles IV, of 
                        France
                    , is at once full of life and color and represents the art of the medieval miniaturist.
                    The pictures should come in for their share of detailed study. Notes on the pictures, explaining the
                    subject and origin, facilitate their study as sources.
            This is a textbook of marked excellences. Its serviceability depends much upon the power of the
                    teacher to adapt the material to the students. Some of the topics should be touched lightly or
                    eliminated entirely, others may be extended and more fully elaborated. Above all, time should be
                    alloted for the rich and stimulating chapters at the close of the book.
            III AMERICAN HISTORY
            In considering the various books submitted in American History, the committee's choice fell
                    upon a textbook which for some years had found favor among teachers of history. The authors of James
                    and Sanford's American History belong to the Turner school of writers and
                    students of the history of the West. Perhaps the feature which found greatest favor and commended
                    the book to the committee was its marked emphasis upon the place of the "West in the
                    nation's development. The trend and significance of the westward movement are first touched
                    upon in the account of the preliminaries to the struggle between 
                        France
                     and 
                        England
                     for the interior valleys. It is again brought out in the chapter devoted to the
                    American Revolution, in the story of the founding of the mountain communities and their part in that
                    struggle. The Old Northwest is given adequate space and surely for Indiana schools no subject is of
                    greater importance. Again, the rise of the new West in the period immediately subsequent to the
                    "Second war for Independence" is amply treated.
            The European background is handled well at every point. Yet one wishes more justice had been done to
                    the English side of the Revolution. The imperial trade policy of the mother country during the
                    seventeenth and eighteenth centuries will have to be supplemented by considerable search beyond the
                    text. French colonization might well have been given at least equal notice with Spanish.
            
            Nearly two-thirds of the book is given to the national period. More than a fifth is devoted to the
                    national growth and expansion since the Civil War. Social and economic questions fill a large place
                    in these latter pages. Thus it fulfills the demand for greater attention to the origin of the great
                    problems of to-day. As in the European textbook the best portion of the book is found in these later
                    chapters and they should not be neglected.
            The helps for teachers are fairly good. More maps are needed. fewer fac-simile documents and prints
                    of contemporaneous maps might well have been employed. Topical references are good as far as they
                    go. The teacher looks in vain for copies of the Declaration of Independence, the Articles of
                    Confederation, and the Ordinance of 1787. The greatest lack is attention to the physical setting.
                    Geographical factors are almost entirely ignored. This important aspect must be introduced by the
                    teacher.
            On the whole, the Board has made wise choice in the selection of high school textbooks for the five
                    year period. "With such books the work should not only be of more uniform quality, but of
                    distinctly higher standard than ever before.
         
         
         
            Conscription and Draft in Indiana During the Civil War
            By Charles E. Canup DePauw University, 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana.
            To fill the depleted ranks of the northern armies, in the face of discouraging defeats and shaken
                    confidence in their leaders, seemed to be not only a problem, but a herculean task as well, with
                    which the administration was confronted during the period of the Civil war. It is the purpose in
                    this short article to deal with this problem, which briefly stated was the draft situation. However,
                    we will concern ourselves very little about conditions in the entire North, but will devote the time
                    and space to a consideration of the draft in Indiana and the influence it had upon the other loyal
                    States. But a brief survey of the various Conscription Acts of the National Government is necessary
                    for a clear and full understanding of the condition of affairs in our native State.
            Roughly speaking the work of conscription and draft may be divided into two parts. The first period
                    began with the Conscription Act of July 17, 1862 and extended from that time until the passage of
                    the Conscription Act of March 3, 1863. This may be designated as the period of the "State
                    Draft" regulated by the National Government. The second period began with the passage of
                    this latter act and covered the remainder of the time occupied by active operations in the field.
                    This may be called the period of the "National Draft."
            The Act of July 17, 1862 authorized the President to specify the period for which the service of
                    drafted men was to be required. This service was not to exceed nine months. Moreover it provided
                    that if there were any defects in the existing laws or in the execution of them which hampered the
                    work of enrolling and otherwise putting this act into execution, the president was authorized to
                    make all necessary rules and regulations regarding such. The enrolment of the militia was, in all
                    cases, to include all able-bodied male citizens of the Union between the ages of eighteen and
                    forty-five and was to be apportioned among the states according to their representative
                        population.1
            
            
               
                  1
                        Official War Records; Series III, Vol. II, p. 280.
            
            
            It may be observed that the above act specified that only "able-bodied male
                    citizens" were to be included in the enrolment. Naturally we may infer that there were a
                    number of legitimate excuses by which a man might be exempted. Such was the case. The rules and
                    regulations for the exemption of those physically unfit were as follows:–
            1. "Loss or imperfect vision of the right eye. 2. Loss of all the front teeth and enough of
                    the molars to render mastication imperfect. 3. Large or frequent attacks of hemorrhoids; or chronic
                    diarrhea. 4. Deformities which impair free motion of the limbs. 5. Loss of more than one finger of
                    the right or more than two fingers of the left hand. 6. Large varicose veins above the knee. 7.
                    Large or irreducible hernia. 8. All organic or functional diseases causing marked
                    debility–heart disease, or organic diseases of the lungs."2
            
            Besides the above legally adopted excuses there were of course others which, although not provided
                    for by law, grew out of the arising complications and the necessities of the hour. These were
                    provided for by the direct orders of Secretary of War, Stanton. The Governor, the judges of the
                    various courts, such men as were absolutely necessary to carry on the governmental affairs within
                    the State, drafting officers, telegraph operators, skilled workmen in gun factories, engineers and
                    firemen on the railroads, and ministers of the Gospel in active charge of parishes were all exempt
                    from military duty.3 This of coure does not mean that none of the above exempted
                    persons ever went to the front. No statistics are available on this point but it is very probable
                    that quite a number from sheer force of patriotism responded to the call of their native State.
            The first step requisite to drafting was the enrolment of all of the men in the State between the
                    specified ages. This was provided for by the July Act and a plan of procedure was prepared by the
                    secretary of war. Upon the approval of the war department this plan was modified by Governor Morton
                    to meet the existing conditions within the State and the enrolment was subsequently made under the
                    adopted plan which was as follows.
            In the first place it provided for the appointment of a commissioner in each county, who was in turn
                    required to appoint a 
                  
                     2
                            Western Christian Advocate, Sept. 8, 1862; p. 281.
                  
                     3
                            Official War Records; Series III, Vol. II, p. 512.
               
                     deputy in each township. The deputies were to take up the work
                    of enrolment while the commissioners were to supervise. Secondly, two lists of names were to be made
                    in each township; one for such persons as were actually engaged in the United. State's
                    service and the other for all resident male citizens between the prescribed ages. Third when
                    completed these lists were to be returned on a fixed day to the commissioner of the county who then
                    appointed a time when he and his deputies were to sit as a board and hear and determine all excuses.
                    Notice of this day was then to be given and all persons desiring to be exempted were asked to
                    present their names and excuses before the board convened. When all the exemptions had been marked
                    off the lists were ready for the draft. Upon the completion of these lists, the commissioners of the
                    several counties were required to send copies of them to the general commissioner at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . These copies enabled him to determine the quota of men required from each township
                    preparatory to ordering the draft. 4
            
            Soon after the passage of the July Act the work of enrolment began. It passed off for the most part
                    satisfactorily and without any great trouble. There were, however, some difficulties encountered
                    which gave rise to unavoidable imperfections, but these defects could not at the time be easily
                    remedied and it gave reasonable satisfaction. After the enrolment had been completed it was found
                    that the total militia force of the State was two hundred and nine thousand two hundred sixteen.5 This did not, however, include ninety-three thousand forty-one volunteers
                    already in the service. Of the two hundred nine thousand two hundred sixteen enrolled, thirty-six
                    thousand thirty-eight were exempted from military duty by the various causes mentioned above. This
                    left in all a total of one hundred seventy-three thousand one hundred seventy-eight men subject to
                    the draft and upon which the quotas of the State were based during this period.6
            
            The manner and method of drafting is of unusual interest and it is perhaps advisable that something
                    of this should be given here in order that the reader may get an idea of the magnitude of the
                    undertaking which at this time was being conducted in almost every 
                  
                     4 Report of the Adjutant General of Indiana–W. H. H.
                            Terrell, Vol. I, pp. 41-42. This will hereafter he referred to as Terrell's Meports.
                  
                  
                     5
                            Terrell's Meports; Vol. I, Document 28, p. 188.
                  
                     6
                            Terrell's Reports; Vol. I, Document 28, p. 188.
               
                     State of the Union. Nevertheless it must not be inferred from
                    the previous statement that all of the loyal States were subject to the draft of 1862, since only
                    these States in arrears on their quotas exercised the use of the draft. Those which had filled them
                    or had a surplus were exempt.
            The commissioner for the county supervised the work of drafting in each of the several townships
                    under his jurisdiction. The names of all persons who were liable to the draft in each township,
                    respectively, were written on separate ballots. These ballots were carefully folded and placed in a
                    wheel or box, from which a blindfolded person drew a number of ballots equal to the quota due from
                    the township where the draft was being held. A notice was then served by the marshall upon the men
                    whose names had been drawn, requiring them to report at the county seat within the next five days.
                    From here transportation was furnished them to the general rendezvous, Camp Sullivan, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Upon their arrival at the rendezvous any of them who wished to furnish a substitute
                    were permitted to do so. The authorities were finally prevailed upon to extend the time for
                    presenting substitutes to October 31. These substitutes were in all respects placed on the same
                    footing with the drafted men.7
            
            Probably by this time the reader is wondering whether it was absolutely necessary to draft soldiers
                    in Indiana as early as 1862. We now know that it was not necessary, but owTing
                    to the inaccurate accounts of the troops furnished up to that time, it was then thought that the
                    State was behind on her quotas. Since, however, it has been clearly demonstrated that the State had
                    more than filled all of her quotas. Let us see then why Indiana was subject to this draft.
            Under the call of July 18, 1862 for three hundred thousand men the quota for Indiana was twenty-one
                    thousand two hundred fifty, and again under the call of August 4 for three hundred thousand militia,
                    Indiana's quota was twenty-one thousand two hundred fifty, making in all a total of
                    forty-two thousand five hundred men due from the State under these two calls. By Sept. 20 both of
                    these quotas had been filled by volunteers except for six thousand sixty. At this time volunteering
                    seemed to lag somewhat, but by Oct., 6, the day set for drafting, this number had been further
                    reduced to three thousand three. On the other hand subsequent adjustments 
                  
                     7
                            Terrell's Reports; Vol. I, p. 43.
               
                     showed that the total number of troops actually due from
                    Indiana prior to August 4 was sixty-four thousand seven hundred sixty-five, and that the number of
                    troops furnished up to that time amounted to ninety-four thousand twenty-three. Thus it may be seen
                    that the State had more than filled her quota at that time, having to her credit a surplus of twrenty-nine thousand two hundred fifty-eight. As previously stated the quota
                    under the call of August 4 was twenty-one thousand two hundred fifty. Hence deducting the quota of
                        twTenty-one thousand two hundred jifty from the surplus twenty-nine thousand
                    two hundred fifty-eight, we have a remainder of eight thousand eight, the amount which Indiana was
                    really ahead on her quota. Yet at that time, the enrollment of the militia and an examination of the
                    best available data of troops previously furnished showed that out of the nine hundred sixty-nine
                    townships in the State, three hundred thirty-four were actually in arrears on their quotas, while
                    six hundred thirty-five were in excess of theirs or at least had filled them. And although the State
                    was not indebted to the government for so much as a single man, yet three hundred and thirty-four of
                    the townships were, and in order to equalize the burden it was thought that it was altogether
                    fitting and proper that a draft should be held.8
            
            Accordingly on October 6, 1862, the draft was held. Three thousand three men were actually drafted.
                    Two thousand one hundred eighty-three reported at the general rendezvous, Camp Sullivan, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .9 Upon their arrival, one thousand four hundred forty-one of this
                    number enlisted voluntarily into old three year regiments or companies for twelve months service.
                    Seven hundred forty-two were assigned as drafted men as follows: one company to the Fifty-seventh
                    regiment of infantry; one company to the Eighty-third regiment of infantry; two companies to the
                    First regiment of cavalry and about thirty men to the Ninety-ninth regiment of infantry.10 Three hundred ninety-six men were discharged for general disability and for
                    the various causes enumerated above, while four hundred twenty-four failed to report at the
                    rendezvous and were classed as deserters.11
            
            The second period, or the period of the National Draft, begins. 
                  
                     8
                            Terrell's Reports; Vol. I, p. 40-41.
                  
                     9
                            Terrell's Reports; Vol. I, Document 28, p. 190.
                  
                     10
                            Terrell's Report; Vol. I, p. 44.
                  
                     11
                            Terrell's Reports; Vol. I, Document 28, p. 190.
               
                     with the passage of the Conscription Act of March 3, 1863. In
                    this some changes were made causing it to differ somewhat from the Act of July 17, 1862, the most
                    notable of which was that it was made more thorough and more far reaching than the previous act had
                    been. It also differed from the first in that it was nation-wide while the other was conducted by
                    the different States. In order to show to a better advantage how it differed from the old, the main
                    provisions of the new law will be given here.
            The latter conscription act was made to include all able-bodied men of the Union as well as persons
                    of foreign birth who had signified their intentions of becoming citizens of the 
                        United States
                    . It also included all persons discharged from the service who had not served at least
                    two years during the existing war.12 By the same provision of this law all men
                    between the ages of twenty-one and forty-five were included except such as were later exempted. This
                    act also divided the reserve forces into two classes. The first class included all of the enrolled
                    men between the ages of twenty-one and thirty-five, and thirty-five and forty-five. The second class
                    included all others liable to military duty.13 This shows a very slight change
                    from the first law. But besides this the former act made no provision for exemptions except as to
                    the physical disability, while under the new law those who might be exempted were designated in
                    section two and were as follows:
            Any persons physically or mentally unfit for service were to be exempted on a statement given by an
                    examining surgeon- These exemptions were for much the same defects as in 1862 with the exception
                    that the list of exempting complaints was cut to about one-half. It was now thought that with honest
                    surgeons an exemption for physical disability would be about twice as difficult to obtain.14 Moreover those exempted under the draft of 1862 were again liable to a
                    re-examination, so that many persons were drafted under the new law who would otherwise have escaped
                    under the old. The list of exemptions under section two also provided for the exemption of the
                    Vice-president of the 
                        United States
                    , the judges of the various courts of the 
                        United States
                    , the heads of the executive departments of the government, and the governors of the
                    several States. Another part of this section called for the exemption of 
                  
                     12
                            Western Christian Advocate, July 18,1864.
                  
                     13 M'Pherson, History of the Rebellion, pp.
                            115-116.
                  
                     14
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Banner, Dec. 3, 1863.
               
                     the only son, liable to military duty, of a widow dependent
                    upon his labor for support. The third provision stated that the only son of an aged or infirm parent
                    or parents, dependent upon his labor for support, was also to be exempted. Again where there were
                    two or more sons in such a case as mentioned above, the father, or if he was dead, the mother might
                    elect which son should be exempted. The fifth clause provided that the brother of children who
                    'were not twelve years of age, having neither father nor mother living, was to be exempted.
                    In the sixth place the father of motherless children under twelve years of age and dependent upon
                    his labor for support need not go to the war. The seventh and last clause of this section is a
                    follows; "where there are a father and sons in the same family and household and two of
                    them are in the military service of the 
                        United States
                     as non-commissioned officers, musicians, or privates, the residue of such families and
                    household not exceeding two shall be exempt."15
            
            The exemption of the skilled workmen in gun factories, firemen and engineers, telegraph operators and
                    such like, was contiued much the same as in 1862.
            Another class of exemptions may also be included in the list, namely the drafted men who sent
                    substitutes in their places. During the first year after the passage of this act a drafted man was
                    allowed to furnish an acceptable substitute or pay three hundred dollars instead of going to the
                    front. This discharged him from further liability under that draft. The three hundred dollars wTas known as "commutation" money and wras
                    used for the maintenance of the armies as well as for "bounty" money to aid in
                    volunteering But in a very short time this commutation clause had raised a storm of protest from a
                    great many people of nearly all loyal States. They argued that a rich man who might happen to be
                    drafted would be able to discharge his obligation to the government by the payment of three hundred
                    dollars while a poor man who was drafted would have to go to war because he did not have the three
                    hundred dollars with which to exempt himself. This was virtually class legislation, and put a
                    premium on a man's wealth. However, after much controversy between the governors of the
                    different States and the executive, and storms of disapproval from the loyal people this clause was
                    finally repealed, except for conscientious 
                  
                     15
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Banner, March 5, 1863.
               
                     exempts, on July 4, 1864. Previous to this time no draft under
                    this Conscription Act had been held in Indiana and consequently Indiana had not been as much
                    concerned with this clause as a few of the other States. Yet Governor Morton was one of the men wTho strongly and justly opposed it.16
            
            But before this time on February 24, 1864, Congress had passed an amendment to the Act of March 3,
                    1863, which provided for the equalization of the draft by calculating the quota for each district or
                    precinct and then counting the number of men previously furnished by that locality. Under this
                    amendment any person enrolled on the lists might furnish an acceptable substitute, who was not
                    liable to the draft, and was not at the time in the military or naval service of the 
                        United States
                    . Such a person so furnishing a substitute was exempted from the draft during the
                    allotted time for which his substitute was not held accountable to the draft. This time was not to
                    exceed the period for which the substitute had been accepte'd. In case the substitute was
                    found to be liable to the draft, the name of the person furnishing him was again placed on the roll
                    and he was subject to the draft in future calls, but not until the present enrollment had been
                        exhausted.17
            
            Another clause of this amendment provided that members of religious denominations who had made oath
                    or affirmation that they were conscientiously opposed to the bearing of arms, and who were
                    prohibited from doing so by the practices and articles of faith of their religious denomination,
                    when drafted, were to be considered as non-combatants, and assigned to duty in hospitals, or to the
                    care of freedmen, or were to pay three hundred dollars for the benefit of the sick and wounded
                    soldiers. Yet it was necessary that they give proof that their deportment had been consistent with
                    their faith.18
            
            The new system of enrollment differed somewhat from the old. Section five of the new enrolment law
                    provided that the secretary of war was to dismiss from the service all minors under the age of
                    eighteen. From this time any officer of the 
                        United States
                     who enlisted or mustered into service any person under the age of sixteen with or
                    without consent of his parents or guardians was to be dismissed from the service, with the
                    forfeiture of all pay and allowances 
                  
                     16
                            Terrell's Reports; Vol. I, pp. 50-53.
                  
                     17 M'Pherson, History of the Rebellion, p.
                            116.
                  
                     18 M'Pherson, History of the
                            Rebellion,?-116.
               
                     and was subject to such further punishment as the court martial
                    might decide. Moreover such persons so enlisted were to be unconditionally released upon the
                    repayment of the "bounty" received.
            Furthermore this law authorized the provost-marshalls, under the direction of the
                    provost-marshall-general to make a draft in each district for one hundred per cent above the number
                    required to fill the quota of such district. That is, if the quota for one township happened to be
                    fifty then the supervising commissioner was authorized and expected to draft for one hundred.
            "Whereas before, transportation expenses had been paid drafted men only from their county
                    seat to the general rendezvous, it was now provided that the traveling expenses of the drafted men
                    should be allowed from their home to the general rendezvous.19 Besides this a
                    new bureau was established under the charge of provost-marshall-general. Provost-marshalls were
                    appointed in each congressional district of the State to assist him. An acting assistant
                    provost-marshall-general was also appointed to supervise the work in each State.
            To facilitate the enrollment, a "Board of Enrollment" was established in each
                    district. This board consisted of the district provost-marshall as the presiding officer, a
                    commissioner, and a surgeon who had been appointed by the President of the 
                        United States
                    . After the board had been established it received directions to divide the districts
                    into sub-districts and appoint every two years an enrolling officer for each.
            These Boards of Enrollment had been fully organized by May 1863 and the districts as once sub-divided
                    for the purpose of enrollment. Towns, townships and wards were generally adopted as the most
                    convenient sub-divisions. An enrolling officer was then appointed and sworn in to perform his duty.
                    Great care was taken to appoint competent and honest men- Here some difficulty was experienced on
                    account of the great number of disloyal men in the State, but the list was soon complete and the
                    work of enrollment began in earnest about May 25, 1863.20
            
            The work of enrollment was finished in ample time to begin the draft which was not held until about a
                    year later. These enrollment lists were continually being revised by the enrolling 
                  
                     19
                            Western Christian Advocate, July 13,1864.
                  
                     20
                            Terrell's Reports; Vol. I, p. 46.
               
                     officers in each sub-district. This was done because they were
                    the basis for determining the proportion of troops to be supplied by-each sub-district and it was
                    desired that the greatest accuracy should be maintained in order that no injustice should be
                    practiced on any locality. At first, these enrollment lists were more or less defective but by the
                    continual corrections made in accordance with the directions from the provost-marshal-general, they
                    soon became as nearly perfect as was possible under the system.
            The revised lists for December 19, 1864, showed a reserve strength for the State of one hundred
                    fifty-eight thousand three hundred forty-eight men.21 This of course is much
                    less than under the enrollments of 1862 due to the great numbers who had volunteered and gone to the
                    front during that period.
            After the draft of 1862 it was not again necessary to draft from this State until after the call of
                    July 18, 1864, for five hundred thousand men. All of the calls during that time had been filled with
                    volunteers. Under the latter call Indiana's quota was thirty-five thousand seven hundred
                    thirty-two, being somewhat larger than usual.22 Volunteers were slow in coming
                    in and it seemed that the available men were all holding back, either from lack of interest, or
                    weariness of the war which had now dragged into years. Hence it was found necessary to again make
                    use of the draft. Accordingly this was done during the months of September and October and passed
                    off tolerably quiet. A total of thirty-three thousand nine hundred sixty-eight men were drawn in
                    this draft, all of whom were exempted for various reasons, but twelve thousand four hundred seventy-four. Of these four thousand four hundred sixty-six sent substitutes,
                    ninety-seven deserted before joining the ranks and seven thousand two hundred eighty-eight responded
                    to the summons of their State as drafted men and were sent to the front. Besides this six hundred
                    twenty-three who were conscientiously opposed to war paid commutation and were released from
                        duty.23
            
            Again on the nineteenth of December 1864 another call was made for three hundred thousand men. This
                    time the quota for the State was twenty-two thousand five hundred eighty-two. It was principally
                    filled by volunteers, yet a few Were lacking and it was found necessary to make use of the draft a
                    third time. This was 
                  
                     21
                            Terrell's Reports; Vol. I, Document 40, p. 245.
                  
                     22
                            Terrell's Reports; Vol. I, Document 33, p. 215.
                  
                     23
                            Terrell's Reportt; Vol. I, Document 33, p. 215.
               
                     done during the month of March 1865. The total number of men
                    drawn at this time was seven thousand one hundred ninety. Two thousand four hundred twenty-four of
                    this number were retained. One thousand three hundred fifty-one were sent as drafted men; seven
                    hundred thirty-one sent substitutes, and three hundred forty-two paid commutation. The remainder
                    were exempted partly because the end of the war was so near, and partly because of disability and
                    other reasons.24
            
            Glancing over the entire situation we find that the total num-ben of men drawn under these three
                    drafts was forty-four thousand one hundred sixty-one. Twenty thousand four hundred twenty-two came
                    under the exemption clauses and consequently remained at home. Six thousand six hundred fifty-eight
                    failed to report at the rendezvous and were afterwards classed as deserters; five thousand one
                    hundred ninety-seven sent substitutes; ninety-seven deserted at the time of the draft, and out of
                    the entire number ten thousand eight hundred twenty-two were sent to the front as drafted men. Out
                    of this large number of persons drawn only nine hundred sixty-five made use of the commutation
                    clause during the entire war. This was the smallest number who sought to avoid their obligation to
                    the government by this method of any State in the Union, save one.
            It may be of interest to know something of the relative number of Indiana's troops which
                    were drafted as compared with the number of volunteers. In all Indiana furnished two hundred eight
                    thousand three hundred forty-eight men.25 This gives us then a total of about
                    eight and one-half per cent of all of Indiana's troops being sent as drafted men. Moreover
                    during the war there was a total of ten thousand eight hundred forty-six deserters from the Indiana
                        ranks.26 Of this number only two thousand four hundred forty-nine were from
                    the ranks of the drafted men. On close inspection it will be seen that but a little more than five
                    per cent of all of Indiana's volunteers deserted, while about thirteen and one-half per
                    cent of the drafted men deserted. On the other hand slightly more than seventy-nine per cent of
                    Indiana's deserters came from the ranks of the volunteers and only about twenty-one per
                    cent came from the drafted men. This seems to be exactly opposite in 
                  
                     24
                            Terrell's Reports; Vol. I, Document 36, p. 238.
                  
                     25
                            Terrell's Reports; Vol. 1, Document 1, p. 5.
                  
                     26
                            Terrell's Reports; Vol. I, Document 1, p. 5.
               
                     nature, but owing to the much greater number of volunteers in
                    the army, naturally more deserters would come from that source.
            Perhaps the most serious resistance was encountered during the process of the draft of 1862. This
                    took place in 
                        Blackford county
                    .27 In that county a few lawless men destroyed the draft box and by
                    threats and violence prevented the officers from proceeding with the draft on the day appointed. It
                    was, however, contiued on the third day after.28 There were also threats and
                    other misdemeanors in 
                        Fountain county
                    .
            During 1863 there was considerable opposition to the enrollment. In some sections of the country
                    where the Knights of the Golden Circle (Sons of Liberty, etc.,) Butternuts and Copperheads were
                    numerous considerable opposition was experienced. Outrages were committed in many parts of the State
                    with impunity. Deserters banded together with other disloyal citizens and plundered and stole
                    whenever and wherever the opportunity presented itself. In a few counties the enrolling officers
                    were actually shot and killed. These instances, however, were rare. But for the most part the
                    opposition was in the nature of threats and little violence was committed. In some places bands of
                    disloyal men rode about the country capturing or stealing the enrolling books and threatening the
                    lives of the enrolling officers. Following is a copy of a letter received by Mr. Craig, enrolling
                    officer in 
                        Monroe
                     township, 
                        Putnam county
                    :
            
                    
                  
                     
                        We the undersigned will give you our advice for your own good and if you
                                    don't lay aside the enrolling, your life will be taken tomorrow night, and
                                    you had better take our advice as friends; we don't expect to interrupt
                                    you; but we have heard men with vengeance against you say that you had better stay
                                    at home, and you had better take our advice and stay at home.
                        
                           From
                                    YOUR FRIEND.29
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            He, however, was not intimidated by the threat and continued the enrolling on the next day. This is
                    judged to be a fair example of the most of the disturbances which occured all over the State and
                    especially in the southern portion where the Knights of the Golden Circle seemed strongest.
            
               
                  27
                        Terrell's Reports; Vol.1, p. 282.
               
                  28
                        Terrell's Reports; Vol. 1, p. 44.
               
                  29
                        
                            Greencastle
                        
                        Banner, June 18,1863.
            
            
            Later in 1864 there was quite an uprising in 
                        Orange
                     and 
                        Crawford
                     counties. A band of five hundred men assembled to resist the draft. They armed
                    themselves and took horses, arms and money from the citizens and home guards." In parts of
                    these counties- dis loyal people assembled by the hundreds, defied the laws, fired upon and killed
                    some enrolling officers, wounded law-abiding citi zens, and robbed them of their property with the
                    avowed determina tion of aiding the rebellion."30 This, however, did
                    not prove to be quite as serious as at first reported-Taken as a whole the matter of
                    Indiana's conduct during the war in reference to the draft can hardly be praised too
                    highly. From the above article it can be seen that she filled nearly all of her calls promptly and
                    cheerfully. One very noticeable feature is that there were no deficiencies left over to be filled by
                    subsequent calls. ID nearly all cases up to near the end of the war her excess of troops had
                    amounted to from two thousand to thirty thousand men.31 This fact alone clearly
                    pictures the splendid patriotism and public spirit of Indiana's citizens, the vigor and
                    energy of her authorities, and the promptness with which each demand upon the State was met Many
                    times the quotas were deemed unjust, yet there was no lagging, no hesitancy and scarcely any
                    trouble. The State was always ready to send her share of men and it is a gratification to be able to
                    say that she relied solely upon her own citizens to fill her obligations to the national government.
                    The following tribute was merited:
            Often when it seemed that the government, by hesitation, inaction, and delay, was on the point of
                    sacrificing, or allowing to be sacrificed, the objects of the war by permitting great advantages to
                    be seized by the rebels, the-Governor took grave and weighty responsibilities upon himself,
                    determined that no fault of his, or of his State should add to the chance of disaster and defeat.
                    Believing in the correctness of his own views with regard to tht-perils of the situaton, despite the
                    hampering and objections that continuall trammeled him, he often raised troops in advance of any
                    call, and on many occasions made offers, when none were demanded, and though his efforts-and his
                    offers were sometimes severely criticized, in no single instance did he take a backward step. The
                    troops were always needed and were always acceptable, but the foresight that provided them, and the
                    pressure that attempted to secure heir acceptance, did not always receive the appreciation they
                    deserved until the contingencies or misfortunes they were intended to anticipate, or prevent, had
                    actually transpired.32
            
            
               
                  30
                        Terrell's Reports; Vol. I, p. 287.
               
                  31
                        Terrell's Reports; Vol. I, p.49.
               
                  32
                        Terrell') Reports; Vol. I, p. 19.
            
            
            Yet bearing in mind all of the harsh words and the unkind criticisms of thoughtless and unfeeling
                    people, Governor Morton was to be congratulated on his heroic efforts and patriotic motives which
                    caused him to be one of the foremost officials in the service of the North during this trying
                    period.
            
               APPENDIX–TABLE SHOWING THE
                            RESULTS OF THE DRAFTS IN INDIANA
               
               
                   
                  Draft of October 6, 1862†
                  
                  Draft of September and October, 1864
                  Draft of March, 1865
                  Total
               
               
                  Number enrolled
                  173,178
                  *
                  158,348
                   
               
               
                  Quota due from the State
                  21,250
                  35,782
                  22,582
                  79 564
               
               
                  Volunteers under these calls
                  18,248
                  23,258
                  20,068
                  51 564
               
               
                  Number due from the State by the draft
                  3,003
                  12,474
                  2,424
                  17,901
               
               
                  Number drawn
                  3,003
                  33,968
                  7,190
                  44,161
               
               
                  Number exempted
                  396
                  16,107
                  3,919
                  20,422
               
               
                  Number who failed to report
                  424
                  5,387
                  847
                  6,658
               
               
                  Number who went as drafted men
                  2,183
                  7,288
                  1,351
                  10,822
               
               
                  Number who sent substitutes
                  ——
                  4,466
                  731
                  5,197
               
               
                  Number who paid communtation
                  ——
                  623
                  342
                  965
               
               
                  Number who deserted at time of the draft
                  —–
                  97
                  ——
                  97
               
               
                  Number who deserted after joining ranks
                  373
                  1,858
                  218
                  2,449
               
            
            
               
                  * Not completely revised.
               
                  † Provided for deficit only, to be drawn.
            
         
         
         
            Minor Notices
            THE INDIANAPOLIS JOURNAL FILES
            The files of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal running from 1825 to 1904, bound in 251 volumes, were recently loaned by
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star Publishing Company to the Indiana Historical Survey. They consti tuted one of
                    the best single sources on Indiana history to be had The Journal was founded in
                    1824 by John Douglass and Douglass Maguire. It had the longest continuous run under the same name of
                    any paper in the State. From about 1840 to its close in 1904 it was a daily. During the greater part
                    of that time it also published a weekly edition called the Indiana State Journal.
                    For a few years in the seventies it ran an evening edition, but this was at a financial loss.
            Among its noted editors were John Douglass, John Defrees, Berry Sulgrove, William R. Holloway,
                    William P. Fishback, John C. New, and Elijah Halford. It helped organize the Whig party and
                    officiated at its funeral; it was sponsor for the new Republican party and served it faithfully for
                    exactly a half century- It helped elect the elder Harrison and also his grandson to the presidency.
                    It saw 
                        Indianapolis
                     grow from a squatter's camp into a modern capital. It was a well established
                    paper when the first stage" coach came to town, was an old institution when the first
                    railroad reached it.
            UNDERGROUND RAILROAD IN DECATUR COUNTY
            The 
                        Greensburg
                    
                    Daily News, February 3, to February 17 inclusive, printed a series of articles on
                    the above topic. It is not generally known that citizens of 
                        Decatur county
                     were so active in the Abolition cause. The author of the articles, Mr. N. T. Rogers,
                    has made a commendable search for this material and has woven it into a dramatic story. The number
                    of the fugitives evidently would run into the hundreds if all cases were recorded. The illustrations
                    by Smiley Fowler add a realistic touch to the story.
            One of the rescues described by Mr. Rogers resulted in a law suit in which George Ray of 
                        Kentucky
                     recovered damages to the  amount of
                    $1200 from Luther A. Donnell in the 
                        United States
                     Circuit Court at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The friends of the abolition cause joined in the payment of the fine.
            As usual the most aggravating element in the whole affair waa the professional slave catcher who
                    lived in the neighborhood. He would keep an eye out for the poor refugees and often in the guise of
                    a friend would conduct them into the hands of their pursuers. These brutes became kidnappers of free
                    negroes whenever occasion offered. The real prliminaries of the Civil war are to be found in these
                    unfortunate affairs. James E- Caskey is editor and publisher of the paper.
            CHARLES S. HERNLY
            Charles S. Hernly of 
                        Newcastle
                    , Indiana, died at his home in that city April 18. He was born September 23, 1856, in 
                        New Castle
                     and there spent his entire life. He was first a school teacher, then a lawyer. Politics
                    was amost a profession with him. He rose by regular steps through the precinct, city, and county
                    positions until in 1898 he became state chairman of the Republican party. In that year and again in
                    1900 he led the party to victory. He was also well known as a financier, having organized and
                    promoted the 
                  Indianapolis, New Castle
                and 
                        Toledo
                     traction line.
            JOANNA M. LANE
            The death of Mrs. Joanna M. Lane occurred at her home in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     April 6. She was the eldest child of Isaac C. Elston, a pioneer of the city of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . She was born September 28, 1826. Februaryll, 1845 she married Henry S. Lane. When her
                    husband started writh his regiment, the First Indiana, to the Mexican war the
                    following year, Mrs. Lane presented the regimental flag to the troops Mr. Lane was Colonel of the
                    regiment.
            Mrs. Lane accompanied her husband to the first Republican convention, over which he was called to
                    preside. She has attended every Republican convention since that time. At the National Republican
                    Convention at 
                        Chicago
                     in 1912 she was very much discouraged at the fierce factional fight and the final
                    disruption that took place.
            
            At the beginning of the Civil war she accompanied her husband, then a Senator, to Washington, where
                    she remained during the eventful period. The terrible scenes following the Battle of Bull Run when
                    the wounded were brought by wagon loads and distributed to the homes in that city were never
                    forgotten by her.
            Mrs. Lane was well acquainted with President Lincoln who often visited their home to talk over
                    political and military affairs. She was a sister to Mrs. Lew Wallace and accompanied the Wallaces to
                    Constantinople and from there visited the Holy Land as the special guest of the Sultan. An excellent
                    sketch of her life by Mary Hannah Krout was given in the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Journal April 10, 1914.
            BISHOP THOMAS BOWMAN
            On March 3rd. 1914 at 
                        Orange
                        New Jersey
                     occured the death of Bishop Thomas Bowman an ex-president of DePauw University, and at
                    the time of his death the senior Bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church. He was born near Berwick,
                    Pennsylvania, July 15, 1817, of well to do and educated parents, both of whom were staunch
                    Methodists, and active in spreading Methodism throughout the Sus-quehana
                    valley. The great grandmother and grandfather of Bishop Bowman were two of Bishop
                    Asbury's converts, and from this direct line there have come more than thirty ministers or
                    ministers' wives. When Thomas Bowman was fourteen years of age he was sent to Wilberham
                    Academy in 
                        Massachusetts
                    , and later to Cazenovia Seminary in 
                        New York
                     State. In 1835 he entered the junior class of Dickenson College at 
                        Carlisle
                    , Pennsylvania, where he graduated in 1837 at the head of his class, being chosen
                    valedictorian. At first he considered seriously going into the law, but through the advice of his
                    teachers at Dickenson College he finally decided to choose the ministry instead, and in 1839 he
                    joined the 
                        Baltimore
                     Conference of the Methodist Episcopal church. In 1840 he became a tutor in the grammar
                    school of Dickenson College, remaining there three years, when, because of his father's ill
                    health and because of a temporary break in his own, he was compelled to give up the work of teaching
                    for several years. In 1848 he became the principal of Dickenson Seminary at 
                        Williamsport
                    , Pennsylvania, where he carried on a very successful work, erecting buildings,
                    gathering students and shaping courses of instruction. For ten years he labored  at this important post, when in 1859 he was invited to become the
                    president of Indiana Asbury University, now DePauw, at 
                        Green-castle
                    , Indiana.
            While president of old Asbury he became a most influential and popular preacher in the central west
                    and was in constant demand for camp meetings, educational meetings, dedications and anniversaries of
                    various kinds. During these critical years he was a mighty moral and religious agent in the western
                    country, and when the Civil War came he did service for his country in many and various forms. In
                    1864 he served as chaplain of the 
                        United States
                     Senate, being on leave of absence from the college for that purpose. While in 
                        Washington
                    , he became a friend of Lincoln and did what he could to aid the President of the 
                        United States
                     to bear his heavy burden. He remained president of Asbury until 1872, and it was during
                    his administration that East college was erected, at the time of its erection one of the most
                    artistic and costly college buildings in this part of the country. In the year 1872 he was elected a
                    Bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church, with his residence at 
                        St. Louis
                    , where he lived until his retirement in 1896.
            After Dr. Bowman's election to the episcopacy he did not lose his interest in the college he
                    had served so long and so well. It was largely through his influence that Mr. W. C. DePauw was
                    persuaded to give so largely to old Asbury, and the latest catalogue of DePauw University has at the
                    head of its facutly the name of Bishop Thomas Bowman D.D., LL.D., President Emeritus.
            WM. W. SWEET.
            JOHN ADE
            While attending the Tenth District Republican Congressional Convention at 
                        Valparaiso
                    , April 28, John Ade was stricken with paralysis and died immediately. He was born near 
                        Cincinnati
                     85 years ago. In March 1853 he came to what is now 
                        Newton county
                     with his wife and oldest child in a lumber wagon. He soon helped to organize the new
                    county and later served as auditor. His later life was spent as a banker in company with G. W.
                    McCray. He was a working Republican having helped in the organization of the party in 1854. He was a
                    public-spirited citizen, well acquainted with all the public affairs of his county. This wide range
                    of knowledge of local affairs enabled him to write an excellent county history which he published
                    recently.
            
            EDWARD MOLLOY
            Edward Molloy, editor of The Laporte Herald and its predecessors since 1878, passed
                    away at 8:10 o'clock Mar. 18 at the Holy Family hospital, after an illness of a little over
                    five weeks. Edward Molloy was born in 
                        New York City
                    , March 20, 1843, so that had he lived two more days he would have been 71 years of age.
                    "When a lad he was brought to LaPorte county and until he left for the wrar he made his
                    home with Mr. and Mrs. Borden, in 
                        Hudson
                     township. He worked on the farm and also attended the township school, and also
                    attended the 
                        New Carlisle
                     Seminary, from which he graduated. When the Civil war broke out he enlisted and
                    immediately went to the front, being a member of Company K. 87th Indiana infantry. Enlisting as a
                    private he soon demonstrated his worth and was quickly promoted, so that before the war ended he had
                    become first lieutenant in his company and adjutant of the regiment. He participated in all the
                    important engagements in which his regiment took part, being twice wounded. He was with Sherman on
                    his famous march to the sea, and he was honorably mustered out of the service on June 11, 1865.
            Upon leaving the army Mr. Molloy returned to LaPorte county and then went to 
                        South Bend
                    , where he started the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Union. "While there he became acquainted with Emma Barrett, a wellknown
                    platform lecturer and temperance speaker, and their marriage soon followed. Mrs. Molloy assisted her
                    husband in the editing and publishing of the paper. From 
                        South Bend
                    , Mr. and Mrs. Molloy went to 
                        Elkhart
                    , where Mr. Molloy was editor of the 
                        Elkhart
                    
                    Observer. In the early 70's Mr. Molloy went to 
                        New York
                    , where he was connected with one of the newspapers, but May 1st, 1878, he returned to
                    LaPorte and became editor of the LaPorte Chronicle then owned by Captain Silas T.
                    Taylor. On February 1, 1880, The Chronicle was consolidated with The Herald, which had been purchased by Archibald Beal of C. G. Powell, the paper from that
                    time until 1888 being known as the Herald-Chronicle, the LaPorte Printing Co.
                    being the publisher. In 1880 the Chronicle was dropped and since that date it has
                    been published as The Herald. During all of this time Edward Molloy had been the
                    editor. He was an ardent and zealous Eepublican and a member of Patton post, No. 147, Grand Army of
                    the Republic, and for several terms he served as the commander. He belonged to Excelsior lodge, No.
                         41, F. and A. M., and LaPorte chapter, No. 280, Order of
                    Eastern Star. He was also a member of Halcyon council, Royal Arcanum, 
                        Michigan City
                    , and 
                        Maple City
                     court, Tribe of Ben Hur. His religious affiliation was with the Swedenborgian church.
            PATRICK H. McCORMICK
            The death of Patrick H. McCormick, occured at 
                        Danville
                    , Indiana, March 20, 1914. He was superintending the erection of the new 
                        Hendricks county
                     courthouse at the time. Mr. McCormick was a native of 
                        Ireland
                    , born near Limerick, county Clare, March 27, 1842. At the age of six he came to
                    America, settling at 
                        Nashville
                     where his parents lived the remainder of their lives. He became a mason by trade,
                    working for the Federal government on the 
                        Nashville
                     and Chattanooga railroad during the war.
            In 1867 he came to Indiana and made 
                        Columbus
                     his home. He became a general contractor and as such erected many public buildings in
                    Indiana and surrounding states. Among these are the Rose Polytechnic building, at least ten county
                    courthouses, the insane asylum buildings at 
                        Logansport
                     and 
                        Evansville
                    , the Indiana University Library building at 
                        Bloomington
                    , the Pennsylvania bridge over the Ohio river at 
                        Louisville
                    , the government locks at 
                        Nashville
                    .
            In 1880 he represented his county in the State General Assembly, and was reelected. In 1884 he was a
                    delegate to the Democratic National Convention. In 1888 he was a candidate for State Treasurer but
                    was defeated in the convention. He served his city as mayor, a number of terms. A good biography
                    appears in the 
                        Columbus
                    
                    Republican of March 20.
            JOHN CRUDEN ROBINSON
            John Cruden Robinson was born in 
                        Rush county
                    , Indiana, February 29, 1840. He came of sturdy stock. He was a son of Osmyn and Nancy
                    Robinson. His father was a man of force and influence in 
                        Rush county
                    , was noted for his natural ability and served as a member of the General Assembly in
                    1839. His uncle, John L. Robinson, was an influential politician in Indiana, filled the position of 
                        United States
                     Marshal for the district of Indiana under the administration of President Buchanan. His
                    father died in 1847, leaving his wife  with the care of seven
                    children. She was a woman of natural ability and energy, however, and although in moderate
                    circumstances she succeeded in training, preparing and educating her children for careers of
                    usefulness. She died in 1876. John C. spent his early years on the farm, assisting his mother in
                    conducting the same. During that time he was developing mind as well as muscle, cultivating a taste
                    for literary pursuits and reading many useful books. After attending the common schools the usual
                    length of time, he was prepared for college at Fairview academy under the instruction of Professor
                    "William M. Thrasher, who at a later period was connected with 
                        Butler
                     University.
            He entered the State University at 
                        Bloomington
                     in 1857, from which institution he graduated with honor in 1861. His proficiency in
                    scholarship was of a high order and his college days were days of joy and pleasure. In college he
                    became a member of the Greek fraternity Phi Delta Theta. It may be said to the credit of Judge
                    Robinson that in later years especially, it has been one of the delights of his life to honor the
                    memory of his college instructors, especially that of Professors Wylie, Ballentine and Kirkwood.
            When Judge Robinson graduated in 1861, the war of the rebellion was in full progress. While he was
                    never mustered into military service, he served in the capacity of clerk in the
                    quartermaster's department under quartermaster W. C. Tarkington for a period of about 18
                    months in the field.
            At the conclusion of his services with quartermaster Tarkington he returned home, taught school for a
                    time and began the study of law. In the year of 1865 he located at 
                        Spencer
                     for the practice of his profession, arriving on the eighth of May. He soon established
                    a reputation as a lawyer of no mean ability. In 1866 he was appointed prosecuting attorney to fill
                    the vacancy caused by the death of Jacob S. Broadwell and was subsequently elected twice to the same
                    office. In 1872 he was a candidate for reporter of the supreme court on the Democratic State ticket,
                    but was defeated with the rest of the ticket. In 1871 he formed a partnership with Inman H. Fowler
                    for the practice of law which continued until 1876, when he was elected judge of the circuit court.
                    He occupied the bench the full term of six years.
            In March 1883, he was appointed by Governor Albert G. Porter, as a member of the committee to locate
                    and erect the State hospitals  for the insane at
                            
                  Logansport, Richmond
               , and 
                        Evansville
                     and was re-appointed to the same position by Governor Gray. He wass elected journal
                    clerk of the national House of Representatives in 1887, serving in that capacity until 1890.
            In politics Judge Robinson was a Democrat of the old school and for many years was active in party
                    affairs. Although greatly attached to his party, he could not approve the 16 to 1 silver proposition
                    of Mr. Bryan in 1896 and served as a candidate for presidential elector for the State at large on
                    the Democratic gold ticket. In the spring of 1890 he moved to 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, where he engaged in the practice of law, but returned to 
                        Spencer
                     four years later.
            Judge Robinson was a member of the Christian church. For many years he was president of the Indiana
                    State Christian Sunday School Association and active in its affairs. He was a member of the Odd
                    Fellows and a Mason.
            In April, 1869, he was married to Martha J., daughter of the late John J. Cooper. Three children were
                    born to them–Guy, who died at the age of two years, Ralph now in the Philippine
                        islands, where he has been engaged ten years in educational work, and Jesse, now
                    residing at 
                        Spencer
                    .
            HORACE P. OWEN
            Horace P. Owen, the oldest surviving member of the distinguished Owen family, died at his home at 
                        New Harmony
                    , March 9. He was a son of Richard Owen, and a grandson of the great Robert Owen. He was
                    president of the 
                        New Harmony
                     Centennial commission and president of the 
                        New Harmony
                     Banking company. He was 71 years of age. Death was due to hardening of the arteries. He
                    served with honor during the civil war. He is survived by his wife, who is a daughter of the late
                    Dr. Mann of 
                        New Harmony
                    , two daughters, Mrs. Arthur Armstrong of 
                        Memphis
                    , Tenn., and Mrs. Aline Neal of 
                        New Harmony
                    , and one son, Richard Dale Owen of 
                        Los Angeles
                    . The genealogical table on the following page shows the relationship of this famous
                    family
            
            
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notes
            The story of the American West is being told. That energy of the West which has entered the current
                    of national development is becoming known. The recognition of the part played by the
                        Misissippi valley in the development of the 
                        United States
                     is the most distinctive characteristic of present-day research in the field of American
                    history. This recognition has been won almost solely by the efforts of western historians. The
                        Mississippi Valley Historical Association was organized in 1907 in order
                    that the study of the West might he more systematically promoted and correlated. The success of that
                    organization has justified the development that is announced in a circular, the publication of a
                    quarterly devoted to the study of the history of the valley, the first number of which will appear on June 1, 1914.
         
         
            
               The Methodist Episcopal Church and the Civil War. By William Warren Sweet,
                    Ph.D., Professor of History, DePauw University. (Methodist Book Concern, 
                        Cincinnati
                    .) pp. 228, 1913.
            The Methodist church was extremely active during the period immediately preceding the Civil War. It
                    was among the first to grapple with the slavery question. The question would not yield to any
                    attempt at solution, so the church divided into a Methodist Church South and a Methodist Church
                    North. The Northern church numbered about 1,000,000 members, one tenth of whom were in Indiana, this
                    State ranking fourth in the list.
            The Methodists of the North were aggressive anti-slavery advocates, pressing the fight from 
                        Baltimore
                     to 
                        Kansas
                    . Editors of Methodist papers who did not keep well out on the firing line were
                    invariably replaced by more outspoken men.
            As a consequence of this they also found themselves close to the danger line when the crash of war
                    came. A large number of the members enlisted and likewise a large number of Methodist preachers
                    found appointments as chaplains in the regiments where their passionate appeal had great influence
                    in keeping up the courage of the troops. In like manner the Methodist bishops could always be  relied upon as rally-day orators. Their eloquent appeals for
                    the Union were heard not only throughout the Union but in 
                        Paris
                     and 
                        London
                    .
            Besides these more important phases of the church work, Dr. Sweet has added chapters on the less
                    well-known work of the church. The trials and persecutions of the ministers in the Border States
                    during the period between the separation of the church and the opening of the war make a thrilling
                    chapter. Another chapter deals with the church periodicals, another with the work and personalities
                    of the war bishops, some of whom stood close to the Lincoln administration. Some valuable source
                    material is included in an appendix of 37 pages. A bibliography of twelve pages is given in addition
                    to the foot-notes.
            The necessity of crowding a large volume into the compass of a doctor's thesis has in many
                    places left its painful evidence. On the whole it is an excellent little volume, the material in
                    which would be hard to find in so convenient a form.
         
         
            
               Our Old School. By Theodore Stein. (
                        Indianapolis
                    .) pp. 211. 1914.
            This is an historical sketch of the German-English Independent school of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This school opened January 21, 1854 and continued to July 14, 1882. The author has
                    sought in this small book merely to treasure up a few of the memories of a congenial band of
                    immigrants and refugees, who, in most cases, fleeing from the tyranny of the reactionary government
                    of the Fatherland built up a small community in what to them no doubt seemed a frontier town. This
                    volume is a mere sketch, a fragment from the history of that large number of radical Germans who
                    came to America at this opportune time.
            One of the significant things in connection with the coming of these Germans was the suspicion and
                    distrust with which they were regarded by the Americans. Although they usually exceeded the
                    community in which they lived in education, industry and energy they were called anarchists by many
                    newspapers. Others pointed out that they were irreligious, clannish, given to meeting in secret
                    conclaves where no doubt sedition, and treason, to say nothing 
                    of lesser crimes, would be hatched. The fact that they did not enter with the usual western spirit
                    into the political campaigns made them suspicious to the politicians.
            When these men petitioned the school authorities of 
                        Indianapolis
                     to have their children taught German the city fathers refused their request for the
                    reason that nothing would do more toward making good citizens of these same Germans than to deprive
                    them of their native language.
            It was this narrow policy that drove them to the old Independent school.
            One is surprised at the long list of well-known names connected with this
                    school–Seidensticker, Vonnegut, Koehne, Meyer, Lieber, Metzger, Strauss, Haueisen,
                    Schnull, Mayer, Ilielseher and scores of others, the substantial citizens of the city for the last
                    half century. One can scarcely believe that much the same cry was raised at their coming as we hear
                    now against the "ignorant foreigners."
            Mr. Stein does not confine himself strictly to the recitation room but gives us a pretty full picture
                    of the life of the times. The "Helvetia Bund" the
                    "Weinachtsfest," the "Volksfest," the
                    "Turn-verein" the "Maennerchor", the "Preier Maenner
                    Verein", their newspapers, their songs, their picnics, are all remembered by the author.
                    Doubtless the most valuable part of the book to those for whom it was prepared is the album of
                    pictures including most of the teachers, trustees and others closely connected7
                    with the school. Lists of teachers with dates, trustees, subscribers, and friends are given.
            The book is not a history and makes no pretense to be but when the history of the Germans in Indiana
                    is undertaken much valuable material will be found in this little volume.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Virginia
                         Under the Stuarts. By Thomas J. Wertenbaker, (
                        Princeton
                     University Press. 1914.)
            As the author states in the preface, the work is a political history of 
                        Virginia
                     written from the documents. Hence, the author does not attempt to describe how the
                    early settlers lived or made a livelihood. He does not describe affairs and institutions in 
                        England
                     that throw light upon or had indirect influence in bringing about events in 
                        America
                    . He limits himself very closely to his documents, making  them very nearly tell the story, and injecting very little explanation
                    and interpretation of his own. By the copious references the reader knows at every turn upon whose
                    authority he accepts the statements, leaving the reader rather free to make his own interpretations.
                    A little more explanation from the author's own understanding might at times help the
                    average reader along. For instance, in describing the "starving time," the author
                    shows from the records how sickness, Indian attacks, and the uncertainty of provision-ships produced
                    hardships, but fails to point out that the real trouble was that the English yeoman had difficulty
                    in transforming himself into the pioneer who could plunge into the forest with his rifle and live
                    without English food and clothes. This is a case wherein the author had stuck rather too closely to
                    his documents.
            The book is well planned. The chapter divisions make the different phases of 
                        Virginia
                     history stand out clearly. The narrative runs along smoothly and is rather easily
                    followed. However, a few omissions impair the sequence. To take some illustrations from the first
                    two chapters, it is not always clear when one deputy governor left and another came. Dale and Argoll
                    are introduced on page 23, and Dale's work is again discussed on page 25, but one needs to
                    read several pages further before one finds when Dale succeeded Gates, and one looks in vain to find
                    just when Argoll was deputy governor. The reader finds Yeardly coming as Deputy governor in 1616 and
                    reappearing as governor in 1619 without any intimation as to who was in control of the colony in the
                    meantime.
            For an example of another kind of omission, we might take the author's discussion of the
                    charters. In dealing with the charter of 1606, the author states that two councils were concerned
                    with the government of the 
                        London
                     Company's grant. This is not the whole truth. As a matter of fact, the Charter
                    of 1606 provided for 5 councils, one council for all "
                        Virginia
                    ," two councils for that part of 
                        Virginia
                     assigned to the 
                        London
                     Company, and two for the 
                        Plymouth
                     grant. So that there were really three councils concerned with the tract of land which
                    was later known as 
                        Virginia
                    .
            Again, in discussing how each successive charter was a move in the direction of preparing for the
                    establishment of representative government in 
                        America
                    , the author has omitted mention of the  specific
                    way in which the charter of 1609 made it possible for the Puritan element, led by Sandys and
                    favoring representative government in 
                        America
                    , to secure control of the company.
            The index to the book is excellent. There is no bibliography but a list of books referred to is
                    given.
         
         
            
               The Quakers of 
                            Iowa
                        . By Louis Thomas Jones, Ph.D., (
                        Iowa City
                    , 
                        Iowa
                    ) pp. 360. 1914.
            This volume is a thesis submitted to the history faculty of the State University of 
                        Iowa
                     in partial fulfillment of the requirements of the doctorate degree. After a brief
                    discussion of Quakers in 
                        England
                     and in the American colonies the writer drops suddenly into the heart of his story.
            The Quakers were among the earliest settlers in 
                        Iowa
                    , locating soon after the Black Hawk war and the consequent Black Hawk purchase had
                    freed the country around 
                        Burlington
                     of the natives. Isaac Pigeon of 
                        South Carolina
                     and Aaron Street of 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, were the pioneers. They named their new city in remembrance of Streets old
                    home, at 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana. The greater number of the settlers seem to have migrated from Indiana. In
                    1837 a company of nine families from Cherry Grove Monthly Meeting, near 
                  Williamsburg, Wayne
               
                    county, Indiana arrived. A catalogue of two scores of names of these 
                        Iowa
                     pioneers shows that they were really a Hoos-ier colony. They Avere a part of the
                    Indiana 
                        Quaker
                     community till the Western Quarterly Meeting at 
                        Bloomfield
                     gave them permission to establish their own Monthly Meeting in 1838. But one would have
                    to retell the whole story to show how closely the history of the 
                        Iowa
                     Quakers is related to those of Indiana.
            The author discusses the pioneer struggles of the early 
                        Quaker
                     communities of 
                        Iowa
                    , their form of worship, their dissenting churches, their benevolent and educational
                    enterprises, their social life and customs. Copious notes indicate the thoroughness of the
                    investigation. It is an inexcusable mistake to put the notes at the close of the volume, however. It
                    is bad enough to have to stop reading and go to the foot of the page to read a note but to be
                    compelled to go to the back of the book is too much.
         
         
            
               The, 
                            Ohio
                         Archaeological and Historical Quarterly for April contains a forty-five page
                    article by Calvin Young on the "Birthplace of Little Turtle." According to Mr.  Young, Little Turtle was born near Blue
                    River lake, two miles northwest of Cherubusco in 
                        Whitley county
                    , Indiana, He was the son of a Miami chief and a Mohican squaw. He was with Burgoyne on
                    the march down to Saratoga; in 1780 h'e led the Miami warriors at the massacre of La Balme
                    and his party eight miles southwest of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ; he defeated Colonel Hardin north of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in 1790; the next year he inflicted the disastrous massacre on the regular army under
                    St. Clair at Fort Recovery; in 1794 and 1795 he was outgeneraled by 
                        Wayne
                     and his power broken at the Battle of Fallen Timbers. After that he became a firm
                    friend to the white people. He died at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     at the beginning of the war of 1812. The article contains a great deal of information
                    not easily accessible elsewhere.
            
               One Hundred Topics in 
                            Iowa
                         History in the title of a 44 page pamphlet by Dan Elbert Clark. The author has
                    arranged 100 important topics covering the field of 
                        Iowa
                     History, giving under each topic from four to ten references. The pamphlet is intended
                    for the use of clubs studying State history.
            
               
                        New Harmony
                     is preparing for an elaborate centennial celebration June 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 13.
                    The program provides for Rapp day, Devotional day, Owen day, Woman day, Indiana day, Fraternal day
                    and 
                        Posey County
                     day. Among the orators are George B. Lockwood, author of the 
                  
                            New Harmony
                         Movement, Benjamin Bosse, Mayor of Bvansville, Ex-President Taft, Charles W.
                    Fairbanks, Governor Samuel Ralston, Senator John Kern, Senator B. F. Shiveley, Judge John M. Lewis,
                    James E. Watson, Major G. V. Menzies. The feature that appeals most to the historian is the
                    Historical Pageant by the school children. The pageant will represent Pre-Rappite, Rappite, and
                    Owenite-periods. This work has been arranged and prepared by Miss Charity Dye, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            
               
                        Henry County
                     Historical Society held its twenty-eighth annual meeting at its home, formerly the
                    residence of General William Grose, at 
                        Newcastle
                     April 30, 1914.
            The invocation was given by Rev. T). II. Lewis of the Friend's Church, followed by a piano
                    solo by Miss Mabel Neff. After the appointing of committees the real program of the day was given.
                    Clarence H. Smith read a paper on the 
                        Henry County
                     Seminary in  the early fifties. This was prepared
                    from material contained in a diary, which his mother, the late Katherine Taylor Smith had kept in
                    her sixteenth year. The paper dealt largely with the frivolities of boys and girls sixty years ago
                    and was conclusive proof that they were of much the same stuff as the boys and girls in school
                    today. At that time the instructors were Russel B. Abbott, a graduate of Indiana University in 1847,
                    and James A. Ferris, and so popular was the school that students came 'from all parts of 
                        Henry
                    , 
                        Delaware
                     and 
                        Randolph
                     counties. They also had a school paper and it dealt in personalities very much after
                    the manner of school papers today. Here is a sample of the verse from its pages: 
                        "The Mouse that trusts to one poor hole, Can never be a mouse of any
                        soul."
                    
            
            Bear's grease and cinnamon oil seem to have been used to such an extent on the heads of the
                    boys that an indignation meeting was held and very drastic resolutions drawn up and unanimously
                    approved. If the "odor" Avas not abated voluntarily it was resolved to place a
                    mustard plaster on the heads of the offenders in order "to draw the judgment out of their
                    feet."
            The historical sketch of Mr. Seth Stafford who died last October at the age of 83 was a most
                    interesting production. One statement in the sketch was, that of the many schools taught by Mr.
                    Stafford, in at least one of them his compensation was only $10 per month and he paid his
                    own board. There were two or three in the audience who had been pupils of this fine old pioneer and
                    they testified as to his worth as a teacher.
            A similar sketch of the late Christian Swain, of 
                        Prairie
                     township, the man who lived to be more than 100 years old, was read by J. J. Hoover of
                    Springport.
            After an original reading by John Marts every one was invited to the large dining rooms where the
                    usual bountiful and excellent dinner was served and enjoyed.
            The report of the nominating committee was read immediately after dinner, and was approved. The
                    officers for the ensuing year are: President, William II. Keesling, Mechaniesburg; Secretary,
                    Lillian E. Chambers, 
                        Newcastle
                    ; Treasurer, A. W. Saint, 
                        Newcastle
                    ; Trustee, J. H. Hewitt.
            
            The president then called for donations and loans to the society of relics and rare articles of
                    historic value. Mr. Edward Smith made the society the tender of pictures of his father and mother,
                    the late Lewis and Barbara Smith. Mrs. Watson of Dunreith tendered copies of Vicksburg and 
                        Memphis
                     papers of the Civil War days.
            One of the best prepared and most interesting papers read by any one on the early history of Indiana,
                    was that by Dr. James A. Wood-burn. His subject was "Early Life and Local Color in
                    Indiana" and dealt mainly with the portion of the State that was called the New Purchase, a
                    tract from which 37 counties of the State were afterwards organized.
            At the close of his paper Dr. Woodburn was given a vote of thanks for his fine entertainment of the
                    afternoon. He certainly made a warm spot for himself in the hearts of the members of the 
                        Henry County
                     Historical Society, who hope to have him with them again at some future time.
            A paper contributed by Daniel W. Newby of 
                        Kansas
                     on Rich-Square and Pleasant Hill as he knew them sixty years ago
                    was read by Mrs. Benjamin S. Parker. A memorial sketch of Elias and Clark-son Phelps, prepared by
                    Professor Reece a grandson of the former, told the story of two of the notable and noble men of the
                    county.
            The meeting adjourned to meet in semi-annual session the last Thursday in October 1914.
            Lillian E. Chambers, Secretary.
            William M. Sweet, Professor of History, DePauw University, addressed the History Club of Indiana
                    University on "Bishop Simpson and the Funeral of President Lincoln." Among the
                    many suggestive things pointed out he emphasized the close relation between Lincoln's
                    Administration and the churches. The preachers exerted a great influence on the people during that
                    period and that influence was always on the side of law and order. The close personal friendship of
                    the President for Bishop Simpson was also evidenced. The address and the visit were appreciated.
            Laura Hostetter, a special writer on the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Courier has published in the Sunday Courier a series of articles
                    on 
                        New Harmony
                    . The charm of this quaint old community still remains. Miss Hostetter has found a large
                    circle of interested readers. The articles have been copied in several local papers, especially by
                    the New  Harmony Times. Although 
                        New Harmony
                     is the subject of an extensive literature Miss Hostetter has found a great deal of new
                    matter of interest that had hitherto escaped the historian.
            
               
                        Salem
                    , the county seat of 
                        Washington county
                    , is one of the centennial towns of 1914. It is preparing for a celebration and
                    "Home-Coming Week" in October. Some fine people with good blood in their veins and
                    ideas in their heads came into that community a hundred years ago. 
                        Salem
                     was laid out in the spring of 1814, Jonathan Lindley being one of the founders of the
                    town. A worthy celebration of the event was held in 
                        Salem
                     on Saturday April 4. People came from different parts of the county and the town put on
                    a gala appearance. At a public meeting in the opera house there were suitable exercises. Mr. C. N.
                    Lindley, President of the State Horticultural Society, read a brief history of the settlement of 
                        Salem
                    . Professor J. A. Woodburn, of Indiana University, gave an address on "Early
                    Life in Indiana," and Professor U. G. Weatherly, of the University, spoke briefly of the
                    significances of the celebration, and the sterling characteristics of the early settlers. 
                        Salem
                     and 
                        Washington county
                     have a history that is well worth celebrating. The county deserves a good local history
                    society.
            Samuel B. Wells, editor of the Scott County Journal, published in that paper, April
                    1, an interesting story of the Underground Railroad operation before the War. The article includes a
                    graphic description of the 
                        St. Louis
                     Slave Market as witnessed by P. T. Lambert in 1856.
            
               The Western Sun, April 3, has an account of the old Fort which has stood at White
                    Oak Springs near 
                        Petersburg
                     since the war of 1812. It is said to have been erected by Woolsey Pride and was
                    formerly surrounded by a stockade. It was a two story log building with port holes from the second
                    story. It is not known definitely that it was ever beseiged by Indians. A good account of the fort
                    is given by Col. William M. Cockrum in his Pioneer History of Indiana page 169.
            Dr. W. W. Sweet of DePauw University addressed the 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Society at 
                        Springfield
                    , May 7, on "The Methodist Church and Reconstruction."
            
            
               
                        Rockville
                     and 
                        Parke county
                     are joining the procession of local communities that are looking forward to the
                    Centennial Celebration. The town has a few years to go yet before it reaches the hundred mark, but
                    under the leadership of the "Hoosier Club" and other literary clubs of the county
                    preparation is to be made by n study of local history and local topics. A beginning was made by a
                    meeting in 
                        Rockville
                     on Friday evening April 17, at which Professor James A. Woodburn read his paper on
                    "Early Life and Local Color in the New Purchase." There was good attendance and
                    the interest indicates that the associated clubs and the people of the community will respond to the
                    spirit of the movement. Mrs. Rufus Dooley, President of the Hoosier Club, and Mr. Walter Purguson,
                    one of the executive officers are actively interested in the Centennial movmeut.
            
               The Washington Historical Quarterly for April contains the journal of John Works,
                    June, October, 1825. Works was an officer in the Hudson's Bay Company. The Washington Quarterly has already published a great many of the documents of this early
                    life in the northwest. These have the advantage over most historical source materials in that they
                    are entertaining reading.
            
               The 
                            Danville
                         Republican, April 2, has an account of the last service by the Christian
                    church of that town in their old building. The occasion was celebrated by reviews of the different
                    church activities during its career since 1844. Such celebrations have permanent value in arousing
                    attachment to local institutions.
            
               The Corydon Democrat celebrated its 58th birthday April 15. It was founded by
                    Simeon K. Wolfe who represented the Second District in Congress 1873-1875. Among its later editors
                    were S. M. Stockslager, who sat in the 47th Congress for the Third District, Amzi Brewster who
                    served sixteen years as county auditor, Smith Askren who sat fourteen years in the State
                    Legislature, George K. Gwartney who was prosecuting attorney, and Charles W. Thomas who was school
                    superintendent for thirteen years and once candidate for State Superintendent. Lew M.
                    O'Bannon is editor at present.
            The March number of the Bulletin of the Indiana State Library was devoted largely
                    to the forthcoming Indiana Centennial celebration. The leading article is an argument by Miss McNitt
                    for a centennial  memorial building. Attention is called to the
                    fact that the State Library is overcrowded, that much valuable material is being lost every year for
                    want of a building in which to store it, and lastly pictures of some of the beautiful State Museum
                    buildings recently erected by our neighbor States are given.
            The 
                  
                            Salem
                         Democrat, April 22, has a page of interesting reminiscences by Joseph
                    Cartwright a pioneer of "Washington county now living in 
                        Garden City
                    , Mo. His descriptions of life and customs preceding and during the War are well done.
            
               The Attica Ledger-Press has just completed an excellent work in local history in
                    the form of a county land owner's map 29x43 inches.
            The founding of three new party organs in the past year is a significant fact in politics as well as
                    in newspaper history. February 1, 1914, the 
                        Elkhart
                    
                    Progressive Democrat, a daily, appeared. James A. Bell is general manager. About
                    one year ago George B. Lockwood began the publication of the Indiana State Journal
                    at 
                        Muncie
                     with an office at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This paper bears the file number of the old Indiana State Journal
                    which for almost a century pleaded the cause of Whig and Republican politics. It is the organ of the
                    Republican party, freely and frankly Republican. March 6, 1914 appeared the first number of The Citizen, the organ of the Progressive party. Its editor is George W. Stout of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , at which place it is published…
            These papers are all distinctly partisan, though not in the old sense of promoting party success at
                    any price. Each represents distinct principles of government, and each stands for clean party
                    performance.
         
      
      
         
      
   
