
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 43, Issue 4, pages 307-418. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:43+issue:4+year:1947&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Medical Practices on the Frontier
            
                    Edward E. Dale
                    ⋆
                
            Many persons now past, or approaching, the age of the three score and ten years traditionally
                    allotted to man and who grew up on the American frontier will assert that in the old days sickness
                    was quite rare. They seem to remember that in their youth they had no aches or pains but were always
                    strong and healthy and even declare that all other people in their home communities were the same.
            Such people must either be afflicted with acute amnesia or have what the late Professor Edward
                    Channing once referred to as "a constructive memory." While it is quite true that
                    the American pioneers were a vigorous and hardy breed partly because the weaklings did not live long
                    under the conditions of frontier life, they were, nevertheless, human animals and as such were
                    subject to most diseases and ailments which afflict people today plus some additional ones that were
                    the result of their manner of living and their lack of knowledge of the most elementary principles
                    of hygiene and sanitation.
            The practices herein described were as common in such states as Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , and 
                        Tennessee
                     between 1840 and 1870 as they were in the trans-
                        Mississippi
                     states during a later period and prevailed to a considerable extent throughout the
                    rural districts of the entire 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley down to the end of the nineteenth century. In fact, traces of them may still be
                    found in the more remote and backward communities of the southern and central portions of the 
                        United States
                    .
            In the pioneer West an entire family lived in a log cabin, sod house, dugout, or structure of rough
                    lumber usually consisting of not more than three rooms and often of one 
                  
                     ⋆ Dr. Edward E. Dale is research professor of history at
                            the University of 
                        Oklahoma, Norman, Oklahoma
                     .
               
                     or two. Even though the great majority of these frontiersmen
                    were comparatively young people, there were often three or four children and in some cases as many
                    as six or seven or even more. Such a small house meant crowded quarters for five to eight or nine
                    people. In winter it was cold and draughty and yet ventilation was often poor. The family slept two
                    or three in a bed with the windows tightly closed just as they had been throughout the day. It has
                    been said that "the air is pure in the country because country people always sleep with the
                    windows closed!" Certainly that was the custom in the frontier communities because in the
                    prairie region fuel was scarce and even in the wooded areas the pioneer found it easier to close the
                    windows than to chop more wood.
            Screens for the doors and windows were unknown and flies were a perpetual plague in summer by day and
                    in many places mosquitoes a great source of annoyance by night. A child was frequently given a leafy
                    branch and assigned the task of "minding flies off the table" when company was
                    present, but the guests usually felt that it was only courteous to assert that this was unnecessary
                    and that everyone should be expected to "mind his own flies." That disease germs
                    were frequently carried to food by flies was of course certain. A sheet of mosquito bar was
                    frequently spread over a cradle to keep flies off a sleeping baby but many were likely to find their
                    way beneath it. The same material was also used to prevent the entrance of mosquitoes, but few
                    householders had a sufficient quantity to cover all windows and a "smudge" was
                    sometimes kindled to discourage these pestiferous insects.
            The water for household use came, in most cases, from a near-by spring or stream or was drawn from a
                    shallow well. It was not always pure and in many instances must have been contaminated by the
                    presence of colon bacilli or other germs of disease. The whole family drank from a common cup,
                    gourd, or tin dipper, washed in a single pan, and dried their hands and faces on the same towel. The
                    crossroads store always had a shelf in the rear equipped with a pail of water with a tin cup hanging
                    on a near-by nail from which thirsty customers drank freely, undisturbed by any thought of the
                    unsanitary nature of such a practice. The country school had a single water pail to accommodate
                    thirty or forty youngsters who seemed to the teacher perpetually  thirsty. The little hotel or tavern had similar drinking arrangements and guests, after washing
                    their hands and faces in a common basin, dried them on a "roller towel," the more
                    fastidious ones rolling it up or down often in a vain effort to find a reasonably clean and dry
                    spot.
            Visitors to a home drank from the common dipper and used the same washbasin as did the family with
                    the hostess making no concession except to put out a clean towel. The small son of the household
                    filled a basin half full of water, and he and his little playmate alternately snorted into it a
                    couple of times, dabbling a little water on the more central portion of their faces, and sometimes
                    chanting the little couplet: "Wash together, Friends forever."
            Bathing facilities were extremely meager. In summer the settler and his sons swam in the creek or
                    pond, and in winter a washtub was filled with water every Saturday night and the children placed in
                    it by strong-arm methods and scrubbed within an inch of their lives. If water had to be hauled or
                    carried a long distance, the "rinse water" of the family washing was sometimes
                    saved until evening and the youngsters bathed in it before they were put to bed.
            Every family had a single comb and brush which was used by all of its members. Toothbrushes were
                    unknown unless a hackberry root with one end chewed sufficiently to form a small mop could be so
                    designated. It was dipped in salt and used to rub the teeth lightly or they might be polished a bit
                    with one corner of the towel. Some men carried a gold-plated toothpick, or one made of deer bone and
                    used it to remove particles of food from between the teeth after every meal. Chewing gum, commonly
                    called "wax" in the South, was scarce and a single chew was passed about from
                    mouth to mouth of three or four children sometimes for days.
            When a number of boys had assembled to play ball one hot Sunday afternoon at the edge of the Cross
                    Timbers of North 
                        Texas
                    , one of the four Dye brothers eagerly besought his younger brother to go to the nearest
                    well a quarter of a mile away and bring a pail of water for the benefit of the sweating, thirsty
                    players. "Now, Walter," he pleaded earnestly, "if you'll take
                    the bucket and bring us a bucket of nice cool water from Mr. Clark's well, I'll
                    let you chew the wax! 
                        Monroe
                     is chewin' it now but his hour is about up and it's my time to chew it next.
                    Now you do that, Walter, like a good  boy, and I'll
                    skip my turn and let you chew the wax!" Unable to resist the promise of such a reward,
                    Walter seized the water pail and started in a lope for Mr. Clark's well.
            It was not only in the home, school, store, or tavern, however, that such unsanitary practices
                    prevailed. The idea of individual cups to be used in partaking of the Lord's Supper, had
                    never entered the head of any churchgoer. When the time came for the sacrament, a glass of wine and
                    a cake of unleavened bread were placed on a tray and passed up and down the rows of benches on which
                    members of the congregation sat. Each held the bread with one hand while he broke off a fragment
                    with the other and put it into his mouth. He then took a sip from the glass. If the little church
                    boasted a cottage organ, the worshippers could at least get their disease germs to the strains of
                    soft music and in a spiritual atmosphere!
            Under such conditions, it is not strange that when any person acquired a communicable disease, it was
                    not only likely to be transmitted to all other members of the family but to sweep through the entire
                    community. Colds, flu, measles, mumps, whooping cough, scabies, sore eyes, and other contagious or
                    infectious diseases were very common among the American pioneers. Smallpox was usually regarded as
                    serious enough to demand the isolation of the patient though it too might occasionally reach
                    epidemic proportions. Venereal disease was uncommon among rural settlers but by no means unknown,
                    and tuberculosis must have taken a considerable toll of lives. Trachoma undoubtedly existed but was
                    not known by that name but as "granulated lids." The treatment of any of the
                    diseases named was, moreover, usually crude and quite unscientific.
            The food of the average pioneer settler was abundant and substantial and of a type calculated to
                    enable him to swing a heavy ax, hoe, or maul for hours but the character of the meals in most
                    frontier homes would be viewed with horror by the modern dietitian. They leaned heavily towards fats
                    and starches. Meat was plentiful but, except in the early years of the settlement of a region where
                    game was abundant, it was usually salt pork, bacon, or ham. Fresh meat was rare in summer or, in
                    fact at any other season except "hog killing time" in the late autumn, or upon
                    those occasions when a neighbor killed a beef. At sush times, 
                    children, who had subsisted largely on strong "side meat" for many months, ate
                    "not wisely but too well," often with disastrous results. Refrigeration and ice
                    were of course unknown and food frequently spoiled in warm weather. If the family had a spring
                    house, milk, butter, and other perishable foods were kept in it. Otherwise milk was strained into
                    large shallow stone "crocks" and placed on a table in the cellar, along with
                    butter wrapped in a wet cloth. A jug of buttermilk was often tied to the end of a long rope and
                    "hung in the well" in much the same fashion as was "the moss covered
                    bucket." Nearly every kitchen had a cupboard with sides made of wire screen or perforated
                    tin to allow a free circulation of air without admitting flies. Dishes and food were kept in this
                    cabinet which was commonly known as a "safe" but with a number of perpetually
                    hungry children about, the term was something of a misnomer so far as food was concerned.
            During the winter months there was a lamentable lack of fresh fruits and green vegetables. As a
                    result many impatient youngsters could not wait for fruit to ripen but often ate green apples or
                    watermelons. Even later when fruit was ripe they stuffed themselves to repletion with plums,
                    peaches, berries, and grapes, as well as green corn and various types of vegetables. The result was
                    often grave disturbance of the digestive system commonly referred to as "summer
                    complaint." Milk was abundant in some areas but very scarce in others where even small
                    children drank strong, black coffee.
            Knowledge of what constitutes a proper diet for young children was almost wholly lacking. Babes in
                    arms were fed mashed potatoes, cabbage, spinach, squash, pie, cake, and cookies. While so young that
                    they had only their natural food, they usually remained reasonably healthy, but once they began to
                    be fed such things as would tax the digestion of an adult laborer, it frequently became another
                    story. The type of solid food given to them was probably largely responsible for the widely
                    prevailing belief that the most dangerous period for every baby was "the second
                    summer." In the light of modern medical science it is not surprising that infant mortality
                    was shockingly high, but that any child lived to maturity. As a matter of fact while only the strong
                    and healthy survived, one who lived to the sixth or seventh 
                    year was likely not only to reach manhood or womanhood but to achieve a ripe old age.
            Since hospitals were unknown all babies were brought into the world in the primitive homes often
                    without the benefit of any further medical skill or attention than such as could be furnished by
                    some ancient midwife commonly known as a "granny woman." Under such circumstances
                    childbearing was a frightful ordeal accompanied by much suffering and grave danger. The cemeteries
                    scattered about the region that was frontier half a century or more ago have many grave stones
                    inscribed " mother and infant" which tell a tragic story.
            The manner of life of the pioneer settler was such that he and the members of his family suffered
                    many minor injuries as cuts, burns, bruises, and abrasions. The children cut their fingers or
                    stepped on nails, thorns, or bits of broken glass. They were stung by bees, wasps, or scorpions,
                    bitten by spiders, or occasionally by a snake, or developed boils and felons, or acquired stone
                    bruises. A foot was sometimes cut open by an ax. Children were hurt at play and there is the old
                    story of the small boy who came running in to tell his mother that: "Oscar got hit in the
                    back of the head by the ball and the bawl came out of his mouth!"
            Such injuries were usually of minor importance but there were some that were serious and proper
                    methods of treating them were seldom employed. Common baking soda was put on a sting or bite of an
                    insect while the turpentine bottle was to be found in every household and was brought out upon
                    numerous occasions. Turpentine was applied to bruises or aching joints and sometimes was mixed with
                    lard and rubbed on a sore throat or chest. Other common remedies for bruises, abrasions, or to
                    reduce swelling and inflammation were goose grease, mutton tallow, gizzard oil, or snake oil. Some
                    of these were mixed with turpentine or camphor to insure greater potency.
            In addition there were poultices of infinite variety. These were made of bread and milk, onions,
                    flaxseed, scraped beefsteak, hot salt, mustard, poke root, and a host of other substances. They were
                    applied to a boil or "felon" to "draw it to a head" or to any
                    wound, bruise, or sore spot. Mustard plasters were designed to relieve a soreness in the chest. A
                    small chicken was split in halves and one-half of the warm, 
                    quivering flesh applied to a spider bite to "draw out the poison." A snake bite
                    was usually treated by administering a stiff drink of whisky and cutting the wound to make it bleed
                    freely. It was then sometimes cauterized with a hot iron or by pouring a little gunpowder on it
                    which was then ignited with a match or flaming splinter. If a child were bitten on the foot, the
                    entire member was sometimes placed in a pail filled with kerosene.1
            
            In addition to these home remedies, there were various types of liniments and salves purchased at the
                    local drug store. These were of great variety and included many preparations known by the name of
                    their manufacturer and recommended as "good for man or beast and a sure cure for aches,
                    pains, cuts, bruises, old sores, or burns." Also there were eye salves, eye water,
                    "red precipity," used as a cure for itch, arnica salve, and ointments of many
                        kinds.2 Axle grease or tar was sometimes applied to cracked hands, and
                    glycerine to chapped lips, while sweet cream was used to relieve sunburn or skin eruptions due to
                    poison ivy.
            Most pioneers had a marked fear of hydrophobia and every community sooner or later had its
                    "mad dog scare." 
                  
                     1 Indian-Pioneer Papers, University of 
                                Oklahoma
                            , III, 340. These Papers contain 116 volumes and an index. They consist of the
                            reminiscences of old-time Indians and early pioneer settlers of 
                                Oklahoma
                            . The volumes average about 450 pages each of double-spaced typed material. The
                            collection was made in 1937 and 1938 under the terms of a W.P.A. project sponsored jointly
                            by the 
                                Oklahoma
                             Historical Society and the Department of History of the University of 
                                Oklahoma
                            , with Dr. Grant Foreman from Muskogee as director. Nearly 100 W.P.A. workers
                            were employed to visit and interview old Indians and early pioneer white settlers and to
                            secure from them statements as to their early experiences in 
                                Oklahoma
                            . While some of the statements are quite brief, consisting of not more than
                            three or four pages, many of them are lengthy and may run fifteen to twenty pages or even
                            more. As fast as they were collected, the interviews were transmitted to a central office
                            where a staff of typists under the direction of Dr. Foreman typed them and prepared them for
                            binding, making one carbon. There are but two sets of the Indian-Pioneer Papers in
                            existence. One is in the files of the 
                                Oklahoma
                             Historical Society, 
                                Oklahoma
                             City, 
                                Oklahoma
                            , and the other in the Frank Phillips Collection of the University of
                                    
                        Oklahoma, Norman, Oklahoma
                     .
                            The interviews were arranged alphabetically under the name of the person interviewed
                            throughout the set and the post-office address of each contributor is given. The collection
                            is a mine of information with respect to early life in 
                                Oklahoma
                             but must be used with care with respect to dates and events.
                  
                     2 Fort Smith, 
                                Arkansas
                            , Elevator, September 13, 1889, advertised Hunt's
                            Cure for Itch, and ibid., January 11, 1895, contains advertisements of
                            S.S.S. for Eczema, Bucklen's Arnica Salve, Bond's Cream Eye Salve, and
                            Ballard's Snow Liniment.
               
                     Rumors that a rabid dog had appeared in the community created
                    intensive excitement and were carried by the "grapevine telegraph" to everyone in
                    the neighborhood. The men promptly armed themselves with rifles and shotguns loaded with buckshot
                    and tramped the fields and woods in search of the animal, their steps guided by reports of its
                    having been seen at various places in the community. Most of the searchers declared that they would
                    be less alarmed by the knowledge that a ferocious lion was loose in the neighborhood. In the
                    meantime, the women remained close at home and tried to keep the children indoors, regaling one
                    another with horrid tales of someone of whom they had once heard who had been bitten and some days
                    later had gone raving mad. The victim was alleged to have had convulsions, accompanied by foaming at
                    the mouth and an insane desire to bite anyone who came near. In his lucid moments, he was said to
                    have earnestly begged to be put out of his misery but nobody caring to accommodate him, the
                    unfortunate person had suffered frightfully for two or three days and at last died in great agony.
                    The popeyed children who listened to such frightful stories were usually not difficult to keep
                    inside the house. Few of them could have been induced to step outside even for a moment
            When the animal had at last been tracked down and dispatched, the entire community heaved a sigh of
                    relief. Even then, however, the incident was not closed. There still remained the task of
                    slaughtering all dogs that had been bitten or that were even suspected of having been bitten. In
                    consequence faithful old Rover was likely to be sent to the happy hunting ground by a charge of
                    buckshot, secretly if possible to avoid the tears and lamentations of the younger members of the
                    household.
            If by chance some person had been bitten by the rabid animal, which was seldom the case, he was
                    immediately rushed to a "madstone" if one could be found in a radius of twenty or
                    thirty miles. The stone which was said to have been taken from the body of a white deer was applied
                    to the wound and if it refused to stick, it meant that there was no poison in the wound and so no
                    cause for worry. On the other hand, if it stuck, there was no doubt but that the deadly germs of
                    hydrophobia were present. When the faithful mad-stone had decided to call it a day and refused to
                    cling longer  to the wound despite repeated applications, it was
                    regarded as prima facie evidence that a complete cure had been effected. The
                    madstone was then placed in a bowl of sweet milk and luried stories were related of how the milk
                    curdled and became green in color from the poison that it had drawn from the wound. In any case, the
                    patient felt safe and returned home relieved of any further concern.
            Other animals than dogs were alleged to have hydrophobia in some instances and there were
                    hair-raising stories of experiences with rabid wolves and "hydrophobia cows."3 The bite of the small striped skunk, sometimes known as a
                    "hydrophobia cat," was alleged always to produce hydrophobia. They were dreaded
                    even more than rattlesnakes and any person bitten by one must rush to a madstone immediately. If
                    such a cure was not available, it was commonly believed that he might as well make his will, arrange
                    his world affairs, and, in the words of the old story, start making a preferential list of those he
                    expected to bite when he became mad!
            The superstition with respect to the madstone was common on the frontier but was only one of many
                    that related to the prevention or cure of ailments. A man sometimes carried a buckeye in his pocket
                    to ward off rheumatism. A mole's foot was attached to a string and tied about a
                    baby's neck to make cutting teeth easier. Also a small bag of asafetida was worn on a
                    string around the neck of a child to keep away disease germs. Probably there was some justification
                    for this practice since no one cared to go close enough to a child so equipped to transmit any germs
                    to him! The same reasoning may have been responsible for the idea that eating large quantities of
                    onions would prevent taking a cold.
            On the frontier the use of internal medicine was quite as prevalent as was the application of salves,
                    ointments, liniments, and plasters to relieve pain or heal minor injuries. There were some attempts
                    to practice preventive medicine, though most of the many concoctions taken to ward off disease
                    apparently had little or no value. In the early months of spring children were given a mixture of
                    sulphur, molasses, and cream of tartar to purify the blood. Also they were dosed 
                  
                     3 Statment of J. M. Ferris, Navajoe, 
                                Oklahoma
                            .
               
                     with sassafras tea to thin the blood and to make them fit to
                    face the heat of summer. Tonics were of infinite variety. A quart of whisky would be put into a jug
                    and some wild cherry bark, prickly ash berries, and sarsaparilla roots added, and the mixture
                    allowed to stand for several days or until the medicinal properties of the various other elements
                    had become merged with the whisky. A swallow of this taken night and morning was said to prevent
                    malaria, tone up the system, and improve the appetite. Other forms of bitters were made of a brew of
                    sarsaparilla roots, bitter apple, and various additional roots and herbs in order to stimulate the
                    appetite and improve digestion. Rusty nails were put into a bottle of water and a sip of the liquid
                    taken every day to insure plenty of iron in the blood.
            As already suggested, digestive disturbances due to improper food or excessive eating were very
                    common especially among children. A tea made of boiling the roots of a plant known as "red
                    root," which grew abundantly in the Southwest, was often given as a remedy for diarrhea,
                    dysentery, or "summer complaint." In fact "teas" were of as wide
                    variety as poultices. In addition to those already named there were sage tea, pennyroyal tea, ginger
                    tea, sarsaparilla tea, beef tea, rhubarb tea, horehound tea, and teas made from blackberry roots,
                    oak bark, or sheep droppings. They were ladled out to children not only for digestive disorders, but
                    also for colds, fever, or general "puniness" and a "run down
                    condition." Commercial tea called "store tea" was widely used in some
                    parts of the North as a beverage but on the southern frontier it seldom appeared except in cases of
                    sickness. The same was true of lemons, rice, and oranges which in many pioneer communities were
                    seldom purchased unless some member of the household was ill.
            On the frontier, as today, children attacked by colic due to overloading the stomach with more or
                    less indigestible foods were liberally dosed with castor oil. Appendicitis must have been fairly
                    common but the name was unknown and it was commonly called "inflammation of the
                    bowels." Typhoid fever, usually known as "slow fever," was also prevalent
                    in most cases being acquired from drinking contaminated water from shallow wells. It was treated by
                    giving the patient calomel or "blue mass" and sometimes quinine and limiting his
                    diet to soup and soft foods.
            
            In winter coughs, colds, bronchitis, sore throat, and pleurisy were widespread and pneumonia was by
                    no means uncommon. Every person had his own remedy for a cold which is not too different from the
                    situation today. Soaking the patient's feet in hot water and requiring him to drink a hot
                    lemonade or a large cup of hot ginger tea before going to bed was almost universally regarded as the
                    proper treatment. The masculine members of a household usually regarded a "hot whisky
                    stew" as more effective than either the lemonade or ginger tea but in any case the patient
                    must retire immediately and be covered with heavy blankets so that he might perspire profusely and
                    so "sweat the cold out of his system." A favorite remedy for coughs and colds was
                    whisky in which had been dissolved a considerable quantity of rock candy. In addition there were
                    cough syrups of various types but the most common was made by making a strong tea of horehound
                    leaves, adding sugar and boiling it until a thick syrup was formed. A teaspoonful of this three or
                    four times a day was regarded as a sure cure for a cough.
            Malaria was common on nearly every part of the frontier except the high arid plains. This is not
                    surprising with no screens on the doors and windows of the homes which were often near a stream or
                    pond that produced myriads of mosquitoes. The cause of malaria, commonly called "chills and
                    fever," was, however, quite unknown. Some asserted that "chills" were due
                    to eating green watermelons, excessive swimming in the creek, or merely to "being out in
                    the night air." Just what air you were expected to be out in after dark if not
                    "night air" nobody took the trouble to explain. The term malaria obviously means
                    "bad air" but tradition rather than the word was responsible for the
                    pioneer's fear. The remedy was quinine but since gelatine capsules had not yet been
                    invented, it was hard to get it down the youngsters. Sometimes it was dissolved in coffee, or more
                    often wrapped in a piece of soft stewed fruit and gulped down with the hope that the wrapping did
                    not slip while it was still in the mouth. Often a quantity would be added to a quart of whisky and
                    the mixture shaken up and a swallow taken night and morning in chill season as "preventive
                    medicine."
            In some sections of the Southern frontier chills were accepted almost as an inevitable part of life
                    and the man who was virtually "shaking the bark off the trees" with a chill  in the late afternoon would be going about his work the
                    following morning singing, whistling, and apparently in the best of health and spirits. In fact one
                    individual, with that trend toward exaggeration characteristic of most pioneers, declared that in
                    his community a man who did not have a chill every other day and an addition to his family every
                    year would hurry to a doctor to find out what was wrong with him!
            In addition to quinine, there were on the market numerous "chill tonics" some
                    alleged to be "tasteless" which was usually another example of exaggeration. As a
                    matter of fact, the average pioneer settler, in addition to the use of home remedies spent an
                    astonishingly large percentage of his meager income for medicines both for external and internal
                    use. The local drug store sold huge quantities of "liver regulator,"
                    "black draught," liver pills, or "bile beans" all advertised as
                    a sure cure for "biliousness." Of the so-called "patent
                    medicines" there was an infinite variety, some of which are still sold. They included Peruna; Swamp Root', Golden Medical Discovery; Vegetable Compound', Stomach Bitters;
                        Wine of Cardui; Beef, Iron and Wine; Ozomulsion, and a host of others. Some were
                    recommended for a single disease while others were real "omnibus remedies" alleged
                    to be a sure cure for any or all of a dozen ailments. For infants and young children there was a
                    wide assortment of soothing syrups, cordials, and of course, paregoric, and Castoria.
            Makers of patent medicines advertised their wares widely in the weekly papers and especially in the
                    monthly or semi-monthly household journals. Such advertisments sometimes showed the picture of a
                    dejected-looking individual labeled "before taking" and a stalwart physical
                    specimen tagged "after taking." Testimonials from grateful users of the remedy
                    were often printed as: "I was run down and life was a burden but after taking only five
                    bottles of your wonderful medicine, I am now entirely recovered."4
                    Occasionally an advertisement writer essayed verse asserting that:
            
                    Used outward or inward it never does harm As sure as you're faithful it works like a
                        charm
                
            One knowing the virture, or lack of it, of most charms and 
                  
                     4
                      Fort Smith, 
                                Arkansas
                            , Elevator, July 15,1887.
               
                     amulets worn by primitive peoples to ward off disease would
                    probably agree that the statement was correct. Another widely circulated bit of blank verse designed
                    to promote the sale of a popular child remedy was as follows: 
                        When baby was sick, we gave her Castoria When she was a Child, she cried for Castoria When
                            she became Miss, she clung to Castoria When she had Children, she gave them Castoria.5
                  
                     The constant repetition of the name could hardly fail to impress it upon the reader and fix
                    in his mind the perennial value of the medicine though on one occasion an over particular Victorian
                    was heard to remark that some mention of a change in "Baby's" marital
                    status should have been indicated prior to the last line!
            Other makers of patent medicines also essayed verse in bringing their wares to the attention of the
                    ailing public as the following:
                        Little spells of fever Little chills so bland Make the mighty graveyard And the angel band. A
                            little Cheatham's Chill Tonic Taken now and then Makes the handsome women And the
                            healthy men.6
                  
                    
            
            There is some evidence that manufacturers of so-called "patent medicines" made an
                    earnest and concerted effort in the eighties and nineties to induce people to substitute such
                    preparations for the old time home remedies of earlier years. Certainly the volume of advertising
                    increased enormously no doubt in part due to the fact that the number of newspaper readers grew
                    rapidly as many additional periodicals were established and the older ones greatly increased their
                    circulation. Makers of numerous proprietary medicines in virtually all of these local newspapers so
                    almost any one of them is typical of a hundred others all of which carried the same advertising
                    matter. The Fort Smith Elevator, a four-page weekly periodical, in its issue of
                    July 15, 1887, carried nineteen 
                  
                     5
                            Harper's Weekly (62 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1857–1916), XXXII, 838 (November 3, 1888). Also Fort Smith, 
                                Arkansas
                            , Elevator, January 15, 1895, and many other periodicals of
                            this time.
                  
                     6 Fort Smith, 
                                Arkansas
                            , Elevator, September 13, 1889.
               
                     advertisements for as many different remedies including two on
                    the front page. Among these medicines were Castoria, Ague Busters, Ayers Sarsaparilla, Prickly Ash
                    Bitters, Dr. King's New Discovery (for consumption), Botanic Blood Balm,
                    Dromgoole's English Female Bitters, Mer-rell's Penetrating Oil, Tansy Capsules, 
                        Shiloh
                    's Vitalizer, and Spark's Blackberry Balsam.
            Several of these had disappeared from the pages of this newspaper two years later but there were many
                    new ones including "Malarion," "Arkansaw's Own Famous Liver
                    Remedy," Morley's T-X-S Ague Tonic, Dr. Haine's Golden Specific to cure
                    the liquor habit, Hunt's Cure for Itch, Clarke's Flax Salve, Syrup of Figs, and
                    some others.7 Some six years later the names of most of these had vanished from
                    the pages of the Elevator and had been replaced by a whole crop of new ones.
            The issues of 1895 each usually carried about twenty-five patent medicine advertisements including
                    those for Dr. Pierce's Golden Medical Discovery, 
                        Brown
                    's Iron Bitters, Ozmantis Oriental Pills, Mother's Friend, Plantation
                    Chill Cure, Dr. Green's Onion Syrup, Herbine, Nerve Seeds, Dr. Miles Heart Cure,
                    Karl's Clover Root, 
                        Shiloh
                    's Catarrh Remedy, Electric Bitters, Ballard's Horehound Syrup, and
                    Solalium Carolinense for the cure of fits.8 These ads together with those of
                    doctors and dentists occupy approximately one-fourth of some pages of the paper.
            It was not only in the small town weeklies, however, that vendors of remedies and medical appliances
                    advertised their wares. The 
                        St. Louis
                    
                    Globe Democrat carried on its front page advertisements of Nerve Beans,
                    Swayne's Ointment, Bile Beans, and Dr. Owen's Electric Belt and
                    Suspensory." The last named was a contraption consisting of a number of metal disks strung
                    on a leather strap. It was worn about the waist next to the skin and was alleged to "cure
                    rheumatic complaints, lumbago, general and nervous debility, kidney disease, nervousness, trembling,
                    wasting of the body, etc." The electric belt proved so popular that an enterprising
                    manufacturer designed and placed on sale an "electric ring" 
                  
                            7
                            Ibid
                        
                  
                     8
                     Ibid., January 11, 1895. The last named was made by
                            a doctor in 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     9 St Louis, 
                                Missouri
                            , Globe Democrat, November 29, 1890.
               
                     which when worn on the finger was guaranteed to have the same
                    curative properties as did the cumbersome and uncomfortable belt, which was probably true. Harper's Weekly also advertised proprietary medicines including Dr.
                    Scott's Electric Plaster described as "combining electro-magnetism with all of the
                    best features of standard porous and other plasters." It was said to cure colds, coughs,
                    chest pains; nervous, muscular and rheumatic pains; stomach, kidney, and liver pains; dyspeptic,
                    malarial and other pains; rheumatism, gout, and inflammation," and the advertiser asserted
                    that:
            
                    "They who suffer ache and pain, Need suffer never more again."10
               
                
            Even trade and technical journals of the 1890's carried advertisements of proprietary
                    medicines. The monthly Nation' al Detective and Police Review published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     advertised Carter's Relief for Women, Cancer Cure, and Rupture Cure.11 Many of the medical preparations so widely advertised were made in 
                        New York
                     but others were manufactured in 
                  Indianapolis, Buffalo, St. Louis, Chattanooga
               , and various other cities and a few were made in smaller
                    cities and had a considerable local sale.
            Most manufacturers of the patent medicines most widely distributed realized that a large part of the
                    frontier population did not in their own language "take a paper." This was
                    especially true of the less literate people to whom the purveyors of such preparations looked for a
                    large part of their customers. In consequence, many such manufacturers published an almanac for
                    distribution through the mails or local drug stores. These were of the type of the old Farmer's Almanac established in 1793 by Robert B. Thomas and published in recent
                    years by Little, 
                        Brown
                     and Company of 
                        Boston
                    .12 Like their ancestor, these almanacs contained a calendar,
                    astronomical calculations, the names and characters 
                  
                     10
                     'Harper's Weekly, XXXII, 740 (September
                            29, 1888)
                  
                     11
                            National Detective and Police Review (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana), VI, August, 1897. Presumably the publication began in 1892. It was
                            listed in the 
                        
                                    Indianapolis City
                                 Directory for 1894 and 1895 as the National
                            Detective and from 1897 to 1907 as the National Detective and Police
                                Review, but does not appear after 1907. It is not listed in the Union
                                List of Serials in Libraries of the 
                                    United States
                                 and 
                                    Canada
                                
                      edited by Winifred Gregory.
                  
                     12 See George L. Kittredge, The Old Farmer and His
                                Almanack (
                        Cambridge, Massachusetts
                     , 1920).
               
                     of the signs of the Zodiac, the dates of holidays, and much
                    miscellaneous material including household hints, weather forecasts, recipes, advice to farmers, and
                    jokes and anecdotes. On every page, however, the virtures of the remedy were proclaimed in type that
                    could hardly fail to catch the reader's eye. Advertising was yet in its infancy and modern
                    techniques of making the product offered only incidental to the picture of a dizzy blonde in
                    abbreviated costume had not been discovered. The cover of the almanac carried a picture but it was
                    always one designed to fix the attention of the reader upon the remedy. Sometimes it depicted St.
                    George plainly labeled as the medicine, slaying the dragon of disease. Among the pioneers the belief
                    was common that the Indians had much medical lore especially with respect to the curative properties
                    of certain roots and herbs. The cover of one popular almanac pictured an Indian woman pointing to a
                    growing plant and exclaiming to her white sister bowed down with suffering, "The Great
                    Spirit planted it!"
            Doctors, except in the towns, were few and far between and most of them had little to recommend them
                    except imposing whiskers and an impressive bedside manner. Yet they made up for their lack of
                    medical skill and scientific knowledge by an enormous energy and conscientious devotion to duty. In
                    sub-zero weather, often through sleet and snow, they traveled many miles in open buggies or on
                    horseback to relieve suffering and minister to those in need of help. They brought to many a
                    household comfort and hope and uncomplainingly made enormous sacrifices and endured frightful
                    hardships to give their poor best to suffering humanity. To them the people of America owe a heavy
                    debt of gratitude.
            This scarcity of physicians was obviously responsible for the rapid increase in the sale of
                    proprietary remedies or "mail order" medical treatment. It was also responsible
                    for the early appearance of the traveling doctor with his "medicine show," an
                    institution which was continued well down into the twentieth century. Usually he was a somewhat
                    corpulent individual in striped trousers, a Prince Albert coat, white shirt, and black string tie
                    who appeared on the streets of a western village just after sundown in a large flat truck drawn by
                    two white horses with silver mounted harness. Sitting in chairs on the truck were two or three
                    black-faced comedians vigorously playing a violin and a banjo, 
                    guitar, or accordion. Stopping at the most prominent street corner, these black-faced boys would
                    burst into song and continue until a considerable crowd had gathered. Then the
                    "Doctor" would stand and in a deep, sonorous voice begin his speech:
            "Ladies and Gentlemen: I am traveling about over the country trying to bring aid to
                    suffering humanity. We have not come out here this evening to try to sell you anything but only that
                    we may all have a good time–" "Yum, yum," would interpose one
                    of the comedians, "Ain't we a-gwine hab a good timel"
                    "Shut up, Sam," the doctor would exclaim. "Now, folks, we are not
                    interested in making money or selling you something but only in helping you to feel better and in
                    curing any ailments you may have. I look at you men standing there and I can see that some of you
                    have a dull ache in the back, and twinges of pain in your shoulders and legs." The villager
                    who had worked at a forge all day sharpening plows, or shoeing horses, and the farmers who had hoed
                    corn since sunrise and then dropped over to town to do an errand would look at one another and nod
                    knowingly. It took no great stretch of imagination to make them feel the dull aches and twinges so
                    aptly described by the wise doctor. Having planted the seed, the doctor proceeded to cultivate the
                    crop certain of a reasonably bountiful harvest. "Now, men," he would continue,
                    "In my laboratories at home I've worked for years hoping to find a preparation
                    that would cure cases just like yours and at last I found it. Here it is, gentlemen, Dr.
                    X's Marvelous Elixir. Take one tablespoon-ful and that dull ache will vanish as if by magic
                    and if you'll take a dose night and morning for three weeks, I'll guarantee that
                    it will never come back. You'll have a better appetite, feel better than ever before in
                    your life, and be able to do a full day's work without that run-down, wornout feeling you
                    now have. Only a dollar a bottle for anybody that wants one and you'll say it's
                    the biggest dollar's worth you ever saw in your lives. Step right up, gentlemen,
                    who'll be first?"
            After one or two had stepped forward and rather sheepishly tendered a dollar, the contagion grew and
                    there was likely to be a rush to exchange dollars for bottles of the Elixir. When sales began to
                    fall off, a brief recess was held and the black-face boys played again and sang more songs while
                    others joined the little crowd. Then sales were resumed  and
                    continued until all customers had been supplied after which one of the boys mounted to the
                    driver's seat and, with the others gaily singing and playing, the truck was driven to the
                    camping place that had been selected just beyond the edge of town27
            There were of course many variations. Some proprietors of medicine shows dispensed several remedies
                    including liniments, salves, an "inhaler" for catarrh and colds in the head, or
                    soap "made from the roots of the Mexican yucca." There were also traveling
                    "corn doctors" who usually displayed a large box of corns and calluses taken from
                    the feet of former customers. It is doubtful if the preparations sold by these itinerant shows had
                    any curative effects but they at least gave to those who "enjoyed poor health" a
                    new remedy to try and the entertainment features brought a little color and excitement to drab and
                    monotonous lives.
            Dentists were even more rare on the frontier than were general practitioners, though one or two could
                    usually be found at the more important towns. They advertised extensively in the local newspapers
                    offering their services at prices that would shock present day members of the profession.
                    "A fine set of false teeth" was offered for eight dollars and teeth would be
                    extracted "without pain" at twenty-five cents each.13 Outside
                    the larger towns, however, people paid virtually no attention to their teeth unless one began to
                    ache. Then a hot poultice would be applied to the jaw or a cavity stuffed with a bit of cotton
                    soaked in laudanum or some form of "toothache drops." The loose milk tooth of a
                    child was pulled by the father or mother with the fingers or yanked out by looping a bit of thread
                    about it and giving a quick jerk or tying one end of the thread to the open door and suddenly
                    closing it. The youngster was always told that if he did not put his tongue into the vacant space a
                    gold tooth would grow there but never found it possible to test the truth of this assertion. If an
                    adult's aching tooth could not be eased by poultices or medicated cotton, it was sometimes
                    knocked out with a chisel or screwdriver and hammer, or pulled by means of a pair of bullet molds in
                    the hands of a husky neighbor.14
            
            
               
                  13 Fort Smith, 
                            Arkansas
                        , Elevator, January 11, 1895.
               
                  14 Statement of J. M. Ferris, Navajoe, 
                            Oklahoma
                        .
            
            
            A traveling dentist equipped with a small case of tools of his craft would sometimes appear in a
                    community but he seldom did more than pull bad teeth and give some advice as to the care of those
                    left. When an individual had very few teeth left, eating became a serious problem but many managed
                    to struggle along with surprisingly few. There is an ancient story to the effect that one old lady
                    at an experience meeting expressed her thanks to the Lord that she still had "two teeth
                    left and they hit."
            When false teeth became absolutely necessary, a trip was made to the nearest dentist which sometimes
                    required a journey of two or three days. Once there, impressions were made and the patient returned
                    home to receive his teeth two or three weeks later by mail. Naturally they seldom fit well and were
                    usually worn in a pocket most of the time and placed in the mouth only when required for eating or
                    when visitors appeared.
            In addition to traveling doctors and dentists, spectacle salesmen also peddled their wares throughout
                    many frontier areas and persons with failing eyesight fitted themselves with glasses by the simple
                    method of trying on a number of pairs and choosing the one with which they could see best. There is
                    an old story to the effect that one such salesman stopped at a country store in the Ozark Mountain
                    region on a Saturday afternoon and, observing that nearly every man of the considerable number of
                    loafers assembled there had a red mark across the bridge of his nose, was very hopeful of doing a
                    big business. To his disappointment, however, he was solemnly informed that none of these men had
                    ever worn glasses but had acquired these marks in drinking corn whisky out of a fruit jar!
            While physicians and dentists were very few on the frontier, it was usually possible to obtain the
                    services of either if the emergency were sufficiently grave but often only after considerable delay.
                    Trained nurses, however, were unknown. Sometimes there might be found in a community a woman who
                    would care for sick people for hire but this was unusual. Such a woman would today be called a
                    "practical nurse" but it must be admitted that if one of these could be found on
                    the frontier, she was as a rule, to paraphrase Voltaire, "neither practical nor a
                    nurse." At best she was only a person with considerable experience in the sick room  who was willing to come into a home and work on a twenty-four
                    hour shift for the duration of the emergency getting what sleep or recreation she could when
                    relieved by relatives or friends of the patient.
            Of professional nursing, however, there was virtually none. A sick person was cared for by members of
                    his family and kindly neighbors who were always ready and willing to lend assistance.
                    "Sitting up with the sick," was regarded as the plain duty of everyone if the need
                    arose and some persons achieved a local reputation as humanitarians by virtue of being "so
                    good to wait on the sick." If anyone in the community became seriously ill, it was expected
                    that his family would notify the neighbors, and any failure to do so was regarded almost as an
                    affront. It was only necessary to pass on the word of illness in a family to a very few. The
                    grapevine functioned with amazing efficiency and kindly persons hastened to call to bring special
                    dainties to tempt the patient's appetite and to offer their services to "sit
                    up" or to aid in any other possible fashion. Usually two or three would come in each
                    evening and do some quiet visiting as they watched from an adjoining room. During the day there were
                    likely to be many visitors to inquire about the situation and to sit and talk with the patient
                    unless the latter were so ill that it was deemed inadvisable to admit any
                    "company" to the sick room.
            It must be confessed that an occasional visitor to the sick might be characterized as a
                    "Job's comforter" whose influence was far from salutary. Such a person
                    would come in on tiptoe, seat himself by the bed, and after a long survey of the patient would shake
                    his head sorrowfully and remark: "You must be pretty bad, Bill; I don't like your
                    color. You look a lot like my uncle Joe did just before he passed on." If the patient
                    protested that he felt much better than he had the day before, the visitor would again shake his
                    head and continue: "Yes, Uncle Joe did, too. He rallied a little right at the last and then
                    all at once went out just like a light." By the time the pessimistic individual had at last
                    departed, the patient was likely to be in a cold sweat of fear and to feel that at any minute he
                    might begin "picking at the cover," which among pioneer peoples was regarded as a
                    sure sign of impending death.
            
            Fortunately such gloomy visitors were very few. Most persons who came to call upon the sick brought
                    not only food and flowers, and help to the overburdened family but something even more
                    important–cheerfulness and sunshine and a breath of the pure air of the world outside.
                    Among a people who lacked all modern facilities for the care of the suffering the kindly helpfulness
                    of friends and neighbors robbed illness of much of its terror for the patient and his family alike.
                    Many a person at last rose from a sick bed with a heart filled with gratitude for many favors and a
                    spirit humbled and chastened by the knowledge that so many whom he had formerly regarded with
                    indifference had, in his hour of need, proved themselves true and devoted friends. Undoubtedly
                    illness often served to strengthen the bonds of friendship and helped to promote that neighborly
                    feeling and community consciousness so characteristic of the American pioneers.
            With the passing of the years, the old frontier days and ways began to disappear. Manners and customs
                    were changing and this was as apparent in medical practices as in everything else. The coming of
                    railroads brought in a larger population, towns grew up, and with economic advancement more
                    physicians came in to open offices and begin a medical practice. They were, moreover, men of far
                    more training and skill, in most cases, than had been the old-time frontier doctors. Hospitals
                    supplied with modern e quipment were established. Graduate nurses became available. The old home
                    remedies gave way to the prescriptions of physicians and even the rage for patent medicines began to
                    abate as scientific investigations were made proving many of them worthless. Some standard remedies
                    are still sold but many preparations disappeared from the market and the sale of others was far less
                    than formerly, though weekly and daily newspapers still advertise some proprietary medicines. New
                    remedies appeared on the shelves of the pharmacies and new treatments of disease were evolved. In
                    addition many of the ailments that had formerly afflicted the pioneers have largely disappeared.
            Only in a few backward communities do the old medical practices still persist in the nature of
                    "fossil remains" of customs that half a century or more ago were virtually
                    universal, at least in the rural districts of most states west of  the 
                        Mississippi
                     River and in many east of that stream. A long and intensive study of the medical
                    practices of the American people in the West during the past three-quarters of a century and of how
                    they have changed would undoubtedly produce a worthwhile contribution to the field of social
                    history.
         
         
         
            The English Settlement in Southern 
                        Illinois
                    , 1815–1825
            
                    Jane Rodman
                    ⋆
                
            The year 1815 brought the promise of a new era of peace to 
                        England
                    –a promise which was incapable of immediate fulfillment. Then ensued a
                    readjustment of economic and political life, inevitable after a prolonged war. During the postwar
                    depression, economic conditions, particularly agricultural ones, became increasingly worse.
                    "Tenants could not pay their rents; landlords were straightened; farmers who had taken
                    leases, under high prices of grain, were losing money by wholesale. Laborers' wages were diminished;
                    some were wholly unemployed, and many had to receive parochial relief. The poor rates increased
                    another tax on the already-embarrassed farmer."1
            
            Because they saw no hope of the situation becoming brighter in 
                        England
                     on account of the reactionary Tory political control, many farmers and farm laborers
                    began to look for a country to which they might emigrate. John McGregor wrote that the causes of
                    emigration were "chiefly poverty, dissatisfaction in respect to public measures, or
                    ambition." Elaborating farther, he suggested that the "majority of those who
                    emigrate to America, are driven abroad by the goadings of poverty; another class is formed of
                    adventurous men, who go to seek fortunes… ; a third class is composed of men of
                    genius…whose hopes have been blighted at home; and a fourth class includes individuals
                    who are not only discontented with their condition…but displeased also with public
                    measures. … "2
            
            
               
                  ⋆ Jane Rodman is research assistant to R. Carlyle Buley,
                        professor of history at Indiana University. This article is a revised chapter of a
                        master's thesis at Indiana University, 1947, which was written under the direction of
                        John D. Barnhart.
               
                  1 George Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards
                            County, 
                                Illinois
                            
                  , in 
                            Chicago
                         Historical Society Collections (12 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1882–1928), I, 27. Flower and Morris Birkbeck were the founders of the
                        settlement in southern 
                            Illinois
                         in 1817–1818. Chapter IV of Marcus L. Hansen, The Atlantic
                            Migration, 1607–1860 (
                     Cambridge, Massachusetts
                  ,
                        1945), is a good secondary account summarizing the conditions in 
                            England
                         and the emigration of this period.
               
                  2 John McGregor, British America (2 vols., Edinburgh,
                        1832), I, 441. Regarding the charge of poverty as a cause of emigration, it should be noted that
                        only "very respectable" and substantial small farmers could defray the costs
                        of transportation across the Atlantic.
            
            
            One commentator, alarmed at the number of emigrants to the 
                        United States
                    , concluded that the main inducement to emigration arose from "political
                    prejudice and animosity." Many assumed the character of "republican, and, under
                    professions of great zeal for the rights of man," forsook 
                        England
                     for the 
                        United States
                    . In addition to political theorists, he noted that "sanguine
                    speculators," visionary experimentalists in agriculture," and not a few who had
                    "been exposed to the justice of its [
                        England
                    's] laws" were among the emigrants.3
            
            A man who found himself attacked by opponents of emigration because of his somewhat over-enthusiastic
                    reports of the advantages of life in the 
                        United States
                     gave the following reasons for exchanging the condition of an English farmer for that
                    of an American proprietor: 
                        I expect to suffer many inconveniences; but I am willing to make a great sacrifice of present
                            ease, … obtaining … an exemption from that wearisome solicitude about
                            pecuniary affairs, from which even the affluent find no refuge in 
                                England
                            ; and for my children, a career of enterprize, and wholesome family connections,
                            in a society whose institutions are favourable to virtue; and at last the consolation of
                            leaving them efficient members of a flourishing, public-spirited, energetic community, where
                            the insolence of wealth, and the servility of pauperism, between which, in 
                                England
                            , there is scarcely an interval remaining, are alike unknown.4
                  
                    
            
            
               The fear of poverty would be a more correct statement. American newspapers congratulated the 
                            United States
                         upon the superior quality of the emigrants. Niles' Weekly
                        Register (
                     Baltimore, Maryland
                  , 1811–1837), X, 352 (July 20, 1816);
                        XI, 208 (November 23, 1816); XII, 185 (May 17, 1817). Niles commented on the
                        "improving" quality of the emigrants–"it may give us a
                        greater share of the bone and sinew,– the middle class of the country." Ibid., X, 431 (August
                        24, 1816).
               
                  3 Charles F. Grece, Facts and Observations respecting 
                                Canada
                            , and the 
                                United States
                             of America (
                            London
                        , 1819), 1–2. Grece attempted to prove to emigrants that 
                            Canada
                         had far superior prospects to the 
                            United States
                        . Henry B. Fearon, while not favoring emigration, gave a more favorable estimation
                        of the type of emigrants: "Emigration had … assumed a totally new character:
                        it was no longer merely the poor, the idle, the profligate, or the wildly speculative, who were
                        proposing to quit their native country; but men also of capital, of industry, of sober habits
                        and regular pursuits, men of reflection, who apprehended approaching evils; men of upright and
                        conscientious minds, to whose happiness civil and religious liberty were essential; and men of
                        domestic feelings, who wished to provide for the future support and prosperity of their
                        offspring." Sketches of America (
                            London
                        , 1818), iv, v.
               
                  4 Morris Birkbeck, Notes on a Journey in America from the
                            Coast of 
                                Virginia
                             to the Territory of 
                                Illinois
                            
                   (
                            London
                        , 1818), 5. William Faux, no supporter of Birkbeck's plan of settlement,
                        commented upon his unparalleled ability to entice English emigrants to the 
                            Illinois
                        :
            
            
            Morris Birkbeck was disturbed by the lack of "political existence" of English
                    farmers. He asserted that their rights were the same as the earlier "Villeins."
                    The farmers had only to pay their taxes with no political rights or duties.
            Birkbeck summarized the "hard times" in 
                        England
                    .
            
                    A nation, with half its population supported by alms, or poor-rates, and one fourth of its income
                        derived from taxes, many of which are dried up in their sources, or speedily becoming so, must
                        teem with emigrants from one end to the other: and, for such as myself, who have had
                        "nothing to do with the laws but to obey them," it is quite reasonable and
                        just to secure a timely retreat from the approaching crisis–either of anarchy or
                            despotism.5
               
                
            William Hall, a member of the small-farmer class whose loss by emigration was noted with much regret
                    both in books and newspapers, listed his reasons for quitting 
                        England
                     in 1821 as follows: 
                        1st. The difficulty of providing for the numerous Family with which God has blessed me
                            & the prospect of removing that load of Care & Anxiety which fills the
                            Breasts of Parents on that Account6
                  
                        2d To escape with them from that Aggregation of Oppression, Tyranny, Hypocrisy, &
                            Misery which prevailed in 
                                England
                             .…
                        3 The proud hope of establishing my family in Freedom & Independence, ... of living
                            in the complete enjoyment of Civil & religious Liberty.
                        4th The gratifying prospect of pointing out the same road to my distressed Friends &
                            relation by which they might also make their escape .…
                        5th. That as there could be no prospect of amelioration in 
                                England
                             without a total subversion of all the existing relations of society &
                            Government the convulsion caused by such a change would almost 
                        "No man, since 
                                        Columbus
                                    , has done so much toward peopling America as Mr. Birkbeck, whose
                                    publications, and the authority of whose name, had effects truly prodigious; and if
                                    all could have settled in 
                                        Illinois
                                    , whom he had tempted to cross the Atlantic and the mountains, it had
                                    now been the most populous state in the Union. America, and the western country
                                    generally, are benefitted by and indebted to him." Memorable
                                        Days in America (
                                        London
                                    , 1823), 298. Fearon discussed Birkbeck's reasons for
                                    emigration in his attack upon the settlement. "These are conclusions
                                    … exactly such as a iman versed in theoretic speculations upon the nature
                                    of society would arrive at, when contemplating a country like this. … But
                                    I am sorry to say, that a very brief residence in America will most effectually
                                    dispel the charm. …" He wondered why it was "that the
                                    people of 
                                        England
                                     are so much in advance of their government; and why, on the other hand,
                                    the people of America remain so very far behind the principles upon which their political system is founded." Sketches
                                        in America, 415–417.
                        
                           5 Birkbeck, Notes on a Journey in America,
                                    4–5.
                        
                           6 Isaac Holmes likewise suggested that a substantial advantage
                                    of the American farmer was in the future prospect of his family whereas
                     
                             to a certainty involve persons in my situation in total
                            destruction & all the horrors of civil war … 7
                  
                    
            
            Hezekiah Niles recorded the story of a Yorkshireman, who with his large family traveled from 
                        New York
                     to 
                        Ohio
                    . On the way, he asked the laborers how many meals they ate in a day. All replied three
                    and some four. The Yorkshireman, accustomed to two scanty meals in 
                        England
                    , was further astonished to be invited by many of these laborers to eat with them.
                    "What a field for reflection. … What American would have
                    thought of enquiring, how many meals the working people eat in a day ?
                    But this was the first thing the poor Englishman thought of, and he had done it ‘all along the road,’ to be convinced of the truth of the matter.
                        …"8
            
            Niles noted that the British newspapers teemed with notices of emigration. The emigrants were
                    "chiefly farmers and mechanics to add to the labor, and of consequence increase the wealth
                    of our country in peace. …"One 
                        London
                     newspaper had become alarmed at the continued and increasing emigration to
                    America–"this serious drain of the most useful part of the population of the
                    united kingdom. … "9 " ‘It is
                    incredible,’ says the Globe, ‘in the small provincial towns
                    throughout 
                        England
                    , what a number of decent and respectable familes have sunk through the distresses of
                    the times, and enormous weight of taxation, into bankruptcy and obscurity.’ "
                    Niles summarized the situation patriotically: "Such is the state of the country, and such
                    are the people whom the well-fed hirelings blame for a wish to change the glorious and expensive
                    constitution of 
                        England
                    , for the rude but plentiful democracy of America."10
            
            
               in Great Britain the farmer looked forward with little hope. An Account of the 
                                United States
                             of America (
                            London
                        , 1823), iii-iv.
               
                  7 A manuscript copy of the journal of William Hall, who settled near
                        Birkbeck in southern 
                            Illinois
                        , in the 
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Library at 
                            Springfield
                         was used by the author of this article. It recently was published: "From 
                            England
                         to 
                            Illinois
                         in 1821: The Journal of William Hall," edited by Jay Monaghan, Journal of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society (
                     Springfield, Illinois
                  ,
                        1908- ), XXXIX (1946), 21–67; 208–253.
               
                  8
                        Niles' Weekly Register, X, 419 (August 24, 1816).
               
                  9
                  Ibid., X, 366, 412 (July 27 and August 17, 1816). Niles
                        estimated the number of emigrants in 1817 to be 30,000, of which 20,000 were from the British
                        Isles. Ibid., XIII, 35–36 (September 13, 1817).
               
                  10
                        Ibid., X, 408 (August 17,1816).
            
            
            Interest in America as a place for immigration had been aroused by various sources.
                    Birkbeck's enthusiastic books, Notes on a Journey in America and Letters from 
                            Illinois
                        
               , the former having eleven editions and the latter seven in the course of three
                    years, stimulated interest in the possibilities of the West. Many travelers and emigrants published
                    journals of their experiences in America. The importance of personal letters from relatives and
                    friends in America cannot be overemphasized. The advantages of land, labor, and liberty in the New
                    World, knowledge of which was gained from personal letters passed from hand to hand, became
                    everywhere a topic of village conversation.11
            
            What did the emigrant see in the 
                        United States
                     which would cause him to leave his home in 
                        England
                    ? The principal advantages of the 
                        United States
                     were said to be: 
                        1st. The legislators emanate from, and are really appointed by the people.
                            … The laws are made not to favour this or that particular class, but, for the
                            public good: the public good including the benefit of all. …
                        2d. They have no established church to tythe the produce of their labours. …
                        3d. The American farmers need not, and therefore do not pay immense sums to hereditary Dukes,
                            Lords, &c. for permission to till the soil. …
                        4th. In the 
                                United States
                             there are no game laws: but all have an equal right to the spontaneous
                            productions of nature. … The benefit from these circumstances was that there were
                            no extremes of classes, but a mutual esteem was felt by all.12
                  
                    
            
            William Kingdom, Junior, was cenvinced that the colonies of Great Britain contained more attractions
                    for settlers than the 
                        United States
                    . He reminded his readers that in America the emigrant had to purchase land while in the
                    colonies he obtained it free. The advocates of emigration to the 
                        United States
                     impressed upon the public the knowledge that there were no game laws, tithes, nor heavy
                    taxes, but the colonies had the same advantages. Why then did nine-tenths of the British emigrants
                    choose the 
                        United States
                    ? "If we take into consideration the state of the major part of the
                    emigrants, as well as the chief cause of their emigrating, we learn that nearly the whole of them
                    leave this country in debt. ... In 
                  
                     11 Hansen, Atlantic Migration, 81–82.
                  
                     12 John Knight, The Emigrant's Best
                            Instructor (
                                London
                            , 1818), 3–4. His book consists largely of selections from accounts
                            of travelers, such as, Bradbury, Hulme, 
                                Brown
                            , and Birkbeck.
               
                     America, a man thus situated is safe; but not so in our
                    colonies." There his creditors could seize his property even after he had spent several
                    years improving it. "For a man to think of settling in the British colonies, with this
                    prospect in view, would be madness.… "13
            
            Some emigrants were attracted to the 
                        United States
                     by a regard for its form of government. 
                        To persons of fastidious tastes, the 
                                United States
                             … seemed to be the only country … for emigration. What
                            added much to the character of the 
                                United States
                            , in the eyes of the people of Europe, was the judicious choice of her first
                            ambassadors to the courts of Europe. What must not that nation be, that could send such men
                            as 
                                Franklin
                             and Jefferson to 
                                France
                            , Adams and King to Great Britain?14
                  
                     Many who came for this reason, however, expressed disillusionment in the American
                    government as they observed its operation. George Flower, one of this group, agreed with Kingdom and
                    others, in making a conclusion concerning the real benefit of removal to the 
                        United States
                    .
            
                    The practical liberty of America is found in its great space and small population. Good land
                        dog-cheap everywhere, and for nothing, if you will go far enough for it, gives as much
                        elbow-room to every man as he chooses to take. Poor laborers, from every country in Europe, hear
                        of this cheap land, are attracted towards it, perhaps without any political opinions. They come,
                        they toil, they prosper.15
               
                
            Another emigrant who highly regarded the republican government of the 
                        United States
                     was Morris Birkbeck. He was named for his father who was an emigrant 
                        Quaker
                     preacher in 
                        England
                    . Although not wealthy, the father was able to give his son an excellent classical
                    education. Morris, the younger, was said to have a thorough knowledge of Latin, and a slight
                    acquaintance with Greek. At an early age, he 
                  
                     13 William Kingdom, Jr., America and the British
                            Colonies (
                                London
                            , 1820), 32, 327–328.
                  
                     14 Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards
                                County, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society Collections, I, 27–28.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 29. Flower expressed much the same thought in his Errors of Emigrants (
                                London
                            , 1841), 19. On page 28 of this book, he doubted the ability of emigrants to
                            become wealthy in the 
                                United States
                            : "America generally, and the Western country particularly, although
                            the easiest countries in the world to live in, are the worst in the world to make a fortune
                            in." Another writer agreed that America was a haven for laborers. "America
                            is the land of labour; but it is the best country on earth for those who will labour at some
                            useful employment–It is one of the worst for idlers, or for those whose
                            employment is of no use." John Melish, Information and Advice to
                                Emigrants to the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1819), 8.
               
                     became a clerk at the Friends' meeting, thereby acquiring a
                    facility for writing and a passion for arranging documents systematically. His father placed him on
                    a farm to enable him to learn the farming vocation. Later, to make his own beginning, Morris
                    Birkbeck rented a farm, borrowing the capital from a friend. Working assiduously on this venture, he
                    said that "when he took stock, after valuing everything he possessed, even his books and
                    clothes, he found himself worse than nothing."16 Successful in this and
                    later enterprises, he was able to take a long lease on a large farm called Wan-borough, located in
                    the county of Surrey. It contained 1500 acres of land. Here he reared a family of four sons and
                    three daughters. The farm of Wanborough was a hamlet entailing certain duties upon its proprietor.
                    "The owner of a hamlet is a potentate on a small scale, brought into immediate contact with
                    its poor inhabitants, who, by the laws of 
                        England
                    , he is bound to aid in sickness or want, by advice and material
                    assistance.""
            When George Flower first met Birkbeck, the latter was a widower of more than fifty years of age and
                    in excellent health. 
                        In person he was below middle stature–rather small, spare, not fleshy, but
                            muscular and wiry. … His bodily frame was strengthened and seasoned by early
                            labor and horseback exercise in the open air. … He was capable of undergoing
                            great fatigue, and of enduring fatigue without injury. His complexion was bronzed from
                            exposure; face marked with many lines; rather sharp features, lighted by a quick twinkling
                            eye; and rapid utterance. He was originally of an irascible temper, which was subdued by his 
                                Quaker
                             breeding, and kept under control by watchfulness and care.
                     Often he would "sit for hours in the afternoon…his only companions a
                    long-stemmed clay-pipe and a glass of water on the table beside him. The little artificial thirst,
                    occasioned by smoking, when habitually allayed by mixed-liquors, or any thing stronger than water,
                    he thought had betrayed into habits of intemperance, unsuspectingly, more individuals than any other
                    single cause."18
            
            
               
                  16 Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards
                            County, 
                                Illinois
                            
                  , 
                            Chicago
                         Historical Society Collections, I, 20.
               
                  17
                        Ibid., 20–21.
               
                  18
                        Ibid., 21–22. An English emigrant living in 
                            Lexington
                         described Birkbeck as he saw him in June, 1819. "I would prefer Brikbeck
                        for a neighbour, dressed up, as he is, in a little mean chip hat, and coarse domestic clothes
                        from Harmony, living in a little log-house, smoking segars, and drinking bad whiskey, just as I
                        found him, rough as he was." Faux, Memorable Days in America,
                    195.
            
            
            Flower described Birkbeck as a man "of quick perception and lively conversation, often
                    spiced with pungent remarks and amusing anecdotes. He was a general and rapid reader,
                    and…showed a decided taste for scientific investigation." He had ceased
                    attending 
                        Quaker
                     meetings for many years. "Neither did he in dress conform to the peculiar garb
                    of the Society. ... He did not consider himself as belonging to the Society of Friends";
                    Flower was not certain that he had ever been formally disowned.19
            
            In 1814 the two friends made a tour of 
                        France
                    . They saw much of the peasantry and sometimes met a celebrity. The most famous was
                    General 
                        Lafayette
                    . Upon their return, Morris Birkbeck wrote an account of their travels. It had a wide
                    circulation both in 
                        England
                     and America. Flower recalled that it was the first book he saw at 
                        Monticello
                     when he visited Thomas Jefferson.20
            
            Returning to America upon completion of a diplomatic mission to Russia, Edward Coles stopped in 
                        England
                     to visit friends. Introduced to Birkbeck, he received an invitation to visit
                    Wanborough. Here a friendship was formed which lasted until Birkbeck's death in 1825. About
                    this time Birkbeck was making his plans to leave 
                        England
                    . The lease on his farm was soon to expire. He was experiencing, in common with other
                    farmers, losses from the low price of farm produce, a sign of the depressed agricultural situation
                    following the war. Flower was traveling in America, occasionally corresponding with him; but
                    completely unaware of his decision to emigrate.
            George Flower had decided to visit America in 1816. His journey was undertaken from many motives; two
                    of which he mentioned–the disturbed condition of the English farming class and his
                    interest in the 
                        United States
                     and its government. Landing at 
                        New York
                     in April, he proceeded to 
                        Philadelphia
                    , where he became acquainted with John Vaughan, "an active
                    philanthropist," and the French naturalist, Charles Lesueur. After a visit of six weeks,
                    Flower determined to make a tour of western America on horseback.
            His journey took him to 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and across the state 
                  
                     19 Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards
                                County, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , in 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society Collections, I, 25–26.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 24. Morris Birkbeck, Notes of a Journey through 
                                    France
                                
                      (
                                London
                            , 1814).
               
                     of 
                        Ohio
                     through 
                        Chillicothe
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                    .21 At the latter place, he inquired without success for information
                    concerning the prairies about which he had read in Imlay's book.22
                    Flower, who considered remaining in America, shrank from the idea of settling in the midst of a
                    heavy timber, "to hack and hew my way to a little farm, ever bounded by a wall of gloomy
                        forest."23 From 
                        Cincinnati
                     he journeyed to 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , to visit Governor Isaac 
                        Shelby
                     and his family. The brother of 
                        Shelby
                     had just returned from a visit to a settlement on the 
                        Mississippi
                     by way of the prairies of southern 
                        Illinois
                     and thereby confirmed their existence. Flower expressed his satisfaction. "I
                    felt assured of where they were, and that, when sought for, they could be found."24 Since it was October, he postponed their exploration. Instead he turned south
                    and east in an attempt to reach Poplar Forest, an estate owned by Thomas Jefferson near Lynchburg in
                    western 
                        Virginia
                    , sometime in December.25 At a 
                        Nashville
                     horse race he had his first glimpse of Andrew Jackson. He noted that Jackson was
                    "lean and lank, bronzed in complexion," with "deep-marked countenance,
                    grizzly-gray hair, and a restless and fiery eye. … General Jackson was a whole man in
                    anything he undertook. … The recklessness of his bets, his violent gesticulations and
                    imprecations outdid all competition."26
            
            Jefferson welcomed George Flower at the Poplar Forest estate. "His house was built after the
                    fashion of a French chateau. Octagon rooms, floors of polished oak, lofty ceilings, large mirrors,
                    betokened his French taste. …" Flower recorded a description of Thomas Jefferson
                    in 1816. His "figure 
                  
                     21 Flower commented particularly upon the little town of Jefferson
                            near 
                                Chillicothe
                            . He described it as "nothing more than half-a-dozen log-cabins,
                            interspersed with corn-cribs. Not a garden, nor a decent house, nor a sober man to be found
                            in the place." History of the English Settlement in Edwards County, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society Collections, I, 35.
                  
                     22 Gilbert Imlay, A Topographical Description of the
                                Western Territory of North America (
                                London
                            , 1792).
                  
                     23 Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards
                                County, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society Collections, I, 36.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., 38.
                  
                     25 Before his departure from 
                                England
                            , George Flower had obtained from 
                                Lafayette
                             a letter of introduction to Thomas Jefferson. In 
                                New York
                             he wrote to Jefferson and received an invitation to visit 
                                Monticello
                            .
                  
                     26 Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards
                                County, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society Collections, I, 39.
               
                     was rather majestic: tall (over six feet), thin, and rather
                    high-shouldered; manners, simple, kind, and courteous. His dress, in color and form, was quaint and
                    old-fashioned, plain and neat–a dark pepper-and-salt coat, cut in the old quaker fashion,
                    with a single row of large metal buttons, knee-breeches, gray-worsted stockings, shoes fastened by
                    large metal buckles. … "27 The greater part of the winter
                    was passed at 
                        Monticello
                    ; Flower particularly enjoyed his evening conversations with Jefferson.
            In March, George Flower attended the inauguration of James 
                        Monroe
                    . At the home of James 
                        Madison
                     in 
                        Washington
                    , he met Edward Coles, just returned from 
                        England
                    . After a nine months' absence and a journey of ten thousand miles, Flower now returned
                    to 
                        Philadelphia
                    . He was undecided whether to return to 
                        England
                     or to prolong his visit. In June, he received a letter informing him that Birkbeck and
                    his family had arrived in America and were in 
                        Richmond
                    .
            Hastening there, he joined the group of nine persons:28 Morris Birkbeck,
                    fifty-four years old, his second son Bradford, sixteen, his third son Charles, fourteen, a
                    servant-boy "Gillard," thirteen, Elias Pym Fordham, a cousin of George Flower and
                    the same age–twenty-nine; the women of the group, Eliza Birkbeck, nineteen, Prudence
                    Birkbeck, sixteen, Eliza Julia Andrews, twenty-five,28 and a little orphan girl
                    Elizabeth Garton.
            Where would the emigrants settle? Their choice of 
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 43–44.
                  
                     28 Flower described the good humor and buoyant spirits of the
                            emigrants. "Six of our party were under twenty, three were under thirty, and one,
                            although advanced to fifty-four, was active, intelligent, and strong. … Mr.
                            Birkbeck's daughters … were most agreeable companions. … Miss
                            Andrews, a little older, was in intellect and character more matured and of greater
                            experience in life." He wrote in 1857 that of this original group only one was
                            still living in the Settlement–the former servant-boy Gillard, who had become a
                            man of independent property. Three were dead, the other seven widely scattered.
                            "One in 
                                England
                            , two in 
                                Mexico
                            , one in 
                                Australia
                            , two in Indiana, and one in 
                                Illinois
                            . ..." Ibid., 48, 53–54.
                  
                     29 According to Flower, Eliza Julia Andrews was the daughter of the
                            Reverend Mordicah Andrews of Essex. She enjoyed a close friendship with Birkbeck's
                            daughters. While visiting them at Wanborough, she was present when the decision to emigrate
                            was made and consented to accompany them. Ibid., 47–48. Another
                            account of the inclusion of Miss Andrews, supposedly Birkbeck's version, is given
                            by Williaan Faux. The senior members of Flower's family had placed the young lady
                            in Birkbeck's family for the express purpose of effecting a marriage between her
                            and their son. Memorable Days in America, 296.
               
                     location was undetermined except that they agreed to go west of
                    the mountains. Birkbeck wrote that he had "pre-determined to pitch my tent to the westward
                    of that ridge, and to the southward of Lake 
                        Erie
                    , under a climate recommended by the concurrent testimony of all travellers, as
                    temperate, salubrious and delightful."30 He was certain that he would
                    never live where slavery prevailed. If political liberty meant so much to him that he would leave 
                        England
                    , he would not "degrade" himself by keeping slaves. Specifically,
                    their inquiries were to be confined "to the western part of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and the States of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and the territory of 
                        Illinois
                    . …"81
            
            It was agreed that Fordham was to go down the river to Norfolk with the heavy luggage and then up the
                    Chesapeake by schooner to 
                        Baltimore
                    . From there overland to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . The others left 
                        Richmond
                     on May 17 to journey to 
                        Washington
                    , McConnellstown, and 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . At the latter place the decision was made not to descend the 
                        Ohio
                     River by an ark but to explore on horseback the western territory. Flower described
                    their preparations. "Each individual of our party… was to be furnished with a
                    horse and its equipments. An underblanket for the horse, a large blanket on the seat of the saddle
                    for the rider, a pair of well-filled saddle-bags, all secured by a surcingle, a great-coat or cloak,
                    with umbrella strapped behind, completed the appointments for each person."32
            
            Fordham, shepherding the baggage, which amounted to 9,000 pounds and was contained in 70 packages,
                    commented upon his difficulties.33 His foremost one was the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Road and its four ridges of mountains; he eulogized the "waggons" and
                    the "waggoners" for the masterly way they overcame it. "They avoid, as
                    much as possible, the turnpike roads, & scramble over hills and mountains, where English
                        
                  
                     30 Birkbeck, Notes on a Journey in America, 2.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., 3.
                  
                     32 Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards
                                County, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society Collections, I, 49. Elias P. Fordham
                            listed the above items and added: "We were furnished with guns and tomohawks, and
                            all things necessary to encamp in the woods; which Mr. B. actually did one night; but the
                            main body of the party escaped that adventure." Frederic A. Ogg (ed.), Personal Narrative of Travels in 
                                    Virginia
                                , 
                                    Maryland
                                , 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , 
                                    Ohio
                                , Indiana, 
                                    Kentucky
                                ; and of a Residence in the 
                                    Illinois
                                 Territory: 1817–1818 by Elias P. Fordham
                                    (
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     , 1906), 95–96.
                  
                     33 Ogg (ed.), Personal Narrative of Travels,
                        67.
               
                     waggons would be dashed to pieces; but these light carriages,
                    built in a masterly way, & of the best materials, seem to be indestructable."
                    Another difficulty was the piano. "We have already saved it from being dashed to pieces
                    twice: it is a high load, as the case would not lie at the bottom of the waggon."34 At 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , arrangements were made for shipping the baggage down the 
                        Ohio
                     in a keelboat and a flatboat; and, planning to meet his friends in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Fordham boarded the "
                        Kentucky
                    " boat.
            Before leaving 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Birkbeck and his group met a Mr. Sloo, register of the newly-opened land office at
                    Shaw-neetown, who was able to give them an account of the prairies in his district. Since he was
                    going to 
                        Illinois
                     on horseback, he agreed to accompany the group which now included Fordham.35
            
            Flower described an incident which happened during the journey through Indiana: Birkbeck made a
                    proposal of marriage to Eliza Andrews which was declined. The incident was to have repercussions in
                    the later relationship of Birkbeck and Flower. At the time of its occurrence, Flower admitted that
                    "things were a little embarrassing."36 Flower next proposed to
                    Miss Andrews and was accepted.37 After a short stay at 
                        Vincennes
                    , the group moved to 
                        Princeton
                     and set up its headquarters in a rented house. Birkbeck now wrote that "twenty
                    or thirty miles west of this place, in the 
                        Illinois
                     territory, is a large country where settlements are just beginning; and where there is
                    abundant choice of unentered lands of a description, which will satisfy our wishes if the statements
                    of travellers and surveyors can be relied on. …38
            
            
               
                  34
                        Ibid., 59, 61.
               
                  35 The register, unfortunately, became ill about seventy miles from 
                            Cincinnati
                         and was unable to complete the journey with them. Birkbeck, Notes on a
                            Journey in America, 98. Flower did not mention the illness, but commented that Mr. Sloo
                        parted from them about two-thirds of the way across Indiana to take a southern road toward
                        Shawneetown while they continued west to 
                            Vincennes
                        . History of the English Settlement in Edwards County, 
                                Illinois
                            
                  , in 
                            Chicago
                         Historical Society Collections, I, 50–51.
               
                  36 Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards
                            County, 
                                Illinois
                            
                  , 
                            Chicago
                         Historical Society Collections, I, 56.
               
                  37 They were married at 
                            Vincennes
                         in July, 1817, by Elihu Stout, a justice of the peace and editor of the only
                        newspaper. Birkbeck gave the bride away; Elias P. Fordham and Judge Blake were the witnesses.
                        After a brief honeymoon trip to Busro, the nearby Shaker village, Flower and his wife joined the
                        other emigrants at 
                            Princeton
                        . Ibid., 56–58.
               
                  38 Birkbeck, Notes on a Journey in America, 96.
            
            
            Plans were made to seek the prairies. Flower, Birkbeck, and his son Bradford set out together. What
                    was their objection to settling in Indiana? Birkbeck commented upon the fact that they
                    had been 
                        so long buried in the deep forests. It is a feeling of confinement, which begins to damp the
                            spirits, from this complete exclusion of distant objects. To travel day after day, among
                            trees of a hundred feet high, without a glimpse of the surrounding country, is oppressive to
                            a degree which those cannot conceive who have not experienced it; and it must depress the
                            spirits of the solitary settler to pass years in this state. His visible horison extends no
                            farther than the tops of the trees which bound his plantation–perhaps, five
                            hundred yards. Upwards he sees the suni and sky, and stars, but around him an eternal
                            forest, from which he can never hope to emerge. …39
                  
                    
            
            Emerging from the forests of Indiana, the three crossed the 
                        Wabash
                     and proceeded seven miles to the Big 
                        Prairie
                    . Birkbeck expressed his astonishment at beholding "a fertile plain of grass
                    … more luxuriant than any we had before seen. The scene reminded us of some open, well
                    cultivated vale in Europe, surrounded by wooded uplands; and forgetting that we were, in fact, on
                    the very frontiers, beyond which, few settlers had penetrated, we were transported in idea to the
                    fully peopled regions we had left so far behind us." George Flower also described this
                    first glimpse of the southern 
                        Illinois
                     prairies.
            
                    At first, we only received the impressions of its general beauty. With longer gaze, all its
                        distinctive features were revealed, lying in profound repose under the warm light of the
                        afternoon's summer sun. Its indented and irregular outline of wood, its varied surface
                        interspersed with clumps of oaks of centuries' growth, its tall grass, with seed stalks from six
                        to ten feet high, like tall and slender reeds waving in a gentle breeze, the whole presenting a
                        magnificence of park-scenery. … For once, the reality came up to the picture of
                            imagination.40
               
                
            
               
                  39
                        Ibid., 102.
               
                  40
                        Ibid., 103; Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards
                            County, 
                                Illinois
                            
                  , 
                            Chicago
                         Historical Society Collections, I, 64. Flower, on page 65,
                        recorded his first meeting with the prairie flies at this time. He noted the
                        "refractory" actions of the horses. "The flies attack both horses and
                        cattle, and sting them dreadfully in the open prairie, but will not follow them into the
                        ordinary shade of a wood or forest. They rarely, if ever, attack men. This annoyance induces
                        travelers, crossing large prairies, to travel by night and rest by day." Birkbeck
                        described the soil of the Big 
                            Prairie
                        . It "is a rich cool sand; that is to say, one of the most desirable
                        description. It extends about five miles by four, bounded by an irregular outline of lofty
                        timber. … This prairie is somewhat marshy, and there is much swampy ground between it
                        and the 
                            Wabash
                        . …" Notes on a Journey in America,
                    104.
            
            
            The partners were enthusiastic about the prairies. "Several beautiful prairies, so beautiful
                    with their surrounding woods as to seem like the creation of fancy, gardens of delight in a dreary
                    wilderness. …" was Birkbeck's happy comment.41
            
            A hunter named Harris became their guide in exploring the more remote prairies between the Little 
                        Wabash
                     and the Skillet-fork. Birkbeck pictured one of the secluded cabins which afforded them
                    shelter. 
                        The cabin … was formed of round logs, with apertures of three or four inches
                            between. No chimney, but large intervals between the "clap-boards," for
                            the escape of the smoke. … Two bedsteads of unhewn logs, and cleft boards laid
                            across;–two chairs, one of them without a bottom, and a low stool, were all the
                            furniture required by this numerous family. A string of buffalo hide stretched across the
                            hovel, was a wardrobe for their rags; and their utensils, consisting of a large iron pot,
                            some baskets, the effective rifle and two that were superannuated, stood about in corners,
                            and the fiddle, which was only silent when we were asleep, hung by them.42
                  
                     Flower described the cabin of a hunter named Birk.
            
                    Fourteen feet long, twelve broad, and seven high with earth for a floor, [it] contained a
                        four-post bedstead, said posts, driven into the ground by an ax, were sprouting, with buds,
                        branches, and leaves.
                    The rim of an old wire-sieve, furnished with a piece of deerskin, punched with holes, for sifting
                        cornmeal, a skillet, and a coffee-pot were all the culinary apparatus for a family of seven. A
                        small three-legged stool and a rickety clap-board table the only furniture. An ax lay at the
                        door, a rifle stood against the wall. Himself and boys were dressed in buckskin, his wife and
                        three daughters in flimsy calico from the store… 43
               
                
            Completing their tour of the prairies of southern 
                        Illinois
                    , Birkbeck and Flower began to make immediate and future plans. Finding the Little 
                        Wabash
                     and the Skillet-fork unsuitable for their purposes because of spring floods, they
                    agreed 
                  
                     41 Birkbeck, Nates on a Journey in America, 105.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., 109–110.
                  
                     43 Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards
                                County, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society Collections, I, 68. Jeremiah Birk was the
                            "oldest" settler in the region; he had been there almost a "year." It was the backwoodsmen, including Birk (whose name was
                            sometimes spelled "Burke" by the English), who constructed the first homes
                            for the emigrants. Ibid., 66–67, 124. John Woods bought his
                            land in Birk's 
                                Prairie
                             from the father-in-law of this hunter. Two Years' Residence in the
                                Settlement on the English 
                                    Prairie
                                 in the 
                                    Illinois
                                 Country. 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                London
                            , 1822), 145. The prairies became too "crowded for Birk, and he soon
                            moved across the 
                                Mississippi
                             River.
               
                     to enter land on the Boltenhouse (soon renamed English) 
                        Prairie
                    , located between the Little and the Big 
                        Wabash
                    . Pooling their money to enter the land, Birkbeck was to go to the land office at
                    Shawneetown for this purpose. Unable to purchase the whole prairie, they agreed that Flower should
                    return to 
                        England
                     to obtain money to be remitted to Birkbeck; take the manuscript copies of
                    Birkbeck's book for publication; spread information of their plans for an English
                    Settlement; and bring Flower's parents to America. Birkbeck "was on the home
                    department to purchase more land and make the necessary preparations in building." Flower
                    was "on the foreign mission, to bring in the people."44
            
            Birkbeck's reaction to Shawneetown was unfavorable. "This place I account as a
                    phenomenon evincing the pertinacious adhesion of the human animal to the spot where it has once
                    fixed itself. … The 
                        Ohio
                     with its annual overflowings is unable to wash away the inhabitants of Shawnee
                    Town." At the land office Birkbeck made himself a landowner "by paying seven
                    hundred and twenty dollars, as one fourth of the purchase money of fourteen hundred and forty acres:
                    this, with a similar purchase made by Mr. Flower, is part of a beautiful and rich prairie, about six
                    miles distant from the Big, and the same from the Little 
                        Wabash
                    . The land is rich natural meadow, bounded by timbered land, within reach of two
                    navigable rivers, and may be rendered immediately productive at a small expence."45
            
            Since one purpose of his book was to promote emigration to southern 
                        Illinois
                    , Birkbeck included a general description of that area. "Sand predominates in
                    the soil…the basis of the country is sand-stone, lying ... on clay-slate. … No
                    lime-stone has yet been discovered in the district. I have heard of coal in several places, but have
                    not seen a specimen of it." Geographically, he assured his readers the location was
                    favorable. 
                        The Big 
                                Wabash
                            , a noble stream, forming its eastern boundary, runs a course of about four
                            hundred miles, through one of the most fertile portions of this most fertile region. It has
                            a communication … with lake Huron and all the navigation of the north, by means
                            of a portage 
                        
                           44 Flower, History of the English Settlement in
                                        Edwards County, 
                                            Illinois
                                        
                           , 
                                        Chicago
                                     Historical Society Collections, I, 73–74.
                                    Birkbeck's manuscript was his Notes on a Journey in
                                    America. For additional details, see post, note 51.
                        
                           46 Birkbeck, Notes on a Journey in America,
                                    113, 114.
                     
                             of eight miles to the Miami of the lakes. This portage
                            will, probably, be made navigable in a few years. … The Little 
                                Wabash
                            , though a sluggish stream, is, or may become a navigable communication
                            extending far north … four hundred miles.
                     He defended the prairies for they had sometimes been represented as marshes. "This
                    is not…the case with all. Our prairie rises at its northern extremity to a commanding
                    height, being one of the most elevated portions of the country… ,"46
            
            How did Birkbeck plan to develop the prairie?
            
                    Nothing but fencing and providing water for stock is wanted to reduce a prairie into the
                        condition of useful grass land; and from that state, we all know, the transition to arable is
                        through a simple process, easy to perform, and profitable as it goes on. Thus no addition,
                        except the above on the score of improvement, is to be made to the first cost, as regards the
                        land. Buildings, proportioned to the owner's inclination or purse, are of course
                        requisite on every estate.
                
            What would be the cost? 
                        The dividing a section … into inclosures of twenty-five acres each, with proper
                            avenues of communication, each inclosure being supplied with water, in the most convenient
                            manner, and live hedges planted, or sown, will cost less than two dollars per acre. This
                            added to the purchase money, when the whole is paid, will aanount to eighteen shillings
                            sterling, per acre, or five hundred and seventy six pounds for six hundred and forty acres.
                            Calculations on the capital to be employed on buildings, and stock alive and dead, would be
                            futile, as this would be in proportion to the means. The larger the amount, within the
                            limits of utility, the greater the profit: but, as the necessary outgoings are trifling, a small sum will do. Two thousand pounds sterling for these purposes would
                            place the owner in a state of comfort and even affluence.
                     Birkbeck's enthusiastic conclusion was that "an English farmer possessing
                    three thousand pounds, besides the charges of removal may establish himself well
                    as a proprietor and occupier of such an estate."47
            
            Since the two friends were unable to purchase all the land they wished, the fear of speculators
                    taking the adjoining desirable land caused them considerable apprehension; if this occurred, their
                    object of preserving land at the government price for those English emigrants whose arrival was
                    expected 
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., 114–116.
                  
                     47
                            Ibid., 116–117. From the record of emigrants' costs, one pound
                            was worth approximately $4.50. The cost of land and inclosing it would be nearly
                            $2,592.
               
                     the following year would be defeated. At the time there seemed
                    to be a scarcity of money, and many of the westerners of 
                        Kentucky
                     and Indiana were in debt. Flower, however, wrote to Thomas Jefferson inquiring his
                    opinion of the possibility that Congress, upon application, might grant a township of land for the
                    projected settlement. Jefferson answered in a letter from Poplar Forest dated July 12, 1817. He
                    noted that the general law prescribed an open sale; to dispense land by special legislation was
                    generally opposed, "lest a principle of favoritism should creep in and prevent that of
                    equal rights." He also indicated that he had little influence with the administrators of
                    the land office, for during the last "eight or ten years" all its personnel had
                    changed. He commended Flower's decision to remain in America as an action demonstrating to
                    European political oppressors that there was a "canaan" to which the oppressed
                    might flee. "You have set your country a good example, by showing them a practicable mode
                    of reducing their rulers to the necessity of becoming more wise, more moderate, and more
                    honest… ,"48
            
            Birkbeck informed his readers of the true position of the two families who were to be fixed upon two
                    adjoining estates of approximately fifteen hundred acres each.
            
                    Here we are preparing to raise buildings: carpenters and builders have offered themselves:
                        estimates are made and materials are at hand. We are also providing for gardens and orchards.
                        … The fee simple of each of these estates amounts to three thousand dollars,
                        £1,350 sterling; they are liable to a land tax of thirty dollars a-year to the
                        general governiment, and about the same to the county, together something more than one penny
                        per acre. We shall have a certain and good market for produce from the growing population; or by
                        export down the 
                            Ohio
                        . … On these estates we hope to live much as we have been accustomed to
                        live in 
                            England
                        : but this is not the country for fine gentlemen or fine ladies of any class or
                        description, 
                     
                        48 Flower, History of the English Settlement in
                                    Edwards County, 
                                        Illinois
                                    
                        , 
                                    Chicago
                                 Historical Society Collections, I, 75–80.
                                Birkbeck also feared speculators. During Flower's absence, he wrote to
                                Nathaniel Pope, 
                                    Illinois
                                 territorial delegate to Congress, requesting the right of pre-emption on
                                forty thousand acres of land. In his reply, Pope mentioned his pleasure that Birkbeck
                                had chosen 
                                    Illinois
                                 for the settlement. "I made some enquiries of Mr. Adams, late
                                minister to 
                                    London
                                , now secretary-of-state, who speaks of you in the most flattering
                                terms." Both Flower's and Birkbeck's efforts to secure
                                pre-emption rights were unsuccessful. Ibid., 80–83.
                                Birkbeck included a copy of his memorial to Congress and probable reasons for its
                                failure in Letters from 
                                        Illinois
                                    
                         (
                                    Philadelphia
                                , 1818), 105–111.
                  
                         especially for those who love state, and require abundance
                        of attendants.49
               
                
            For the perusal of possible emigrants, he concluded his book with the design of the planned
                    settlement. 
                        To commence operations by building a number of cabins with enclosures of two acres and a-half
                            each, along the sides of a section, which is to be reserved as their cow pasture. These
                            cottages, and inclosures, with a well between two, may be rented by persons who will resort
                            to us for the sake of good earnings. ... It is the intention of my friend, Mr. Flower, and
                            myself to purchase … one, or more, entire townships in the 
                                Illinois
                             territory. … These lands, we propose to offer (on terms
                            proportionably favourable) to a number of our countrymen, whose views may so far accord with
                            our own, as to render proximity of settlement desirable. … With regard to the
                            disposal of the lands in general, we shall probably, offer them in sections, half-sections,
                            quarters, and eighths. …
                        We wish it to be clearly understood, that we have no design of forming a society of English,
                            to be governed by any laws or regulations of our own framing. We would not bind others, nor
                            be ourselves bound by any ties, but those of mutual interest, and good neighbourhood; nor be
                            subject to any law, but the law of the land.
                     One stipulation would be made–
            
                    That no person may be tempted, by the low price at which our lands shall be offered to possess themselves of it as a mere object of speculation, a declaration will
                        be required on the part of the purchaser, of his intention to reside on the spot. We would, at
                        the same time, impress upon him, the necessity of not purchasing more than he can fairly manage.
                        Our opinion is, that it would be more advantageous to the resident proprietor to possess a
                        capital of four or five pounds sterling an acre, than to incapacitate himself for carrying on
                        his improvements for want of adequate means.
                    I repeat that we have not fallen on this scheme from a wish to form a society exclusively
                        English, or, indeed, any society as distinct from the people at large. We
                        would most willingly extend our proposals to Americans or emigrants of any nation, with the
                        requisite capital, could our plan embrace them. Concentration of capital and numbers is the only
                        refuge from many privations, and even sufferings in these remote regions:–but, the
                        main advantage of preparing, as we propose, for the reception of our brethren, will be to save
                        them a wearisome and expensive travel, in quest of a settlement, but too often ending in
                        despair. …50
               
                
            The dream of the projected English Settlement was thus outlined. Whether it was a failure or a
                    success can only be 
                  
                     49 Birkbeck, Notes on a Journey in America,
                            137–138. The "builders" were backwoodsmen.
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., 141–144.
               
                     determined from an evaluation of these objectives applied to
                    the later history of the Settlement.
            With the completion of Birkbeck's book, Flower made preparations to return to 
                        England
                    . Mrs. Flower planned to return east with her husband. Birkbeck and Flower held their
                    last interview. The later was given two manuscript copies of the book–one to be published
                    in 
                        Philadelphia
                     and the other in 
                        England
                    . At a tavern in Chambersburgh, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Mrs. Flower chose to remain until her husband's return. He proceeded to 
                        Philadelphia
                    , placed Birkbeck's manuscript in the hands of printers,51
                    and resumed his journey to 
                        New York
                     to board a ship for 
                        England
                    .
            The publication of Birkbeck's Notes on a Journey in America in 
                        England
                     appraised the public of the plans for the Settlement. Flower acknowledged the
                    difficulty of describing western America to an Englishman. 
                        In speaking of a field, the only field he had ever seen was a plot of ground, from five to
                            fifty acres in extent, surrounded by a ditch, a bank, and a live hawthorn fence.
                            … A zig-zag fence it is difficult for him to understand. …
                        The only houses he has seen are buildings with plastered or papered walls, with ceilings and
                            floors, with halls, passages, cellars, and attics, and each room furnished with a good
                            chimney and hearth. The simple log-house he can scarcely realize. But few comprehend the
                            difficulties arising from an absence of population.
                     To enable him to picture the remoteness of the situation, Flower would ask him to imagine
                    that "you and your family were placed under a clump of oak trees, …with the sky
                    above, the earth below, no fence, no house, and perhaps no person within twenty miles.
                    …"" Many now applied in person or by letter to Flower for advice on the
                    subject of emigration. "Farmers of 
                        England
                    , miners of 
                        Cornwall
                    , drovers of 
                        Wales
                    , mechanics of 
                        Scotland
                    , the West-
                        India
                     planters, inhabitants of the Channel Isles, and the ‘gentlemen of no
                    particular business’ of the Emerald Isle,"53 all seemed
                    intent upon joining the emigrants on the prairies of 
                        Illinois
                    .
            
               
                  51
                        Notes on a Journey in America from the Coast of 
                                Virginia
                             to the Territory of 
                                Illinois
                            
                   was published at 
                            Philadelphia
                         in 1817 and in 
                            London
                         in 1818. Eleven English editions followed in two years. Other editions were
                        published at 
                            Dublin
                         and at Jena (in 
                            German
                        ) in 1818. Birkbeck's next book, Letters from 
                                Illinois
                            
                  , was printed at 
                            Philadelphia
                         in 1818. Editions followed in 
                     Boston, London
                   (seven), 
                            Dublin
                        , and Jena.
               
                  52 Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards
                            County, 
                                Illinois
                            
                  , 
                            Chicago
                         Historical Society Collections, I, 93–94.
               
                  53
                  Ibid., 94. Flower indicated that representatives of
                        each of these groups could be found in the English Settlement.
            
            
            Birkbeck's second book, Letters from 
                            Illinois
                        
               , was, if anything, more optimistic than his first. He would not persuade or
                    invite any one to follow them, but he wished his friends "to know that my undertaking
                    proceeds to my entire content."54 The first indication of a rift with
                    Flower is found.
            
                    He [Flower] left us on the sixth of September; and such is the uncertainty of all human affairs
                        when time only is interposed between us and our intentions, that when in
                        addition to time the distance of 5000 miles twice passed, was to intervene
                        between our parting and reunion, I confess I have been apt to consider his return to our
                        settlement in the light rather of a remote contingency, than as an event to be calculated on.55
               
                
            Birkbeck began to anticipate the arrival of fellow emigrants. "I expect to see around me in
                    prosperity many of my old neighbours. … Three of them have already made the effort, and
                    succeeded in getting out to us. … Two more are waiting at 
                        Philadelphia
                     for an invitation which is now on its way."56
            
            He attempted to answer some of the often-asked questions of would-be emigrants. Obtain
                    laborers? "A single settler may get his labour done by the piece on moderate
                    terms, not higher than in parts of 
                        England
                    ." He suggested they encourage English laborers to come. Provisions?
                    Wheat, beef, and pork were cheap; "groceries and clothing dear, building moderate, either
                    by wood or brick." Privations? "Their amount depends on the previous
                    habits and present disposition of individuals. …"To Birkbeck, they were small
                    compared with the advantages. Society? "Made up of new comers chiefly.
                    …yet unborn as it were."
            Purchases of land would best be made at the land offices: "payments, five years, or prompt;
                    if the latter, eight per cent. 
                  
                     54 Birkbeck, Letters from 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 4. William Blane commented: "With regard to Mr.
                            Birkbeck's letters, every one who has lately been at the settlement, must allow,
                            that the description he has given of the advantages of the situation, is somewhat
                            exaggerated." He thought the exaggeration unintentional. An Excursion
                                through the 
                                    United States
                                 and 
                                    Canada
                                 during the years 1822–23 (
                                London
                            , 1824), 162.
                  
                     55 Birkbeck, Letters from 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 8. Flower was "struck" by the sentence when he saw
                            it, but the friend to whom Birkbeck wrote had no doubt for he gave a sum of money to Flower
                            to be invested. History of the English Settlement in Edwards County, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society Collections, I, 113.
                  
                     56 Birkbeck, Letters from 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 9. The latter emigrants were two brothers and the wife of one of them
                            who had emigrated from a village near Wanborough. Carpenters by trade, they immediately
                            found work to do. Ibid., 34–35.
               
                     discount. Mechanics' wages, 1 dollar to 1½.
                    Carpenters, smiths, shoemakers, brickmakers, and bricklayers, are among the first in requisition for
                    a new settlement: others follow in course;–tanners, saddlers, tailors, hatters,
                    tinworkers, &c. &c." Markets? Birkbeck was especially optimistic
                    concerning them; markets would be excellent because of river communications with the ocean.
                    Illness? English people seemed liable to bilious attacks upon their arrival, but it was
                    easily overcome. Objects of immediate attention for manufacture were beer, spirits, pottery,
                    tanning. The minerals of the vicinity were not known. In the second book, Birkbeck reported the
                    presence of excellent limestone; there was coal, but wood remained the cheapest fuel. Implements
                    were cheap with the exception of iron. Roads were still in a state of nature.
            "The best mode of coming from 
                        England
                     to this part of the western country is by an eastern port, thence to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , and down the 
                        Ohio
                     to Shawnee town. Clothing bedding, household linen, simple medicines of the best
                    quality, and sundry small articles of cutlery and light tools, are the best things for an emigrant
                    to bring out." In suggesting the manner of traveling, Birkbeck stated that "it
                    must be suited to the party. Horseback is the most pleasant and expeditious; on foot the cheapest; a
                    light waggon is eligible in some cases; in others, the stage is a necessary evil.…
                        "57
            
            Birkbeck's unbounded optimism is best shown in such statements as the following:
                    "For about half the capital that is required for the mere cultivation of our worn-out soils
                    in 
                        England
                    , a man may establish himself as a proprietor here, with every comfort belonging to a
                    plain and reasonable mode of living, and with a certainty of establishing his children as well or
                    better than himself–such an approach to certainty at least as would render anxiety on that score unpardonable."58 This was the promise
                    of a sure reward 
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., 13–16.
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., 18. Optimistically, Birkbeck included a summary of expenditures and
                            profits as he hoped it would be: 
                        
                            
                           "Expenses Dollars.
                            Produce Dollars
                        
                        
                           First year 
                           1,000
                           2,000
                        
                        
                           Second
                           1,400
                           3,500
                        
                        
                           Third
                           2,300
                           5,500
                        
                        
                           Fourth
                           2,700
                           7,000
                        
                        
                            
                            
                           18,000
                        
                     
                        
               
                     extended to the financially hard-pressed farmers of Great
                    Britain.
            The first group of emigrants set sail from 
                        Bristol
                     in March, 1818. About half of them were farmer-laborers and mechanics from Surrey who
                    had either worked for Birkbeck or knew him personally or by reputation. These forty-four men and one
                    married woman were led by a young farmer, Charles Trimmer. The other half was composed of 
                        London
                     mechanics and tradesmen from various parts of 
                        England
                     and was led by James Lawrence, a 
                        London
                     tailor. None of these knew Birkbeck or Flower personally; the decision to emigrate
                    resulted from reading their writings. Hugh Ronalds, George Flower's friend, was also aboard
                    the ship.59 The emigrants arrived safely at 
                        Philadelphia
                     in June.
            They made their way either in wagons or on horseback to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , down the 
                        Ohio
                     in flatboats to Shawneetown, and then to Birkbeck's cabin on the Boltenhouse 
                        Prairie
                    . What were his preparations for their coming? "He had erected a
                    square of rough log-cabins, with two doors in each, and a small sash-window in every door. This
                    rendezvous, afterward called the barracks, was for all comers. Into this the first ship's
                    company–eighty-eight in number–went, all men, except three women."60 The village of Wanborough had been laid off by Birkbeck in five-acre lots. On
                    these lots were built cabins which were either rented or bought. An ox-mill 
                  
                     
                        
                           Housekeeping and other expenses, 4 years 4,000
                           11,400
                        
                        
                            
                           11,400
                           6,600
                        
                        
                           Net proceeds per ann 1,650
                            
                        
                        
                           Increasing value of land by cultivation and settlements, half a dollar per
                                        ann. on 640 acres
                           320
                        
                        
                           Annual clear profit 
                           1,970"
                            
                        
                     Elaborating further, Birkbeck wrote that if his summary should prove "too
                            sanguine" for cultivation of corn and wheat, he had entirely "omitted the
                            profits on live stock; and it is on the boundless scope for rearing and fattening hogs and
                            cattle, that the farmers place their chief reliance." Ibid.,
                            43–44, 48. In a letter to John Melish, Birkbeck admitted that he had made an
                            error: "I have not made sufficient allowance of time, for the
                            innumerable delays, which attend a new establishment in a new country. I would now add to
                            the Dr. side a year of preparation, which will of course make a material deduction from the
                            profits at the commencement of the undertaking." Information and
                                Advice to Emigrants, 64.
                  
                     59 Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards
                                County, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society Collections, I, 95–96, 99.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., 99–100.
               
                     and blacksmith shop were soon added to the village."
            The second emigrant ship was engaged by Flower for his family group. It sailed from Liverpool in
                    April. Flower enumerated these emigrants: 
                        My own immediate family and friends occupied the cabin; my domestic servants, and other
                            emigrants going out to join us, filled the steerage; and my live-stock of cows, hogs, and
                            sheep, of the choicest breeds of 
                                England
                            , took up all the spare room on deck. My father and mother … aged
                            sixty-three, accompanied me, with my two sisters, … one brother, William, a young
                            man, the other, _ Edward, a lad, Miss [Maria] Fordham, my cousin,62
                            going to join her brother in 
                                Illinois
                            , with three attached female and one man-servant. … These, with
                            myself and my two sons, young boys, were my immediate family party.63
                  
                    Other emigrants on the ship were Francis Rotch and his brother, friends of Birkbeck; a Mr.
                    Filder, an older man; Dr. C. Pugsley and wife from 
                        London
                    ; John Wood, a young farmer; John Ingle and his family, who intended to settle near 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana; and Captain Stone and family– Stone had been steward for Flower
                    and was now responsible for the care of his cattle. The group numbered more than sixty.64 Landing at 
                        New York
                    , it broke up into smaller parties to make their way westward.
            George Flower's parents, sisters, and younger brother leisurely journeyed westward to spend
                    the winter in 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , while he prepared a residence for them in 
                        Illinois
                    . He hastened to obtain a carriage to provide transportation for his wife, his two sons
                    and Maria Fordham. His brother William joined him at 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . There George Flower purchased a keelboat and a flatboat and lashed them together,
                    "the former for my family, the latter for my horses; carriage fastened on the top of the
                    flat; four English farm-laborers for oarsmen."65
            
            At Shawneetown, Flower was met by his cousin Elias 
                  
                     61
                            Ibid., 100. "In August, 1818, the village of Wanborough sprang
                            into existence for the accommodation of the first-ship's party, on Mr.
                            Birkbeck's property, and under his immediate direction." Ibid., 130.
                  
                     62 Frederick A. Ogg, editor of the writings of Elias P. Fordham, made
                            the mistake of saying that George Flower "was an uncle of his [Fordham's]
                            by marriage." Maria Fordham (married Charles de la Serre and was the grandmother of
                            the man who secured the letters for Ogg. Personal Narrative of Travels,
                            31–32.
                  
                     63 Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards
                                County, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society Collections, I, 100–101.
                  
                     64
                            Ibid., 101.
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., 103–104, 106.
               
                     Pym Fordham. He had remained with Birkbeck during the winter,
                    making trips of exploration on the prairies, assisting in the preparations for the emigrants, and
                    making journeys to 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Louisville
                    . Fordham disclosed to the new arrivals the most recent information of the Settlement.
                    He also indicated that Birkbeck had "somewhat changed. He looked older, was rather testy,
                    and occasionally gave short answers"; Fordham's information surprised Flower. His
                    cousin had built two cabins on Flower's land; in one was living a French-Canadian family.
                    The family group went to the second cabin. The nearest well was beside the other cabin Fordham had
                        built.66
            
            When the third day came and no one from the Settlement two miles away called, George Flower mounted
                    his horse and rode to Birkbeck's cabin. Starting to dismount, Flower looked up to see
                    Birkbeck rise and move toward the cabin. Shaking his head, he said, "No, we can not meet, I
                    can not see you." Astonished, Flower replied, "We must meet, our property is
                    undivided, business is urgent. ..." "Stop," said he, "let a
                    third person arrange all." "So be it," answered Flower and rode away.
                    "These were the last words that ever passed between us."67
            
            
               
                  66
                        Ibid., 109–110.
               
                  67
                        Ibid., 112. William Faux assumed that he was an authority upon the subject of
                        the famous quarrel, because he had heard both sides from the people involved, "or at
                        least as much of both sides as the parties, voluntarily and unquestioned, thought proper to
                        give" him. "The Flowers charge Mr. B. with an intention of driving their
                        family out of 
                            Illinois
                        , and of deceiving the public generally, in the hope of monopolizing all the
                        prairies to himself, so that he might sell, at what advanced price he pleased, to such of his
                        countrymen as came hither, induced by his tempting publications." While Birkbeck was
                        still in 
                            England
                         and preparing for departure, his daughters met Miss Andrews at the Flower home and
                        persuaded her to accompany them. At 
                            Vincennes
                        , Birkbeck gave his consent to the marriage of George Flower and Miss Andrews. When
                        the couple returned to the East, "Mr. Birkbeck parted with them in friendship,
                        promising to prepare houses and purchase land for them and the family before they returned.
                        … When the Flower family arrived, he had done nothing, nor purchased anything for
                        them." Faux gave a recital of the final interview; he recounted the subsequent illness
                        of the Flowers. An infant daughter died; and "Mr. [Richard] Flower's favorite
                        son, thus exposed and sick, never recovered." Birkbeck wrote to Richard Flower in
                                
                     Lexington, Kentucky
                  , suggesting that the Flowers settle in the East
                        since he had not bought them any land, but had returned their funds to their Eastern banker.
                        This determined Richard Flower to come to the prairies to protect his family. "They
                        deem the event a great evil to themselves and to the settlement, because it happened at a time
                        when the joint exertions of these two families were so necessary for its success. …
                        Mr. G. Flower professes not to defend his departure from law and
            
            
            
                    We never quarrelled or descended to altercation, never spoke ill of each other, and never
                        … attempted to do each other any injury. We were silent ever after, as if we ignored
                        each other's existence. The line of demarcation between our lands was about three miles
                        long. Ever after, I worked on one side, he on the other. When strangers visited the Settlement,
                        they called on each of us.68
               
                
            Now that emigrants were arriving in response to the invitation, how prepared was the Settlement to
                    receive them ? For some time the Settlement suffered the inconveniences of population in
                    advance of sufficient food and shelter. The buildings necessary for people, for horses, for goods
                    were built by backwoodsmen. "These men worked well in the morning, slackened toward noon,
                    as the drams of whisky (which they would not work without) told upon them, and indulged in
                    imprecations, brawls, and rough-and-tumble fights, toward evening."69
            
            
                    Emigrants were continually flowing in. They first visited Mr. Birkbeck, who had but small
                        accommodations; then same to me, [Flower] who, at that time, had still less. …
                    Mr. Lawrence and Mr. Trimmer … made their settlement in the Village 
                            Prairie
                        . … situated due north of my cabin in the Boltenhouse 
                            Prairie
                        , about three miles. … Emigrants kept coming in, some on foot, some on
                        horseback, and some in wagons. Some sought employment, and took up with such labor as they could
                        find. Others struck out and made small beginnings for themselves. Some, with feelings of
                        petulence, went farther and fared worse; others dropped back into the towns and settlements in
                            Indiana.70
               
                
            
               custom, in this second marriage, but … having missed his chance of happiness in his
                        first, he was determined to try a second marriage, which promised better things.
                        …" Birkbeck stated "that soon after landing in this country, and
                        being joined by Mr. G. Flower, he began to suspect a connection was forming between Miss Andrews
                        and George Flower. … and he consented to and sanctioned their marriage …
                        as he respected both as his children. …" Why the change in conduct toward
                        them? He became convinced that he had been deceived, "and that the senior
                        branches had placed this young lady in his family for the express purpose of effecting their
                        purposes, namely of marrying her to their son. …"He had been made
                        "the innocent tool of such iniquitous measures," and determined to abandon the
                        Flowers in order to "preserve his reputation." Why had he failed to purchase
                        land with their money? Birkbeck said "it was optional whether he purchased
                        lands with the money sent; it was not binding upon him to do it. … under such
                        circumstances, to be more distantly situated" would be to the best interest of both
                        families. Memorable Days in America, 290–297.
               
                  68 Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards
                            County, 
                                Illinois
                            
                  , 
                            Chicago
                         Historical Society Collections, I, 113–114.
               
                  69
                        Ibid., 124.
               
                  70
                        Ibid., 124–125. Flower listed many of the emigrants in his book.
                        Another emigrant ship arrived at 
                            New Orleans
                         in 1819, others came in the succeeding years, probably the last was in 1845. From
                        time to time, year after year small parties came to the Settlement. Some were disappointed and
                        returned to 
                            England
                        . Ibid., 127–166.
            
            
            During the summer Flower was engaged in building the cabins his workmen required, in erecting a large
                    farmyard, a hundred feet square, enclosed by log buildings two stories high, and in building a
                    pretentious house for his parents.
            One evening in October, Lawrence, Ronalds, and Fordham visited Flower to discuss the measures that
                    should be taken to form a town as a center for the workmen, such as carpenters and blacksmiths, so
                    necessary to the farmer. It was agreed to locate the proposed village in the center of a tract of
                    forest lying between Lawrence's house and that of Flower's. 
                        To the right of this spot, eastward, lay, about a mile distant, several prairies running
                            north and south for many miles, and others east and west to the Bonpas Creek, from three to
                            five miles distant. Northeastward from Mr. Lawrence's cabin, prairies of every form
                            and size continued on indefinitely. About two miles west, and beyond Wan-borough, were
                            numerous small and fertile prairies, extending to the Little 
                                Wabash
                            , from six to ten miles distant.
                     On the south was Flower's prairie. What name would be chosen?
                    "At last we did what almost all emigrants do, pitched on a name that had its association
                    with the land of our birth" –Albion.71
            
            The next day the group of founders dispersed agreeing that Fordham and Flower were to start north
                    from Flower's dwelling, Lawrence and Ronalds south from the Village 
                        Prairie
                     at a given time on the following morning. The spot where they met was to become the
                    public square of Albion.
                        The surveying and laying of the town was entrusted to Mr. Fordham, who forthwith went to
                            work, and completed the survey and the plat. One of our number went to Shawneetown, and
                            entered the section of six hundred and forty acres, which was all laid off in town lots. The
                            public-square was in the middle. The blocks immediately around, and in the main street, were
                            divided into quarter-acre lots. The blocks outside were divided into half-acres. As the
                            distance increased from the centre, the lots increased in size, until the outer belts of
                            allotments were five and seven acres.72
                  
                    Two double cabins were built; one for a tavern, the other for a blacksmith shop.
                    "Any man could now get his horse shod and get drunk in Albion, privileges which were soon
                    enjoyed, the latter especially."73
            
            
               
                  71
                        Ibid., 125–126.
               
                  72
                        Ibid., 127–128.
               
                  73
                        Ibid., 129.
            
            
            
                    The town-proprietors, at first four, afterward increased to eight (each share five hundred
                        dollars), went to work vigorously. They put up cabin after cabin, which were occupied as soon as
                        put up, by emigrants coming in. The builders of these were the backwoodsmen, some from twenty to
                        thirty miles distant. … The work was generally done by contract or
                        piece-work–the price twenty-five to thirty dollars for single cabins, 16 by 18; from
                        forty to fifty for double cabins.74
               
                
            The first problem was lack of water since their first efforts to dig wells were unsuccessful. With
                    the help of a "water-witch," a successful one was dug. Another project was a kiln
                    of brick, for chimneys and hearths, to supply the various cabins. A market house was built, its
                    length about seventy-five feet, standing on a stone foundation, and covered by a shingle roof. One
                    division was fitted out with books to form the nucleus of a public library; it was also used for
                    public meetings and public worship. When Albion became the county seat, the first courts were held
                    there also. Roads were cut and a bridge was built over Bonpas Creek at a cost of five hundred
                    dollars. The last building constructed by the proprietors was a courthouse and jail. After several
                    disputes, the partnership was dissolved, ending all disagreements arising out of the association.75
            
            George Flower was also employed in completing a house for his parents not far from his own. 
                        The body of the house, 50 by 40 feet, covered by a hipped-roof, consisted of four rooms in
                            the lower and the upper story, divided by a hall-passage from north to south. The south
                            front was protected by a broad, well-floored porch, that extended the length of the house.
                            Every room was plastered or papered, and furnished with a good brick-chimney and
                            stone-hearth. The north front was stuccoed to resemble stone; the south, weather-boarded and
                            painted white. The house was well furnished. ... It had two wings, one of hewn stone, the
                            other of brick, used as kitchen and offices. A well, a cellar, stables, cowhouse, and every
                            other convenience of that sort was appended. A handsome garden to the south was fenced in by
                            an English hawthorn hedge. Thirty acres of the northern woodland was preserved, the
                            underbrush cleared and sowed with blue grass.
                     Its park-like surroundings contributed the name – Park House.76
            
            The elder Flowers moved from 
                        Lexington
                     to Park House. 
                  
                            74
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     75
                     Ibid., 130–131, 133–134.
                            Albion became the county seat of Edwards County in 1822. Ibid., 138.
                  
                     76
                            Ibid., 132.
               
                     The family was composed of the parents, two sisters, and
                    Edward. William, the other son, died during the winter.
            Richard Flower, the father of George Flower, had resided for many years in Hertford, twenty miles
                    northeast of 
                        London
                    , For more than twenty years, he had been engaged in the brewing business. Having
                    obtained a competence, he retired and lived upon an estate which he purchased called Marden,
                    situated near Hertford. His son described him as follows: 
                        He was a striking and decided character, of marked features and imposing mien; hasty in
                            temper, decided in speech, and prompt in action. … Such a man could never be
                            (what, it is true, he never sought to be) a popular man in America. Englishmen, used to free
                            speech at home, here uttering their unpremeditated thoughts, are apt to give offence.
                            Americans, more guarded and noncommittal, escape that difficulty. Once convinced of the
                            truth of his impressions, no earthly power could turn my father from his course. It was his
                            belief in the obligation of public worship that induced him to officiate every Sunday before
                            other organized societies opened their places of worship. … He sustained every
                            institution, and subscribed liberally to every public work that was likely to benefit the
                                Settlement.77
                  
                    
            
            His wife was the daughter of Edward Fordham of Kelshall, a village on the borders of Hertfordshire.
                    From one ancestor who had fought with Cromwell, "the seventy-three uncles and
                    cousins–all Fordhams, that made me [George Flower] a farewell visit at my house at Marden
                    before I sailed for America, all sprang."78
            
            When Edward Fordham Flower returned to 
                        England
                     in 1824 to enter the brewing business, his father accompanied him for a visit. Before
                    their departure, George and Frederick Rapp asked Richard Flower to act as their agent to find a
                    purchaser for their Harmony settlement.79
            
            John Woods, an emigrant farmer who came to the English 
                        Prairie
                     in 1819, described the founders' towns:
            
               
                  77
                        Ibid., 314–315. George Flower thus indirectly indicated their
                        unpopularity with some of their American neighbors.
               
                  78
                        Ibid., 316.
               
                  79
                        Ibid., 279. The sale of Harmony to Robert Owen involved 32,000 acres for
                        $132,000. Owen visited the English Settlement, and some of its settlers moved to 
                            New Harmony
                         to join Owen's group. Ibid., 279–280,
                        282–283. The official records of 
                            Posey County
                        , Indiana, indicate that Owen purchased approximately 20,000 acres for
                        $125,000. "The Inhabitants of 
                            New Harmony
                         According to the Federal Census of 1850," edited by Elfrieda Lang in the
                            Indiana Magazine of History (Blooming-ton, Indiana, 1905- ), XLII (1946),
                        355–394, see 361.
            
            
            
                    Mr. Birkbeck's settlement, called Wanborough, is situated at the north-west corner of
                        the English 
                            Prairie
                        , and contains 25 cabins, a tavern, a store or two, and several lodging houses; and
                        several carpenters, bricklayers, brickmakers, smiths, wheelwrights, and sawyers; also a taylor
                        and butcher.
                    A horse or ox mill is building, a malt house planned out, and a new brick
                        building for a tavern, and several new houses begun. As water is scarce, there are some more
                        wells digging. Mr. Birkbeck, in July, found a tolerable good spring, by digging only six feet,
                        about 300 yards from his house; but several of the wells lately dug have but little water in
                        them.
                    Mr. Birkbeck's house is situated south of the village, a frame and log building of good
                        size; it stands pleasantly, and commands a fine view of the prairie.
                    The building lots, at Wanborough, are some of five, and others of two and a half acres, laid out,
                        like imost of the American towns, in streets that cross each other at right angles, running
                        north and south; the cross ones east and west. The lots are in the woods, but a considerable
                        quantity of the wood is now cleared.
                    Albion, Mr. Flower's settlement, lies two miles east of Wanborough; it is also situated
                        in the woods, a little north of the English 
                            Prairie
                        . It has about 20 cabins, a place of worship, a market-house, two taverns, two
                        stores, a surgeon, several carpenters, brick-makers, bricklayers, wheelwrights, smiths, sawyers,
                        and a shoemaker. Several wells have lately been dug in and near it, but water is still scarce.
                    Mr. Flower's house is to the south-east of Albion, a large log-building, well placed to
                        enjoy the prospect of the prairie.
                    Many cabins are built round the prairies, but mostly just in the woods. The English that do not
                        reside in the two villages, are scattered round the different prairies, mostly in single cabins.
                        About four miles to the east of Albion, at Bonpas-bridge, there is a saw-mill lately built, but
                        it is not yet got to work, having had the mill-dam carried away by a flood in February.
                            …80
               
                
            William Blane, who visited the 
                        United States
                     in the years 1822–1823, recorded his impressions of Albion. He was favorably
                    impressed with its healthfulness, "which surprised me the more, as wherever else I had
                    travelled, the people complained of illness." There was still a want of water, for the
                    village lacked an ample supply during the dry season. "The farms in the neighbourhood are
                    increasing in magnitude and number. The year I was there the settlers had exported produce for the
                    first time."81
            
            Blane decided the English in the Settlement deserved some criticism:
            
               
                  80 Woods, Two Years' Residence in the Settlement on the
                            English 
                                Prairie
                            
                  , 160–162.
               
                  81 Blane, An Excursion through the 
                                United States
                             and 
                                Canada
                            
                  , 158–159.
            
            
            
                    What appeared to me to be one of the great drawbacks to settling at Albion, was, that there were
                        two parties who were in open hostility with one another, and whose eternal prosecutions enabled
                        two lawyers, even in this small settlement, to thrive upon the dissensions of the community. Mr.
                        Flowers was the person against whom the greatest indignation of the opposite party was pointed,
                        but, although I was at the time informed of their mutual grievances, yet I have since so
                        entirely forgotten them that I cannot take upon me to say which party was in the right. I must
                        confess, however, that I was greatly mortified at seeing these foolish people, after having left
                        their country, crossed the Atlantic, and travelled 1000 miles into the wilderness, quarrelling
                        with one another, and making each other's situation as disagreeable as possible. The
                        hostile parties do not even speak; and thus the respectable inhabitants, who might constitute a
                        very pleasant little society, are entirely kept apart from one another.
                    The lower class of English at Albion, that is, the common labourers and manufacturers, have, I am
                        sorry to say, very much degenerated; for they have copied all the vices of the Backwoodsmen, but
                        none of their virtues–drinking, fighting, &c, and, when fighting
                        "gouging," and biting.82
               
                
            There were some issues upon which the "hostile parties" could agree and work,
                    although not together, toward achieving the same goals. One of these was the convention question,
                    that is, the question of calling a convention to change the 
                        Illinois
                     constitution in order to permit slavery. The slavery proponents caused the legislature
                    to pass a resolution favoring the convention; it remained for the people to decide the question.
            
                    Taking Edwards County, on the 
                            Wabash
                        , which threw a decisive majority for no convention, following the same line of
                        latitude westward, to where the Rev. Mr. Peck of Rock Spring … headed the
                        no-convention ticket; then to Edwardsville, where Gov. Ninian Edwards did good battle for
                        freedom, and on to 
                            Alton
                        ; here was presented the first line of batteries against the slavery-shock from the
                        south. … From our Settlement many communications were constantly issuing, generally
                        in reply to the advocates of slavery from the south.
                
            Birkbeck was the principle spokesman of the Settlement.83
            
            In June, a series of letters signed "Jonathan Freeman," on the free side, which
                    were replied to by "John Rifle," appeared in the Shawneetown
                    Gazette, and later in the 
                  
                            Illinois
                         Gazette and 
                  
                            Illinois
                         Intelligencer, as well as in other papers. One anonymous letter made a
                    personal attack upon Birkbeck.
            
               
                  82
                        Ibid., 160–161.
               
                  83 Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards
                            County, 
                                Illinois
                            
                  , 
                            Chicago
                         Historical Society Collections, I, 206–207.
            
            
            He replied in the 
                  
                            Illinois
                         Gazette in a letter dated January 6, 1822.
            
                    In publishing my sentiments on the important question of a convention, I perform a duty, as I
                        conceive, to myself, my family, and my adopted country. In subscribing my name to those
                        sentiments, I give my fellow-citizens the means of judging of their sincerity. …
                        Having been an inhabitant of the Territory before it became a state, I am as old a citizen as
                        any in it; therefore, no man has a right to stigmatize me as a foreigner. …
                    He represents me as a 
                            Quaker
                        , whether by way of compliment or reproach is immaterial; because it is not the
                        fact; nor do I appear in the garb and character of that sect. But what bearing has this on the
                        question? I object to slavery, not as a 
                            Quaker
                        , but as a man, and an American citizen.
                
            The "Jonathan Freeman" of the series was, of course, Morris Birkbeck.84
            
            In the election held August 2, 1824, Flower was somewhat chagrined to discover that Albion's
                    vote was 153 for "no convention," and 135 for a "convention."
                    The votes were not as overwhelmingly opposed to a convention as he had hoped; he concluded this was
                    because of a large number of poor Southern settlers in the western precinct.85
            
            Edward Coles, now governor of 
                        Illinois
                    , chose to appoint Birkbeck his secretary of state, but the legislature refused to
                    confirm the appointment. He had been too closely connected with the antislavery forces.86
            
            In June, 1825, Morris Birkbeck and his son Bradford journeyed to 
                        New Harmony
                     and on the return trip began the crossing of the Fox River. Morris
                    Birkbeck was drowned in the attempt; his body was recovered and buried at 
                        New Harmony
                    . He was 62 years old.87
            
            Another issue which drew the "hostile parties" together in their actions, if not in
                    person, was an attack upon the Settlement from outside sources. Flower attributed the disparaging
                    reports to land speculators in the East: 
                        That a parcel of land speculators in 
                                New York
                             and 
                                Philadelphia
                            , seeing that our Settlement was attracting emigrants, whom they wanted to
                            settle on their land, east of the mountains, set on foot every disparaging report, as to
                            health, success, provisions, morals, and religion; 
                        
                           84
                                    Ibid., 209–243, 243–245.
                        
                           85
                                    Ibid., 246.
                        
                           86
                                    Ibid., 247.
                        
                           89
                                    Ibid., 255–256.
                     
                             plying each individual on the point at which he was
                            most sensitive. And this began almost as early as our first-settlers arrived. Of all this,
                            we were fore a time unconscious. It was not until after their attacks appeared in print,
                            that we were at all aware of the extent of these calumnies.88
                  
                    
            
            Probably the most famous of the "calumniators" was William Cobbett.89 Cobbett's letters had a wide circulation in 
                        England
                     and America and presumably had a decided effect in checking the current of emigration
                    to the English Settlement and diverting it elsewhere. He accused Birkbeck of writing letters to
                    fictitious people in 
                        England
                     in order to spread misstatements. Birkbeck replied that "there is something in
                    your character that throws a doubt on the motive of your statement." Cobbett's
                    consistency was questioned even by some of his admirers.90
            
            Cobbett's strictures drew replies not only from Birkbeck but from Richard Flower in two
                    collections of letters.91 The elder Flower recalled that he had heard Cobbett
                    say in 
                        New York
                     that he would "write down Birkbeck and the settlement." Had he
                    succeeded? Flower hoped the public would judge after they had perused the facts he
                        enumerated.92
            
            In attempting an evaluation of the success of the experiment undertaken by Morris Birkbeck and George
                    Flower, its purposes must be considered. Birkbeck had said their purpose was not to form a society
                    distinct from the people at large. Its chief purpose was to provide a haven for dis- 
                  
                     88
                            Ibid., 168–169. Some of the "speculators"
                            interested in discouraging emigration to 
                                Illinois
                             were Grece, who wrote Facts and Observations respecting 
                                    Canada
                                , and the 
                                    United States
                                 of America, for the purpose of encouraging settlement in 
                                Canada
                            ; C. B. Johnson, who was the author of Letters from the British
                                Settlement in 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                
                      (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1819); and John Lorain, who wrote Hints to Emigrants (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1819), devoted most of the book to an attack upon Birkbeck's
                            writings.
                  
                     89 William Cobbett made his attack in A Year's
                                Residence in the 
                                    United States
                                 of America (
                                London
                            , 1819). Cobbett did not visit the Settlement, but he included the journal of
                            his friend Thomas Hulme who did. Hulme's account is relatively unbiased. Cobbett is
                            most decidedly not so.
                  
                     90 Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards
                                County, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society Collections, I, 193–194.
                  
                     91 Richard Flower, Letters from 
                                    Lexington
                                 and the 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                London
                            , 1819), and Letters from the 
                                    Illinois
                                , 1820, 1821 (
                                London
                            , 1822). These pamphlets are reprinted by Edwin E. Sparks in The
                                English Settlement in the 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                London
                            , and Cedar Rapids, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1907). See also Reuben G. Thwaites (ed.), Early Western Travels,
                                1748–1846 (32 vols., 
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     ,
                            1904–1907), X (1904), 87–109, 111–169.
                  
                     92 Richard Flower, Letters from 
                                    Lexington
                                 and the 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 32.
               
                     tressed farmers and mechanics who saw no future hope of
                    prosperity in 
                        England
                    . The founders themselves did not prosper too well in the New World. Birkbeck, who died
                    in 1825, soon had none of his family living in the English Settlement–one daughter
                    remained in the 
                        United States
                     at 
                        New Harmony
                    . Wanborough has disappeared. George Flower in 1849 was forced to sell his house and
                    farm. He "and wife, his two youngest sons and youngest daughter, left 
                        Illinois
                    , never more to return as residents. They crossed the Great 
                        Wabash
                     with their household furniture and some family plate, with two dollars and fifty cents
                    in cash" to live in 
                        New Harmony
                    . In 1860 he was living in 
                        Mount Vernon
                    , Indiana, where he operated a hotel.93 During a visit to a
                    son's home in Grayville, 
                        Illinois
                    , both George Flower and his wife died on the same day, January 15, 1862.94
            
            George Flower reasoned that the Settlement had succeeded because large-scale speculation had been
                    prevented. The small farmer was enabled to buy land reasonably as the founders had intended. He
                    maintained that the prairies were better suited to English farmers than forest areas. There was also
                    "a happy proportion among the settlers of men of money, men of intelligence, and men of
                        toil."95 Many of the first settlers became independent farmers;
                    their children received a good inheritance. As Birkbeck had hoped, they were no different from the
                    people at large.
            A contemporary traveler, William Blane, commented judiciously upon the Settlement. "While at
                    Albion I read all the books and reviews that had been written both for and against this settlement.
                    One traveller describes it as an earthly paradise, another as a miserable unhealthy swamp; the truth
                    is about midway between these extremes."96
            
            
               
                  93 Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards
                            County, 
                                Illinois
                            
                  , 
                            Chicago
                         Historical Society Collections, I, 358–360; Lang,
                        "The Inhabitants of 
                            New Harmony
                         According to the Federal Census of 1850," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XLII, 386.
               
                  94 Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards
                            County, 
                                Illinois
                            
                  , 
                            Chicago
                         Historical Society Collections, I, 9–10.
               
                  95
                        Ibid., 349–353, 358.
               
                  96 Blane, An Excursion through the 
                                United States
                             and 
                                Canada
                            
                  , 157. In discussing the English Settlement some comment is required upon
                        the introduction written by Edwin E. Sparks to The English Settlement in the 
                                Illinois
                            . On page viii there are the following statements: "Desiring to
                        escape the authority of the Established Church, Birkbeck sent out the younger Flower in 1816 to
                        arrange for the purchase of some sixteen thousand acres of public land in what was known as
                        ‘the
            
            
            
               
                  
                            Illinois
                         country.’ In 1818 it became the State of 
                            Illinois
                        . One year later, Birkbeck brought his four children to his purchase, and Flower
                        returned to 
                            England
                         for his family." The religious reason was not listed as a major cause of
                        his emigration by Birkbeck. It must be questioned whether Flower was "sent" in
                        1816 upon such a mission; certainly there was no "purchase" to which Birkbeck
                        brought his family. Is 1819 intended as the date of arrival of Birkbeck in 
                            Illinois
                        ? On the next page is the comment: "Two miles to the eastward he
                        laid out a village which he called Albion." The only antecedent for the pronoun is
                        Birkbeck, who had nothing to do with the founding of Albion. On page x are the following
                        sentences: "George Flower, in 1818, brought over his father and several members of his
                        family, having previously married a ward of Birkbeck .… Upon arriving at Albion he
                        began the construction of a residence which he called ‘Park
                        House.’" Miss Andrews was never Birkbeck's ward. How could Flower
                        arrive at Albion, a town which he and others founded after his
                        arrival? Finally, on page xi one may read: "The failure of the English
                        settlements in 
                            Illinois
                        . …" Did it fail? In referring to some of the
                        writers, Sparks listed "Vaux, Woods, and other travellers. …"It may
                        be assumed that William Faux was intended for "Vaux." "In 1825
                        Birbeck was drowned in crossing a stream while making a visit to Robert Owen at his community of
                        Harmony." When was the name changed to 
                            New Harmony
                        ? He was returning from the visit, moreover. "George Flower
                        resided in 
                            Illinois
                         until 1862. …" Flower definitely stated that he and his wife
                        left 
                            Illinois
                         in 1849 never to return as "residents." George Flower's
                        name appeared in the census for 1850 as living in Indiana. See Lang, "The Inhabitants
                        of 
                            New Harmony
                         according to the Federal Census of 1850," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XLII, 386.
            
         
         
         
            Prosperity and Hard Times in the Whitewater Valley, 1830–1840
            
                    Chelsea L. Lawlis
                    ⋆
                
            The 
                        Quaker
                     migration to the Whitewater Valley, which had begun in the first decade of the
                    nineteenth century, was still an important factor in the migration of the 1830's. Even
                    though records show that there were only eighty-eight removal certificates to the four meetings in
                    the valley between 1831 and 1840, one author indicated that the movement was still of considerable
                    proportions during this decade.1 Charles F. Coffin, a 
                        Richmond
                        Quaker
                    , recalled that about 1834 there was a large emigration from North and 
                        South Carolina
                    , especially Friends. The main body came to 
                        Richmond
                     and vicinity, but others settled in 
                        Fountain
                     City (
                        Newport
                    ), Economy, 
                        Milton
                    , and a few at 
                        Centerville
                    .2 The Quakers were already an important element in the development
                    of the area. They were pictured as being chiefly farmers, very industrious, unassuming, and little
                    interested in public office.
            
                    The 
                            Quaker
                         population of Indiana are a frugal industrious people; they are mostly farmers and
                        mind nobody's business but their own. Look at their farms, their orchards, their
                        gardens, their cattle and horses, and you will see what they are about; they are among the best
                        practical farmers in the state; there is a neatness about all their premises .…
                        Though generally well informed, they make no parade of their knowledge; they are never found
                        intriguing for office … and yet no one sect among us are more firmly established in
                        their opinions; they seek for correct information .… they despise extravagance in
                        every thing; their barns are usually well filled and their houses abound in plenty; they drive
                        fat horses, live honestly, and are, finally, an honor to any state or country they inhabit.3
               
                
            Coffin revealed that, besides the 
                        Quaker
                     migration, 
                  
                     ⋆ Chelsea L. Lawlis is a member of the 
                                Carlisle
                             High School Faculty, 
                                Carlisle
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 Stephen B. Weeks, Southern Quakers and Slavery, A Study
                                in Institutional History, in Johns Hopkins University Studies in
                                Historical and Political Science (
                        Baltimore, Maryland
                     ,
                            1883- ), Extra Vol. XV (1896), 270. The four meetings were Whitewater, 
                                New Garden
                            , and 
                                Milford
                             in 
                                Wayne County
                             and Silver Creek in Union County.
                  
                     2Mary C. Johnson and Percival B. Coffin (coimps.), Charles F. Coffin, A 
                                    Quaker
                                 Pioneer (
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, 1923), 65.
                  
                     3
                            
                                Newcastle
                            , Indiana, Banner, quoted in Niles' Weekly
                                Register (
                        Baltimore, Maryland
                     , 1811–1837), L, 132
                            (April 23, 1836). Fred J. Bartel, whose work will be cited later, indicated that the Quakers
                            monopolized public offices in 
                                Richmond
                             at this time.
               
                     there was also a large influx to 
                        Wayne County
                     from 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    , the settlers going primarily to the southeast and central parts of the county. He
                    indicated that there were very few New 
                        England
                     or Eastern people.4 A few New Englanders, however, did settle in
                    the vicinity of 
                        Richmond
                     in the thirties.5
            
            The most outstanding development in foreign migration to the Whitewater Valley during this decade was
                    the arrival of large numbers of Germans, who settled principally in 
                        Franklin
                     and 
                        Wayne
                     counties. They were destined to become the most numerous foreign-born element in the
                    valley. Some of the Germans left their native land for economic reasons, particularly because of the
                    destruction of hand industries by the introduction of the factory system. Religious sects migrated,
                    especially the Old Lutherans of northern 
                        Germany
                    , to avoid being united with the Reformed churches. Still others fled because they were
                    political refugees from the revolution of 1830. The latter were usually university-trained men with
                    a zeal for liberty and democracy. The Germans regarded the West as a land of opportunity.6 Fred J. Bartel cited an example of a young man, David Haner, who came to 
                        Richmond
                     in 1838 after leaving 
                        Germany
                     to escape military service.7
            
            The great 
                        German
                     exodus of the 1830's served to increase the total amount of European
                    immigrants to a figure never before reached. In 1832 many Germans arrived at 
                        Baltimore
                    , and it was observed that they were a healthy, hardy, and industrious lot. AH came
                    plainly clad and some brought their own wagons and harness. The majority of them appeared to have
                    the means of conveying themselves to the interior.8 At about the same time large
                    numbers of Germans were observed passing through York, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , on their way to the West. The likelihood of an internal commotion 
                  
                     4 Johnson and Coffin, Charles F. Coffin, A 
                                    Quaker
                                 Pioneer, 65.
                  
                     5 Lois K. Mathews, Expansion of New 
                                    England
                                
                      (
                                Boston
                            , 1909), 201.
                  
                     6 Frederick J. Turner, The 
                                    United States
                                , 1830–1850 (
                                New York
                            , 1935), 281–282; Jacob W. Myers, "The Beginning of 
                                German
                             Immigration in the Middle West," Journal of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Society (
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     , 1908- ), XV (1922-1923), 595.
                  
                     7 Fred F. Bartel, The Institutional Influence of the 
                                    German
                                 Element in the Population of 
                                    Richmond
                                , Indiana, in the Papers of the 
                                Wayne County
                             , Indiana, Historical Society (1 vol. nos., 1 and 2, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, 1903–1904), I, no. 2, pp. 9–10.
                  
                     8
                            Nies' Weekly Register, XLIII, 40 (September 15, 1832).
               
                     within 
                        Germany
                     appeared to be the chief cause of their emigration. The 
                        German
                     farmers could not raise enough to pay their taxes. It was estimated that eighty
                    thousand Germans were preparing to leave 
                        Germany
                     for the 
                        United States
                    .8
            
            Germans migrating to 
                        Franklin County
                     at this time came to 
                  Brookville,
                            Highland
               , and Ray townships. In Ray
                    Township the majority were Catholics, who settled in and near Oldenburg and Enochsburg. The few
                    Protestants who migrated to this township chose sites near Huntersville. Not many came before 1836.
                    Among those arriving at this time were John H. Plaspohl and John H. Ronnebaum. Within a few years
                    after the beginning of the great 
                        German
                     migration thousands of acres of fresh land and formerly tilled land came under
                    cultivation in 
                        Franklin County
                    .10
            
            The construction of the bridge, by which the National Road crossed the Whitewater, attracted the
                    first 
                        German
                     immigrants to 
                        Richmond
                    .11 The first 
                        German
                     family to arrive in 
                        Richmond
                     was that of Bennett Baumer, Sr., who came from 
                  Hanover, Germany
               , in 1833. His son,
                    Bennett, Jr., had decided to leave 
                        Germany
                     to escape military service, so his father brought the family to America. They docked at 
                        Baltimore
                    , where the younger Bennett worked for about a year. The rest of the family came down
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     River to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and from there to 
                        Richmond
                    , then a town of less than one thousand.12 During the same year at
                    least five more young Germans came, John Peterson, Christopher Jurgens, Fred Lefker, Christopher
                    Klute, and Christopher Shofer. AH had crossed the ocean to seek their fortune because they were
                    dissatisfied with conditions in 
                        Germany
                    . Peterson was a stonemason, but most of them, as well as many of the future immigrants,
                    were farm hands.13
            
            In 1838 Bernhard Knollenberg and David Haner came. Hanner, who had fled to escape military service,
                    had gone to 
                  
                     9 York, 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , Republican quoted in Niles' Weekly
                            Register, XLIII, 68 (September 29, 1832).
                  
                     10 August J. Keif el, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1915), 165, 200.
                  
                     11
                            
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, Palladium, 1831–1931, 100th Anniversary
                            (January 1, 1931), 4.
                  
                     12
                            
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, Palladium, December 21, 1833, gave the population
                            as 2,000.
                  
                     13 Bartel, The Institutional Influence of the 
                                    German
                                 Element in the Population of 
                                    Richmond
                                , Indiana, 8–9.
               
                     Holland to work and had been able to save a sufficient amount
                    for steerage passage. In Holland he was joined by Knollenberg and they sailed together. The
                    latter's father had also earned money in Holland to pay for his son's passage.
                    Many 
                        German
                     emigrants owe their escape to their proximity to Holland, where it was possible to earn
                    enough money to pay for a trip to America. The majority of the early immigrants were from the
                    peasant class, who usually arrived nearly penniless. After their arrival in the 
                        United States
                    , they worked diligently and sent their savings to their relatives in 
                        Germany
                    .14
            
            Many of the 
                        German
                     immigrants who arrived in 
                        Richmond
                     were mere farm hands. Others were renters of small plots who had found it impossible to
                    improve their lot, because they were forced to work for the owner at any time he wished and for very
                    small wages. Only a very few had owned land in 
                        Germany
                     and even these were not able to purchase land upon their arrival. Many of them,
                    however, were able to buy a piece of land in a few years. This was, in a large measure, due to their
                    honesty and frugality. Most of the Germans possessed no definite trade when they arrived and were
                    also handicapped by their ignorance of English. Many, however, soon obtained employment in local
                    mills and shops.15
            
            There does not seem to have been any significant English migration during this period, although a
                    number of Irish arrived in the valley to work on the Whitewater Canal. Some Irish settled near 
                        Laurel
                    , in 
                        Franklin County
                     at this time.18 The chief causes of Irish emigration were poverty,
                    dissatisfaction in respect to public measures, or ambition. They were lured by unprincipled persons
                    who convinced them that they could obtain all they desired with little difficulty in America.
                    Letters from relatives and friends in America were an additional inducement. In addition,
                    associations were formed in certain parishes to facilitate emigration.17
            
            The thirties yielded a smaller increase in population than the previous decades, which indicates that
                    the extreme 
                  
                     14
                            Ibid.., 10–11.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 13–15.
                  
                     16 Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana, 481.
                  
                     17.Edith Abbott, Historical Aspects of the Immigration
                                Problem (
                                Chicago
                            , 1926), 79–81.
               
                     frontier had passed to more remote regions. It was estimated
                    that the increase from 1810 to 1820 was more than twenty thousand and that it amounted to a growth
                    of four hundred per cent. During the twenties it was only slightly in excess of nine thousand, which
                    was less than one hundred per cent of the population of 1820. In the thirties the increase totaled
                    8,676 which was less than twenty per cent. The forties were to witness an even smaller increase. It
                    is more than likely that many of the people of the valley were moving on to newer frontiers.
                    Practically all of the gain was in 
                        Franklin
                     and 
                        Wayne
                     counties and part of it can be attributed to 
                        German
                     immigration.18
            
            The valley in 1840 was still a young person's country. Eighteen per cent of the white people
                    were under five years of age, thirty-four per cent under ten, forty-seven per cent under fifteen,
                    fifty-nine per cent under twenty, seventy-six per cent under thirty, eighty-six per cent under
                    forty, ninety per cent under fifty, and only seven per cent over fifty years of age.19
            
            The immigrant coming to the Whitewater Valley in the thirties could avail himself of improved
                    transportation facilities, but even these provided only a minimum of comfort and involved frequent
                    hardships. J. M. Peck listed three routes of travel for people desiring to go to southern parts of 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana: first, from 
                        Philadelphia
                     to 
                        Pittsburgh
                     via railroads and the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Canal; second, from 
                        Baltimore
                     to 
                        Wheeling
                     by means of the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     Railroad and stages; and third, for people residing below 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., a stage route through 
                        Charlottesville
                    , Staunton, White Sulphur Springs, 
                  Lewisburg, Charleston
               , to
                    Guiandotte, from whence steamboats ran three times weekly to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The trip from 
                        Philadelphia
                     to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , a distance of 394 miles, on the Pioneer Line required four days at a cost of ten
                    dollars plus meals. Leech's Line carried both freight and passengers for seven dollars but
                    required five days to make the trip. A person was not to take more than a small trunk or two on the
                    packet lines. From 
                        Pittsburgh
                     passage could be had on a line to the mouth of the 
                        Ohio
                    . The steamboat fare from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                     was ten dollars, and deck passage could be obtained for three dollars.20
            
            
               
                  18
                  Sixth Census of the 
                                United States
                            , 1840, pp. 370–372.
               
                  19
                  Ibid.
               
                  20J. M. Peck, A New Guide for Emigrants to the West (
                            Boston
                        , 1836), 367–369, 372.
            
            
            Since the roads were better, the weather more favorable, and the food more plentiful in the autumn,
                    farmers were urged to move with their teams and wagons at this season of the year. The people who
                    lived south of the 
                        Ohio
                     River usually moved with large wagons, carried and cooked their own provisions, and
                    camped out at night. Travel to the interior was less costly if made on horseback. The expenses for a
                    person using this means of transportation usually varied from seventy-five cents to one dollar per
                    day. The stage fare was six cents per mile and stage house meals could be had for thirty-seven and
                    one-half cents.21
            
            Charles F. Hoffman, in A Winter in the West, gave a vivid description of emigrants
                    at 
                        Wheeling
                    . A covered one-horse wagon usually contained all the worldly goods of the emigrant
                    family. Tolls were so high on the turnpike and horses so cheap at the destination that rarely more
                    than one animal was used. One could see the head of the family walking by the horse, while the wife
                    might be walking beside her husband or bringing up the rear, watching out for the children. The road
                    was in a bad state of repair near 
                        Wheeling
                    . "The ruts are worn so broad and deep by heavy travel, that an army of pigmies
                    might march into the bosom of the country under the cover they would afford."22
            
            Joseph J. Gurney, a 
                        Quaker
                     minister, who toured the 
                        United States
                     at this time, stated that he had a comfortable journey of one hundred miles from 
                        Philadelphia
                     to 
                        Harrisburg
                     by railroad. There he entered a canalboat and traveled along the picturesque
                    Susquehanna and Juniata rivers. He and his fellow travelers ate heartily, three times a day. Gurney
                    marveled at the means by which they were transported over the Alleghenies.
            
                    Yesterday we passed over the Alleghany range of mountains by a wondrous railroad, consisting of a
                        series of levels and inclined planes, rising in all about 1400 feet from the first level. Along
                        the levels we were drawn by horses; up the inclined planes by ropes and pullies and steam power;
                        and are let down by similar ropes in the descent. It is a vast triumph of human art and
                        enterprize. At Johnstown, on the western edge of the Alleghanies, we again took the canal, and
                        are now upon it, on our way to 
                            Pittsburgh
                        , which we hope to reach this afternoon. The canal, on both sides of the Alleghany
                        mountains, 
                     
                        21
                                Ibid., 371–372.
                     
                        22 [Charles F. Hoffman], A Winter in the West (2
                                vols., 
                                    New York
                                , 1835), I, 44–45, 48.
                  
                         goes alongside of picturesque and beautiful rivers; in the
                        ascent, our companions … were the Susquehanna and the Juniatta; and now, in descent,
                        first the Conemaugh, now the Kiskiminitas, and we expect soon to reach the Alleghany.
                
            The 
                        Quaker
                     minister had planned to take a steamboat from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to 
                        Wheeling
                     but instead, he had to go by rowboat. From there he went by road to Mt. Pleasant, and
                    during the rest of his journey went by way of the National Road to 
                        Richmond
                    , via 
                        Zanesville
                    , Jackstown (Jacksontown), twenty-two miles west of 
                        Zanesville
                    , and 
                        Columbus
                    . He stated that the road was crowded with immigrants on their way to the West.23
            
            In 1838 stage travelers coming to Indiana from 
                        New York
                     and New 
                        England
                     were advised to go to 
                        Albany
                     by water, to 
                        Buffalo
                     via the 
                        Erie
                     Canal; from 
                        Buffalo
                     to 
                        Cleveland
                     by boat, on to 
                        Portsmouth
                     by the 
                        Ohio
                     Canal and down to 
                        Cincinnati
                     or Indiana landings by way of the 
                        Ohio
                     River. It was possible to come all the way by stage but not advisable if the traveler
                    had a considerable amount of luggage. Within Indiana the average cost of travel was a little less
                    than five cents a mile, and the stages traveled about seven or eight miles per hour.24
            
            The thirties witnessed the launching of the greatest project ever attempted in the Whitewater Valley,
                    the construction of the Whitewater Canal. Canal "fever" had appeared in the
                    Eastern states and the desire for a canal along the Whitewater River arose early. In 1822 or 1823 a
                    convention of delegates from 
                  Randolph, Wayne
               , Union, 
                  Franklin, Fayette
               , and 
                        Dearborn
                     counties met at Harrison, 
                        Ohio
                    , to consider building a canal. The leader of this group was Augustus Jocelyn, a
                    minister, and the editor and publisher of the Western Agriculturalist at 
                        Brookville
                    . Jocelyn utilized his paper to create an interest in behalf of internal improvements
                    within the valley.25
            
            The people of the valley drew up a petition for a canal in 1832. The General Assembly of 1833 ordered
                    a preliminary survey and the report of the work was made by J. L. Williams 
                  
                     23 Joseph B. Braithwaite (ed.), Memoirs of Joseph John
                                Gurney (2 vols, in one, 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1854), II, 97–100, 103.
                  
                     24E. I. Lewis, "Old Stage-Coach Days," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1905), III (1907), 21–22.
                  
                     25 Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana, 248.
               
                     and William Gooding, engineers, and presented to the
                    legislature, December 23, 1834. It stated that the valley was shallow and the fall excessive,
                    necessitating many locks. The length of the canal would be seventy-six miles and there would be
                    seven dams and fifty-six locks, all to be constructed at an estimated cost of $1,142,126.
                    When completed, the canal would afford an outlet for 
                        Franklin
                    , Rush, 
                        Fayette
                    , Henry, 
                        Randolph
                    , and 
                        Hancock
                     counties, and a large part of 
                        Wayne
                    , Union, 
                        Decatur
                    , and 
                        Delaware
                     counties. Produce could be transported at an average cost of $3.56 per ton,
                    as compared with ten dollars per ton, the prevailing cost.26
            
            Continued agitation and active support for the Whitewater Canal project led to its incorporation in
                    the Internal Improvements Act, which was approved January 27, 1836. Provisions for the canal were as
                    follows: "commencing on the west branch of the White Water River, at the crossing of the
                    National Road, thence passing down the valley of the same to the 
                        Ohio
                     River, at Lawrenceburgh, and extending up the said west branch of the White Water above
                    the National Road as far as may be practicable." This canal was to be connected with the
                    Central Canal by a third canal if practicable and, if not, by a railroad. A sum of one million four
                    hundred thousand dollars was appropriated for the project.27 Actual work on the
                    canal began September 13, 1836.28 The Liberty Star and Banner
                    of September 17, 1836, speaks of the momentous occasion at 
                        Brookville
                    : 
                        About 12 o'clock, a procession was formed, which proceeded to the place selected for
                            the delivery of the Oration; at which preparation was made for a large number to partake of
                            dinner. Arrived at the place designed for the purpose, Lieut. Gov. David Wallace, ascended
                            the stand and delivered an elegant and most appropriate Oration, in his usually fine and
                            captivating manner
                        Immediately after the Oration was concluded, the procession headed by His Excellency, the
                            Governor of Indiana, and a number of other distinguished friends of the work, with spades,
                            mattocks, wheelbarrow, etc. proceeded to the site of the Whitewater Canal, and amid the
                            thundering plaudits of the surrounding spectators, made the first break 
                        
                           26
                                    Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1884, pp. 255,
                                    344; Logan Esarey, "Internal Improvements in Early Indiana,"
                                    Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , Indiana, 1895- ), V (1915), 98–99.
                        
                           27
                                    Laws of the State of Indiana, 1835–1836, pp.
                                    6–21, see 7
                        
                           28 Esarey, "Internal Improvements in Early
                                    Indiana," Indiana Historical Society Publications, V,
                                    109; F. E. Weakley & Co., History of 
                                            Dearborn
                                         and 
                                            Ohio
                                         Counties, Indiana (
                                        Chicago
                                    , 1885), 128.
                     
                             in that fertile soil, which ere long is to be furrowed
                            by the Whitewater Canal, bearing on its bosom the wealth and produce of an enterprising and
                            prosperous people.29
                  
                    
            
            By December 15, 1837, the 
                        Brookville
                    -
                        Lawrenceburg
                     section was half completed and about a year later it was nearly completed to 
                        Brookville
                    .30 On June 8, 1839, the canal was opened when the "Ben 
                        Franklin
                    " came from 
                        Cincinnati
                    , carrying its first boatload of passengers to 
                        Brookville
                    .81 Although the state was bankrupt, the sum of $33,420
                    was spent keeping the canal in repair from August, 1839, to January, 1840.32
            
            Citizens living along the East Fork of the Whitewater were determined to secure a canal of their own.
                    The Indiana American of August 5, 1836, tells of a meeting to be held the
                    following day to discuss the construction of an East Fork Canal.33 On September
                    12, 1836, delegates representing 
                        Franklin
                     and 
                        Wayne
                     counties met at Dunlapsville to discuss the proposed canal. A survey was conducted in
                    1837, but bids were not let until 1839. The project was doomed to failure, however, and little
                    construction work was done.34
            
            It was hoped that the new canal would greatly increase the importance of the valley, and would
                    stimulate the rapid development of towns and cities. These aspirations were not destined to be fully
                    realized, although the canal did give an impetus to the growth of towns and industry. 
                        Franklin County
                     gained five new towns during this period, two of them, 
                        Laurel
                     and Metamore, being located along the canal route. The other three were 
                        Mt. Carmel
                    , Oldenburg, and Enochsburg. The last two towns were laid out by Germans in Ray
                        Township.35 It was indicated in a previous article that 
                        Brookville
                     had declined in importance because the land 
                  
                     29 Liberty, Indiana, Star and Banner, September 17,
                            1836.
                  
                     30
                            Journal of the Senate of Indiana, 1887, p. 208; Journal of
                                the Senate of Indiana, 1838, p. 256; Esarey, "Internal Improvements in
                            Early Indiana," Indiana Historical Society Publications, V, 109.
                  
                     31 Hubert M. Skinner, "
                                Brookville
                            's Rounded Century," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, VI (1910), 83.
                  
                     32
                            Journal of the Senate of Indiana, 1839, pp. 144–145; Esarey,
                            "Internal Improvements in Early Indiana," Indiana Historical Society Publications, V, 109.
                  
                     33
                            
                                Brookville
                            , Indiana, American, August 5, 1836.
                  
                     34
                     Laws of the State of Indiana, 1837, pp.
                            74–75; Laws of a Local Nature of the State of Indiana, 1838, p.
                            155; James M. Miller, "The 
                                Richmond
                             and 
                                Brookville
                             Canal," Indiana Magazine of History, I (1905),
                            189–194.
                  
                     35Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana, 146, 165, 180, 189.
               
                     office was removed to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but the prospect of a canal caused a revival of business.36
                    According to the Indiana Gazetteer or Topographical Dictionary of 1833, 
                        Brookville
                     had six hundred people, two gristmills, a sawmill, a cotton factory, a carding machine,
                    five stores, three taverns, four lawyers, three doctors, and a large number of artisans.37
            
            
               
                        Fayette County
                     gave birth to at least two new towns during the 1830's, 
                        Columbia
                     and Berlin. The latter was laid out in 1838 as a result of the building of the canal,
                    but it was not destined to grow very large.38 In 1833, another town in the
                    county, 
                        Connersville
                    , contained the following: "five hundred inhabitants, seven mercantile stores,
                    one drug store, four taverns, four lawyers, four physicians, and two printing offices, besides
                    mechanics of all kinds."39
            
            Union County, through which the canal did not run, only incorporated its county seat, Liberty, and
                    laid out one other town, Philomath, during this decade.⋆0 By 1833,
                    Liberty had five hundred inhabitants, a steam sawmill, four mercantile houses, two taverns, one
                    preacher, four lawyers, four physicians, and mechanics of all kinds.41
            
            In the last of the four counties, 
                        Wayne
                    , two new towns, 
                        Hagerstown
                     and 
                        Cambridge City
                     , were laid out and both were on the canal route.42
                    
                        Richmond
                     platted earlier was growing by leaps and bounds. In 1832 it had a population of 1,252
                    persons, and the next year it boasted an increase of 488.⋆
               3 The 
                  
                            Richmond
                         Palladium of December 21, 1833, gave the population as two thousand. Either
                    this was an unusually rapid growth or one of the publications was in error. An idea of the rate of
                    growth can be obtained from the following description:
            
               
                  36
                        Ibid., 200.
               
                  37 Douglass and Maguire, Indiana Gazetteer or Topographical
                            Dictionary (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1833), 41.
               
                  38 Frederic L. Barrows (ed.), History of 
                                Fayette County
                             , Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1917), 218, 221.
               
                  39 Douglass and Maguire, Indiana Gazetteer or Topographical
                            Dictionary, 53.
               
                  40 J. H. Beers and Co., Atlas of Union County, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1884), 29, 48.
               
                  41 Douglass and Maguire, Indiana Gazetteer or Topographical
                            Dictionary, 106.
               
                  42 Andrew E. Young, History of 
                                Wayne County
                             , Indiana (
                     Cincinnati,
                                Ohio
                  , 1872), 248, 280.
               
                  43 Douglass and Maguire, Indiana Gazetteer or Topographical
                            Dictionary, 149.
            
            
            
                    45 buildings are being erected; 70 to 100 erected during the forthcoming season; erection of the
                        bridge on the National road promises a busy time for mechanics and laborers; there is an
                        abundance of waterpower; within one and one-half miles of the city are 1 paper mill, 1 cotton
                        factory, 2 saw mills, 1 oil mill, and 5 large grist mills. Within 4 miles are 26 mills of
                        different descriptions.44
               
                
            One of the outstanding developments in the field of religion during this period was the alignment of
                    the Quakers with the antislavery movement which was rising in the North. It has been previously
                    indicated that the Quakers were one of the strongest sects in the valley, and the best organized. In
                    1836 the Indiana Yearly Meeting of Friends emphatically condemned colonization and gave their
                    sanction to unconditional emancipation.46 The yearly meetings in 1837 called its
                    members to action. "We would encourage all to a close examination as to what is required at
                    their hands, and how they may employ the talents committed to them for noble purposes in the
                    advancement of the blessed work of emancipation, by meekly, yet boldly, either publicly or privately
                    pleading the cause of the oppressed."46 A State Anti-Slavery Society of
                    Indiana was formed by a group of Friends in 1836, and in 1837 the 
                        Richmond
                     Anti-Slavery Society was organized, with John Sailor as president.47
            
            Although the Quakers resented the progress made by the Methodists in 
                        Wayne County
                     , some improvement in the relations between the two sects was evident at the close of
                    the decade. When Joseph Tarkington, a Methodist minister, came to 
                        Richmond
                     in the early thirties, he was welcomed by many of the best 
                        Quaker
                     families. That some friction still existed can be gained from the fact that very few
                    adults attended his services. "They could not think of listening to a paid minister, or
                    hear singing in worship; while, to them, the mourners'-bench was unbearable."48 From Tarkington's day on, relations between Friends and Methodists were 
                  
                     44
                            
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, Palladium, 1831–1981, 100th Anniversary
                            (January 1, 1931), 4.
                  
                     45 Walter Edgerton, A History of the Separation in the
                                Indiana Yearly Meeting of Friends (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     ,
                            1856), 34.
                  
                     46
                     Ibid., 35.
                  
                     47
                            Ibid., 41; 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, Palladium, 100th Anniversary (January 1, 1931), 34.
                  
                     48
                            Autobiography of Rev. Joseph Tarkington, One of the Pioneer Methodist Preachers
                                of Indiana (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1899), 46–47.
               
                     cordial, although it is not likely that he was altogether
                    responsible for this change.49 An innovation brought in by the Methodists was
                    their organization of the first sabbath school in 
                        Richmond
                     in 1831. They were followed by the Quakers, who organized a bible class the next year
                    which grew into a Sunday School.50 Farther down the valley the Methodists
                    organized the 
                        Brookville
                     Circuit, it being mentioned the first time in 1835.51
            
            One religious group, the Catholics, had its number of adherents increased because of the Irish that
                    came to work on the canal. This was especially true in 
                        Fayette
                     and 
                        Franklin
                     counties. Another factor contributing to Catholic development was the creation of a
                    Catholic bishopric at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1830, which sent missionaries to the valley.52 The Christian
                    denomination organized a church at 
                        Connersville
                     in 1833, and in the following year the congregation was honored by a visit from the
                    Christian leader, Alexander 
                        Campbell
                    . Three years later, a Christian church was established at Bentonville, 
                        Fayette County
                     .53 The Presbyterians founded the Harmony Church in 
                        Bath
                     Township, 
                        Franklin County
                    , in 1837, and another church at 
                        Brookville
                     in 1839." The 
                        German
                     settlers of 
                        Franklin County
                     wasted little time in forming congregations. In 1837 Catholics of 
                        Highland
                     Township began to erect a church, 
                        German
                     Catholics of Oldenburg formed the Church of the Holy Family, and the Lutherans
                    organized the first Lutheran church at Huntersville.56 In 1833 
                        Wayne County
                     contained seven religious sects, Quakers, Methodists, United Brethren, Baptists,
                    Dunkers, Universalists, and Presbyterians.56
            
            
               
                        German
                     immigration into the Whitewater Valley introduced new influences in the field of
                    education. They located their schoolhouses on the dorf or village system, and in their church
                    communities, schools were erected near the 
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., 48.
                  
                     50 Fernandez C. Holliday, Indiana Methodism
                                    (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1873), 192.
                  
                     51 Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana, 420.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., 481; Barrows, History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                 , Indiana, 449.
                  
                     53 Barrows, History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                 , Indiana, 423–425, 428.
                  
                     54 Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana, 443, 447.
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., 454, 470, 472.
                  
                     56 Douglass and Maguire, Indiana Gazetteer or
                                Topographical Dictionary, 190.
               
                     churches. These were either parochial or semiparochial in
                    character." Secular interests often prevailed in these schools in the Middle West,
                    especially in liberal churches where the chief object was to keep alive the 
                        German
                     language and culture.58 About 1833 or 1834 a young 
                        German
                     in 
                        Richmond
                    , John Stammeyer, collected a few pupils and opened a school. This was the first 
                        German
                     school in 
                        Richmond
                    , and it was maintained by the children's parents. Soon, when churches were
                    established, schools were set up in church buildings, and many of the early pastors served as
                    teachers. It is likely that 
                        German
                     was used exclusively for twenty years, and the instruction offered was nearly identical
                    with that being taught in 
                        Germany
                    .59
            
            The organization of seminaries, as provided for by the law of 1827, began in the late twenties and
                    continued in the thirties. The 
                        Brookville
                     seminary was started in the early part of the decade. This institution conducted
                    classes in spelling, reading, writing, arithmetic, geography, English, grammar, 
                        United States
                     history, ancient history, modern history, rhetoric, natural philosophy, algebra,
                    geometry, Greek, and Latin at prices from two to four and a half dollars a quarter. It was never
                    very prosperous since there was a movement on the direction of free schools.60
                    In 1833 the Western Union Seminary was formed at Philomath, Union County, by Universalists.81 Another important development in education during this period was the
                    establishment of the Friends' Boarding School in 
                        Richmond
                     in 1837 which was the forerunner of Earlham College.62
            
            A law of 1831 provided for the election of trustees and sub-trustees in the school districts and also
                    gave voters the right to determine whether or not school land was to be sold and a public school to
                    be built. A school commissioner 
                  
                     57 Michael Bossert, "Early Schools of 
                                Franklin County
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, XXVI (1930), 231.
                  
                     58 Carl E. Schneider, The 
                                    German
                                 Church on the American Frontier (
                        St. Louis, Missouri
                     , 1939), 279–280.
                  
                     59 Bartel, The Institutional Influence of the 
                                    German
                                 Element in the Population of 
                                    Richmond
                                , Indiana, 21–22.
                  
                     60
                     Laws of the State of Indiana, 1827, pp.
                            87–89; Bossert, "Early Schools of 
                                Franklin County
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, XXVI,
                            222–223.
                  
                     61 J. H. Beers and Co., Atlas of Union County,
                            Indiana, 13.
                  
                     62. Fassett A. Cotton, Education in Indiana
                            (Bluffton, Indiana, 1934), 85–86.
               
                     was to be elected in each county, whose duties included the
                    sale of school land.63 The census of 1840 revealed that the Whitewater Valley
                    contained eight academies and grammar schools, attended by 577 pupils, and 111 primary and common
                    schools, attended by 4,167 pupils.64
            
            The majority of newspapers during this period devoted much space to political issues. One of the
                    chief reasons for this was the political prominence of William Henry Harrison, the first governor of
                    Indiana Territory and the presidentelect in 1840. Henry 
                        Clay
                     and Martin 
                        Van
                     Buren also received considerable attention. In 
                        Fayette County
                     the Indiana Sentinel, a Whig paper, succeeded the Political Clarion in 1832, but it died during this decade. A Democratic paper, the Indiana Telegraph, began publication in 1840 in 
                        Fayette County
                     .66
            
            Papers of 
                        Franklin County
                     included the Indiana American and the People's
                        Friend, a Democratic paper begun in 1836 by Hutchen and Berry to advocate 
                        Van
                     Buren's election. The latter probably became the 
                  
                            Franklin
                         Democrat in 1838.⋆8 In Union County the Liberty Port-Folio had a brief existence as did the People's
                        Advocate and Political Messenger. The Liberty Star and Union County
                    Banner, begun in 1836, favored the election of Harrison and opposed 
                        Van
                     Buren.67 The 
                  
                            Richmond
                         Palladium started publication in 1831 and is still in existence. Begun by
                    Nelson Boon, it was a Whig paper until 1836. A group of 
                        Richmond
                     Democrats called the "Hickory Club" established the Jeffersonian in the latter year. In 1839 a literary paper, the Family
                        Schoolmaster, was started, but only thirty-four numbers were issued. At Center-ville Samuel
                    C. Meredith started the People's Advocate in 1835. Since it was
                    Democratic in politics, it was not popular in the county. Meredith, therefore, changed the name of
                    his paper to the 
                  
                            Wayne County
                         Chronicle and advocated Whig principles.68
            
            
               
                  63
                        The Revised Laws of Indiana, 1831, pp. 463–480; Interstate
                        Publishing Co., History of 
                                Wayne County
                             , Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1884), I, 469; Bossert, "Early Schools of 
                            Franklin County
                        ," Indiana Magazine of History, XXVI, 224.
               
                  64
                        Sixth Census of the 
                                United States
                            , 1810, pp. 371, 373.
               
                  65 Barrows, History of 
                                Wayne County
                             , Indiana, 465–467.
               
                  66 Reifel, History of 
                                Franklin County
                            , Indiana, 485, 488.
               
                  67 J. H. Beers and Co., Atlas of Union County, Indiana,
                        12–18.
               
                  68 Interstate Publishing Co., History of 
                                Wayne County
                             , Indiana, I, 527–528, 533; Young, History of 
                                Wayne County
                             , Indiana, 90–93.
            
            
            It has already been shown how the Whitewater Canal project bogged down in 1839 as a result of the
                    financial failure of the state. The 
                  
                            Richmond
                         Palladium during the years 1836 and 1837 indicated that hard times were at
                    hand. As early as September 10, 1836, the paper spoke of the scarcity of "hard
                    money," the latter being in the hands of large traders and land jobbers. Western banks
                    found it necessary to curtail their discounts, anticipating a run on their specie. By May 20, 1837,
                    the Eastern banks had stopped specie payment and even brokers from 
                        Cincinnati
                     had been relying on 
                        Richmond
                     for their supply of specie for speculation. On the same day in 
                        Richmond
                     the state branch bank suspended specie payment.89 By June 3, 1837, 
                        Richmond
                     was using "shin plasters." The paper contained the following account.
            
                    Messrs. Akin and Ward of this place have issued a small quantity of notes, of
                        6%-12%-25- and 50 cts to be redeemed in bankable currency. We regret as
                        much as any one can the necessity of the course; but small coin has become so scarce that it is
                        almost impossible to do without them .… Those who think it is wrong to encourage the
                        issuing of "shin plasters" are by no means compelled, or even asked to take
                        them; they are merely used for the convenience of those who think there is no particular danger
                        attached to them.70
               
                
            The hard times seem to have affected migration to the valley. The National
                        Intelligencer, Niles' Weekly Register, and the National Gazette had
                    frequently noted the large westward migration during the middle years of the thirties. These notices
                    became less frequent and were usually related to specific frontiers as 
                        Missouri
                    , 
                        Texas
                    , or 
                        Michigan
                    . The 
                  Wheeling, Virginia
               , Gazette was quoted as reporting
                    in June 1837: 
                        The number of steamboats belonging to the 
                                Ohio
                             River, its tributary streams, and the upper 
                                Mississippi
                            , varies not much from two hundred. Of these, between fifty and sixty are now
                            laid up at 
                                Pittsburgh
                            , about fifty at 
                                St. Louis
                            , and a number at 
                                Cincinnati
                            , leaving about sixty on the whole streams of the west. Of this number the small
                            portion that continue running have very little freight, and are not over burthened with
                                passengers.71
                  
                    
            
            In August of the same year, the 
                  Wheeling, Virginia
               , Times,
                    
                  
                     69
                     
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, Palladium, 1831–1981, 100th Anniversary
                            (January 1, 1931), 17. Specie payment was not resumed by the 
                                Richmond
                             bank until 1842.
                  
                     70
                     Ibid., 17.
                  
                     71
                            
                        Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
                     , The National Gazette, June 22,
                            1837.
               
                     lamented that "the river is in a stage for the
                    navigation of boats of the largest class, but alas they have little to do. …
                        "72 The National Intelligencer thought that some
                    of the European emigrants were "returning immediately whence they came," but that
                    immigrations into 
                        Missouri
                     were very great and constant." It also reported a considerable movement of
                    people to 
                        Michigan
                    .7⋆ Such reports were not altogether lacking in the
                    following years, but it does seem that the heavy movements had ceased. When the slower growth of
                    population in the Whitewater Valley during the succeeding decade is added to this newspaper
                    evidence, it must be concluded that the hard times of the late years of the thirties were
                    accompanied by a sharp drop in immigration.
            
               
                  72
                  Ibid., September 5, 1837.
               
                  73
                        
                            Washington
                        , D.C., National Intelligencer, August 5, November 4, and December
                        28,1837.
               
                  74
                  Ibid., June 14, 1837.
            
         
         
         
            Lambdin P. Milligan–A Knight of the Golden Circle
            
                    Florence L. Grayston
                    ⋆
                
            The Knights of the Golden Circle was a name that never failed to send the cold shivers down my spine
                    as a child. When my father would tell me the story, his own face would be covered with goose pimples
                    and I could scarcely breathe, although I had heard the story dozens of times.
            Years ago when my father was quite a small boy, one night after he had been sent to bed and was
                    supposed to be asleep, my grandmother happened to look toward the orchard which was at the rear of
                    the house. There she saw men apparently surrounding the house. Presently, there was a knock.
                    Grandmother opened the door and a man, with a mask covering most of his face, asked in a gruff voice
                    for "the doctor." Grandfather was quickly bundled up and satchels were put into a
                    small buggy. He was securely blindfolded and driven round and round for what he judged to be about
                    an hour. Finally, he was told to get out of the buggy. In an old barn on the straw were two men with
                    masks. One had a broken leg and the other a gun shot wound in the hip. After grandfather had taken
                    care of them, he was again blindfolded and driven home by the same circuitous route. He was
                    cautioned a number of times not to mention "this night's work" to a
                    living soul. Grandfather, however, was an observing person and could recognize his friends and many
                    of his patients by their hands as quickly as by their faces. It happened that he recognized the
                    hands of one of the men that he had attended. He never mentioned "this night's
                    work" except to the boys (his sons), even then he did not give the man's name. He
                    frequently said with a queer smile if the roll of membership of the Knights should ever be published
                    many people might be surprised.
            I received an old book The American Bastile and read the chapter on Colonel Lambdin
                    P. Milligan. This revived my interest. Then I re-read my mother's scrapbooks which included
                    clippings from old papers and contacted several friends of the family. One was a little blind
                    hostler who 
                  
                     ⋆ Miss Florence L. Grayston is an assistant in the City
                            Library, 
                                Huntington
                            , Indiana.
               
                     had been in charge of Milligan's race horses for many
                    years. Another was Samuel E. Cook, judge of the circuit court. and once a partner of Milligan. He
                    told me that many people from all over the country had written him wanting to know more about the
                    man, but he never answered their letters. He volunteered, however, to tell me anything I wanted to
                    know.
            Inasmuch as the Milligan case was quite famous because of the decision given by the Supreme Court, it
                    is natural that we would want to know something of the character and background of the man. Lambdin
                    P. Milligan was of sturdy Irish ancestry, who came to this country with the 
                        Baltimore
                     colony. His father, Moses Milligan, settled with his parents at 
                  Brownsville, Pennsylvania
               , in 1774. Later, his family accompanied a surveying party to
                            
                  Jefferson County, Kentucky
               , and afterwards he served with the 
                        Virginia
                     Rangers. His grandfather, John Purdy, was a member of the Irish Grays called the
                    "Heavy Dragoons," a brave and fierce outfit whose members were required to be over
                    six feet in height. His mother, Mary Purdy, a Virginian, came from pioneer stock. She was in the
                    blockhouse at 
                  Wheeling, Virginia
               , when it was attacked by the Indians. Her brother
                    and his family were entirely wiped out in this massacre. Lambdin's father and mother both
                    attended the celebration of Independence at Fort Pitt, July 4, 1776. Shortly after his parents had
                    moved to Belmont, 
                        Ohio
                    , Lambdin was born on March 24, 1812. He was the eighth child in a family of nine
                    children. His boyhood was spent on his father's farm where the trials and adventures of the
                    then frontier life had much to do with shaping his career. His father was a great reader and had a
                    good library for that day. At an early age, therefore, Lambdin formed a decided taste for good
                    reading. Although his opportunities were limited, he managed to get enough education to teach school
                    for a number of years. His father, proud of his attainments, promised to educate him for the medical
                    profession on condition "of good conduct and faithful labor." When the time
                    arrived, his mother objected saying, it was not fair to the other children to make a distinction in
                    their education. His father then offered to repay him in money and land, but Lambdin refused and
                    left home regardless of the wishes and the threats of his father.
            At the age of twenty-one, he had given up the idea of  a medical
                    career and started to read law in the office of Shannon and Alexander at St. Clairsville, 
                        Ohio
                    . He passed the examination, at the head of a class of nine members, on October 27,
                    1835. In his class were Thomas West, George Shannon, and Edwin M. Stanton, later Secretary of War,
                    who was vitally connected with Milligan's later career.
            On the day of his admission to the practice of law in the 
                        Ohio
                     Court, he married Sarah L. Ridgeway, who died on November 20,1870. There were three
                    sons born to this union, Moses, Lewis, and James. Milligan was a tall man six feet and four inches
                    in height with a light complexion and blue eyes. He was always neatly dressed and frequently
                    appeared in a frock coat and high hat. He was associated with the "Legal Lights"
                    of the 
                        Ohio
                     courts for ten years, and it was here that he became the Colonel of the National
                    Guards. He came to 
                        Huntington
                     County, Indiana, in 1845. His first home was on a farm near Monument City on the
                    Salamonie River, where he hoped to regain his health. For several years he had suffered much from
                    epilepsy and spinal meningitis which caused a partial paralysis of the lower limbs. He had
                    sufficiently recovered in 1860 and continued to practice law in 
                        Huntington
                     and 
                        Wabash
                     counties. He rose rapidly to become one of the foremost lawyers in northern Indiana
                    comparing favorably with David H. Colerick, William H. Coombs, John U. Pettit, and Daniel Pratt and
                    was frequently associated with John R. Coffroth in the conduct of cases. As a lawyer he was earnest,
                    direct, logical, and clear, endeavoring to convince rather than please, but was much too frank to
                    have ever become a successful politician.
            He came to this county when it was practically a wilderness and sparsely settled. His close touch
                    with public affairs afforded him an acquaintance with all the people in the country. He identified
                    himself with the improvements of the new country. He was interested in the Liberty Mills Road, an
                    enthusiastic promoter of the 
                        Wabash
                     Railroad, and he had been president and attorney for the 
                        Chicago
                     and Atlantic (now 
                        Erie
                    ) Railroad. He was interested in the work of the 
                        Huntington
                     County Agricultural Society for a number of years and took pride in his farming and
                    stock raising. He was a lover of blooded horses and kept a stable of fine race horses. The outline
                    of his training track is still well defined at the rear of the estate. He was at one time deputy
                    clerk  and many of the records are found in his handwriting. He
                    was a member of the Catholic church and during his vigorous days a faithful attendant and supporter
                    of the church. In politics, he was always a Democrat and a student of the teachings of Jefferson and
                    Jackson. He was interested in national and local politics and took a firm stand against all
                    movements and combinations which he considered as opposing the general welfare
            Across the bed of the old 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Erie
                     Canal, just off the Maple Grove Road, south of Mount Hope Cemetery, stands the home of
                    Milligan. A rambling house, almost on the bank of the Little River. The thin limestone slabs of the
                    original structure are retained in what is now the kitchen. The front of the house is weatherboarded
                    with wide poplar boards still in good condition. Here he often entertained his friends, and it was
                    his particular delight to invite members of the bar or intimate friends to dine with him. He was a
                    splendid conversationalist, his reminiscences of events of his life and times, and the meetings with
                    Henry 
                        Clay
                     and Andrew Jackson were regarded by his guests as an unusual pleasure. Judge Cook
                    recalled his last big dinner party given to the bar and mentioned the delicious young pig roasted
                    and served with the apple in its mouth. The Milligans were very hospitable, and it was not uncommon
                    for them to serve fifty people at their home on the days of a political rally.
            Milligan opposed with great energy every movement looking toward a collision between the North and
                    the South in 1861. He addressed numerous meetings at 
                        Plymouth
                    , Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , and other cities in 1863 and 1864. He was of the opinion that the war had not been
                    begun to preserve the Union, but advocated a Union restored by negotiation rather than war and
                    denounced military arrests, conscriptions, emancipation, and other war measures. He was a candidate
                    for governor in 1864 and became known all over the state. At the nominating convention he was
                    defeated by Joseph McDonald, but he continued to make stump speeches for the campaign. Detectives
                    reported his speeches and soon the Republican Press teemed with denunciatory articles, charging him
                    with treason. Henry L. Zumro, a special detective, was appointed early in 1864 to watch him. He was
                    to visit Milligan for counsel, gain his confidence, and learn his personal sentiments. Zumro knew
                    Milligan was connected in some way  with the organization known
                    as the Knights of the Golden Circle. A part of the plan was to have Zumro arrested
                    on some political charge. A military officer from a distant part of the state was sent to 
                        Huntington
                     and the arrest of Zumro was made with great formality.1
            
            The "Knights of the Golden Circle," "American Knights," and
                    "Sons of Liberty" were all terms used to describe Democrats, who opposed the war
                    policy of President 
                        Lincoln
                    . "Copperheads" was another term used during the Civil War which
                    appeared in 
                        Maryland
                     as early as July, 1861, and within a year the word was in common usage.2 They were also known as "Butternuts" for some of the members came from the
                    backwoods, their homespun garments were dyed with the juice of the butternut, and the women often
                    wore broaches carved from the nuts to signify that they were Southern sympathizers.
            The Knights of the Golden Circle was first organized on July 4, 1854, at 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , for action in the slave labor states, and the members pledged
                    themselves to help establish an empire. The empire was to extend as far west as 
                        St. Louis
                    , as far east as 
                        Baltimore
                     and to include all of Central America and much of 
                        Mexico
                    , thus forming a vast realm around the Gulf based on cotton and slavery.8
            
            
               
                  1 Personal interview with the late Samuel E. Cook on February 17, 1946,
                        then a resident of 
                            Huntington
                        , Indiana; 
                            Huntington
                        , Indiana, Herald, December 21 and 22,1899; 
                            Huntington
                        , Indiana, News Democrat, December 21 and 22, 1899; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Press, December 21, 1899; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Daily Sentinel, December 22, 1899; Charles W. Taylor,
                            Biographical Sketches and Review of the Bench and Bar (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1895), 554–557; A Biographical History of Eminent
                            and Self-Made Men of the State of Indiana (2 vols., 
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
                  ,
                        1880), II, 11th District, 31; John A. Marshall, American Bastile. A History of the
                            Illegal Arrests and Imprisonment of American Citizens during the Late Civil War (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1879), 71–72; Indiana, A Guide to the Hoosier State
                        (American Guide Series, 
                            New York
                        , 1941), 315.
               
                  2 Charles H. Coleman, "The Use of the Term
                        ‘Copperhead’ during the Civil War," 
                     
                                Mississippi
                             Valley Historical Review (Cedar Rapids, 
                            Iowa
                        , 1914- ), XXV (1938-1939), 263–264; Edward C. Smith, The
                            Borderland in the Civil War (
                            New York
                        , 1927), 329; Charles Roll, Indiana (5 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1931), II, 231.
               
                  3 Mayo Fesler, "Secret Political Societies in the North during
                        the Civil War," Indiana Magazine of History (
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, 1905- ), XIV (1918), 185–224, gives 
                            Cincinnati
                         as the place of organization. C. A. Bridges, "The Knights of the Golden
                        Circle: A Filibustering Fantasy," Southwestern Historical Quarterly
                        (Austin, 
                            Texas
                        , 1897- ), XLIV (1940-1941), 287–302; Ollinger Crenshaw, "The
                        Knights of the Golden Circle," American Historical Review (
                            New York
                        , 1895- ), XLVII (1941-1942), 23–50; Oliver T. Morton, The
                            Southern
               
            
            
            Indiana was divided into four sections, using the National Road as a division line, east and west,
                    and another line north and south, passing through the center of the state. Each section was to be
                    under the command of a major general, who was subordinate only to supreme commander, Clement
                        Vallandigham.4
            
            The unit which Henry L. Zumro joined came to be called the "Men's Bible
                    Class" but no one knows if the name was taken to conceal the real identity or assigned in
                    derision, because it received a shipment of pistols labeled "Sunday School Books."
                    Meetings were held in barns and schoolhouses and were called "temples" and
                    "castles" by the members. Zumro wormed his way into the organization and climbed
                    to the position of grand secretary and by his efficiency, almost singlehanded, stopped the delivery,
                    and turned over the chief officers to the government, thereby frustrating one of the most ingenious
                    schemes of the war. Previously, he had saved the lives of eight hundred Negroes on a train by his
                    "inside information."5
            
            A mass meeting of Democrats was called for May 20, 1863, in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Several of the speakers could not attend and the burden of ortary fell on Daniel
                    Vorhees, then a congressman from Indiana, and Thomas A. Hendricks, 
                        United States
                     senator from Indiana. While Hendricks was speaking, a squad of blue-coated soldiers
                    appeared on the scene. The crowd broke up, and after the meeting adjourned there was considerable
                    confusion on the streets. As the evening trains were leaving 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the revolvers were kept busy. The trains were searched. On one of the trains three
                    hundred men were held, fully armed, and when discovered they tried to conceal the guns on the women
                    of the party. One woman 
                  
                     Empire (
                                Boston
                            , 1892), 4–5; William D. Foulke, Life of Oliver P.
                                Morton (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1899), I, 376; Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (2
                            vols., Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, 1924), II, 778–779; William H. Smith, The
                                History of the State of Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1903), II, 83.
                  
                     4Benn Pitman (ed.), The Trials for Treason at 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1865), 324: U. S. Lesh, A Knight of the Golden Circle (
                                Boston
                            , 1911), 194; Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton, I, 396.
                  
                     5 Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton, I, 406n;
                            unidentified clipping in Grayston Scrapbook, 
                                Huntington
                            , Indiana; Julia H. Levering, Historic Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1910), 309; Smith, History of the State of Indiana, II,
                            87–88; Lesh, A Knight of the Golden Circle,
                        221–222.
               
                     was taken from the train with seven guns hidden in her
                        clothes.6
            
            When the South was about ready to give up the conflict, after the battles of 
                        Gettysburg
                     and Vicksburg, its spirit was rejuvenated by the knowledge that the
                    "knights" had plans all set for the delivery of forty thousand Confederate
                    prisoners in Camp Douglas, 
                        Chicago
                    , and other Northern states. Plans were also made for delivery over to the Confederacy,
                    the states of 
                        Illinois
                    , 
                        Missouri
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Ohio
                    . So strong were the forces of the order and so secret were the movements and scheme of
                    the officers that the government was at a loss to know how to stop them. The chiefs of the order met
                    in 
                        Chicago
                     and decided upon the date and program for this huge delivery.7
            
            The members of the order in 
                        Illinois
                     were to concentrate at 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Rock Island
                     and release the rebel prisoners in Camp Douglas and 
                        Rock Island
                    . They were to seize the arsenals at those places and at 
                        Springfield
                     and thoroughly arm and equip the released prisoners. The three divisions in 
                        Illinois
                     were to seize railroads that would carry the group to available points in 
                        Missouri
                    . In 
                        Missouri
                     they were to join a force called the "Sons of Liberty." The combined
                    forces from 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Missouri
                     together with the released prisoners were to co-operate with the Confederate forces of
                    twenty thousand men that Jefferson Davis had sent into 
                        Missouri
                     under the command of Confederate General Sterling Price.8
            
            Similar plans for the delivery of prisoners in Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     were discovered. The Knights favored the South in every possible way. They would meet
                    and aid the Morgan raiders, who came across the 
                        Ohio
                     River with about twenty-five hundred mounted men to pillage the southern counties. They
                    compelled women to prepare meals for them and stole horses by the hundreds and everything of value
                    that they could take along. When Governor Oliver P. Morton heard the 
                  
                     6
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily State Sentinel, May 21 and 22, 1863; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, May 21, 22, and 23, 1863; Easrey,
                                History of Indiana, II, 781–783.
                  
                     7 Felix G. Stidger, Treason History of the Order of Sons
                                of Liberty … succeeded by Knights of the Golden Circle (
                                Chicago
                            , 1903), 97, 111, 116, 118.
                  
                     8
                     Ibid., 111–112; unidentified clipping in
                            Grayston Scrapbook, 
                                Huntington
                            , Indiana; Foulke, The Life of Oliver P. Morton, I,
                            412–413
               
                     news, he immediately issued a military order for all
                    able-bodied men to take up arms and form into companies, and in forty-eight hours there were twenty
                    thousand men ready for service. Morgan soon discovered that he was in a hornet's nest, so
                    instead of keeping on towards the Capitol as he had intended, he marched eastward and was compelled
                    to retreat into 
                        Ohio
                     where most of the raiders were killed or captured.90
            
            A general uprising was planned for the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                     on August 16, 1864. On that date a Democratic mass meeting was to be held just outside
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and near Camp Morton. The major generals of the organization of the Sons of Liberty
                    were to order every available man of the organization to attend the mass meeting. They were to come
                    armed to the best of their ability, come in wagons or other vehicles with their arms concealed in
                    the beds and covered with hay or straw which they were to use for feeding their animals. In the
                    evening at a particular signal each man was to get his arms and fall in line for immediate
                        action.10 If the movements had been carried out, it is likely that the war
                    might have been prolonged.
            By order of Brevet Major-General Alvin P. Hovey, a military commandant of the district of Indiana
                    arrested Milligan at his home on October 5, 1864. A train had been backed from 
                        Indianapolis
                     at night to the tracks beside his home to prevent any interference because Milligan was
                    a popular figure in 
                        Huntington
                    . William A. Bowles of French Lick, Horace Heffren of 
                        Salem
                    , and Stephen Horsey of Shoals were also arrested. In the trial Heffren turned
                    state's evidence and was released after he had accused Bowles, Milligan, and Horsey of
                    plotting to kidnap Oliver P. Morton and hold him as hostage during the insurrection planned for
                    August 16. All three men were convicted of treason and sentenced to be 
                  
                     9Smith, The History of the State of Indiana, II,
                            96–101; Esarey, History of Indiana, II, 771–775;
                            Levering, Historic Indiana, 310, 314–323; Cecil F. Holland, Morgan and his Raiders (
                                New York
                            , 1943), 218–220, 231–241; Margrette Boyer,
                            "Morgan's Raid in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, VIII (1912), 149–165; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, July 7, 8, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16,
                            18, 20, 21, and 22, 1963; Basil W. Duke, History of Morgan's
                            Calvary (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1867), 431–444; Basil
                            W. Duke, Morgan's Calvary (
                                New York
                            , 1909), 317–326; Louis B. Ewhank, "Morgan's Raid
                            in Indiana," Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1895- ), VII (1923), 131–184.
                  
                     10 Esarey, History of Indiana, II,
                            788–789; Stidger, Treason History, 112–113, 115,
                            131, 132, 136–137, 197; Pitman, Trials for Treason at 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 101; Lesh, A Knight of the Golden Circle,
                            200–201, 278.
               
                     hung. Milligan was placed on trial before a military commission
                    which convened at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on October 21. General Silas Colgrave was the president of the commission. Milligan was
                    charged with 1) conspiracy against the government of the 
                        United States
                    , 2) affording aid and comfort to rebels against the authority of the 
                        United States
                    , 3) inciting insurrection, 4) disloyal practices, and 5) violation of the laws of war.
                    John R. Coffroth, his friend in the 
                        Huntington
                     County Bar, was his attorney before the commission. Milligan entered the plea of not
                    guilty and also a special plea that the commission had no jurisdiction to try and sentence him, as
                    he was not a resident of one of the rebellious states, nor a prisoner of war, nor a soldier, but a
                    citizen of Indiana, arrested at his home by a military power. A motion for a separate trial was
                    overruled. The trial lasted until the early part of December, resulting in his conviction, and he
                    was sentenced to be hanged on May 19, 1865, between the hours of twelve and three on the parade
                    grounds between Camp Morton and Burnside Barracks, near 
                        Indianapolis
                    .11
            
            When a copy of the record was taken to President 
                        Lincoln
                     in December, 1864, he declared that he could find nothing to justify the finding as
                    against Horsey and Milligan and promised that when the official record reached him, he would
                    disaffirm the finding and set Horsey and Milligan at liberty. Bowles he said should be sent across
                    the line to his Southern friends until the close of the war. The official record never was presented
                    to 
                        Lincoln
                     because he was assassinated in April before he could act on the request that the
                    sentence be commuted. Andrew Johnson, however, approved the sentence and ordered that it be carried
                    out without further delay. A petition for the writ of habeas corpus was filed in the 
                        United States
                     Circuit Court in the District of Indiana on May 10.12
            
            The judges of the Circuit court were divided and the case was certified to the Supreme Court of the 
                        United States
                     in banc. At the hearing of arguments, J. E. McDonald, J. S. Black, J. H. Garfield, and
                    David Dudley Field were counsel for the petitioner and Attorney General Speed, Special At- 
                  
                     11
                            Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wallace 2; Marshall, American
                            Bastile, 73, 79; 
                                Huntington
                            , Indiana, News Democrat, December 21, 1899; Pitman, Trials for Treason at 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 74–77, 194.
                  
                     12
                            
                                Huntington
                            , Indiana, Herald, December 22, 1899.
               
                     torney H. M. Stanberry, and B. F. 
                        Butler
                     were the counsel for the 
                        United States
                    .13
            
            In the meantime, after he had filed his petition for the writ of habeas corpus on the eighteenth of
                    May, an order was read to him postponing his execution until June 2, 1865. Friends who had attempted
                    to petition for him were forced to desist. Finally, Morton recognized the critical situation and
                    commissioned J. U. Pettit of 
                        Wabash
                     to visit President Johnson and protest against his execution of the sentence. This was
                    on the day before the date set for the execution. The scaffold had already been erected by rebel
                    prisoners. Milligan had given up hope of being released and had sent word for the family to be
                    prepared for the worst. He selected his pall bearers and made all arrangements for his funeral.14Milligan stated, 
                        a few days before the date set for my execution at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , my wife visited 
                                Washington
                            . A card from Judge McCulloch to Mr. Stanton obtained for her an interview with
                            the Secretary of War. She was courteously received and although the interview was brief,
                            Mrs. Milligan left his presence with full assurance that I would not be executed. Mr. Pettit
                            had an interview with President Johnson, but the President gave no sign of interference and
                            Mr. Pettit was thoroughly disheartened. In the meantime word was received from 
                                Indianapolis
                            , about three P.M. from the War Department, and before the interview at 
                                Washington
                             was over, ordering the commutation of the sentence. If President Johnson ever
                            did consent to the commutation, it was after Secretary Stanton had issued the order,
                            redeeming his promise to Mrs. Milligan.16
                  
                    
            
            Milligan was informed that his sentence had been changed to life imprisonment at hard labor in the 
                        Ohio
                     Penitentiary. He was taken to 
                  Columbus,
                            Ohio
               , immediately.
            
                    After my sentence had been commuted, I was taken to 
                     Columbus, Ohio
                  , for
                        confinement. For the purpose of annoying me, I suppose, I was assigned a place at the table of
                        all colored men. This was, no doubt, regarded as a joke but it did not disturb me in the least
                        Whenever there were distinguished visitors at the Prison, Dr. Bowles and myself were invariably
                        paraded before them. The first quarters given me were exceedingly unhealthy and I fell sick and
                        was sent to the hospital. I was transferred to the "Idle House" but on account
                            
                     
                        13
                        Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wallace 2.
                     
                        14 Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton, I, 375,
                                427–431; The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official
                                    Records of the Union and Confederate Armies (70 vols., 
                                    Washington
                                , 1880–1901), Series 2, III 1899), 583–588,
                                637–639.
                     
                        15
                                
                                    Huntington
                                , Indiana, Herald, December 22, 1899.
                  
                         on my physical condition, the officers could not
                        "sell me," that is, dispose of my services to prison labor contractors and I
                        was assigned to the position of hospital doctor. I knew nothing of medicine, but had been
                        confused with a Dr. Milligan at one time a member of the Indiana Legislature and imy denial was
                        not believed. I had some knowledge of chemistry and as the duty was largely clerical, I got
                        along satisfactorily. I recollect my first case, a young man suffering from toothache. In vain I
                        protested that I had never drawn a tooth. The guard threatened severe punishment if I
                        didn't pull the tooth–so I fished out an old pair of turnkeys and proceeded
                        to business. I pulled two teeth instead of one, but fortunately the aching tooth was one of
                            them.16
               
                
            The conditions in the prisons then must have been unspeakable according to an account in the American Bastile.
            
            
                    He was put into a small cell, near a pork-house and the hog-yard, and the stench emitted from
                        these together with the squealing of the hogs not yet slaughtered, combined to render the place
                        horrible. There were four persons in the cell with him, but it had been occupied by a much
                        larger number, and was as filthy as it could possibly be. On some occasions when the rations
                        were served, the Colonel could not get to the cubby-hole as quickly as the servant thought he
                        ought, and for that reason he threw his rations into the filth on the floor. He was taken sick
                        and conveyed to the hospital. …17
               
                
            Milligan seldom referred to his experiences as a military prisoner and when he did there was little
                    trace of bitterness in his manner. Once a mutual friend was introducing him to a stranger visiting
                    in the city, and the stranger replied "Milligan did you say. Let me see the name is
                    familiar, were you a member of Congress once?" "No Sir" was
                    the reply, "I was in the State Prison." In an interview given to the Herald, Milligan said that he was in prison eighteen months.
            
                    I owe the commutation of my sentence to Secretary of War, Edwin Stanton. Although Governor Morton
                        and the Honorable Joseph McDonald, who was my attorney, had interested themselves in my behalf,
                        I should have probably been hung, but for Stanton. Mr. Stanton and I were early friends. We were
                        admitted to the practice of law at the same time, at the same bar, and he was a frequent visitor
                        at my home while I was a resident in 
                            Ohio
                        .18
               
                
            Milligan's contention before the military commission was that if he had offended, he had the
                    right to demand a trial by jury in the civil courts, and that he was not subject to 
                  
                            16
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     17 Marshall, American Bastile, 77, 81.
                  
                     18
                            
                                Huntington
                            , Indiana, Herald, December 22, 1899.
               
                     the jurisdiction of the commission. The decision of the Supreme
                    Court of the 
                        United States
                    , sustained his position on every point. It is the leading case upon the question
                    involved and fully settled that the civil law is superior to military law in all places where the
                    civil courts can be opened. The court said that a military commission has no jurisdiction legally to
                    try and sentence one not a resident of one of the rebellious states, nor a prisoner of war but a
                    citizen of Indiana, who was never in the military or naval service, but while at his home was
                    arrested and imprisoned on certain criminal charges preferred against him, tried, convicted, and
                    sentenced to be hanged by a military commission organized under a military commander of the military
                    district of Indiana. In a state where the federal authority was always open to hear criminal
                    accusations and redress grievances, no usage of war could sanction a military trial for any offense
                    whatever of a citizen in civil life, in no way connected with the military service. Congress could
                    grant no such power. The right of trial by jury is preserved to everyone accused of a crime who is
                    not attached to the army, navy, or militia in actual service. Martial law cannot arise from a
                    threatened invasion. The necessity must be actual and present, the invasion real, such as
                    effectually closes the courts and deposes the civil administration. If the military trial of
                    Milligan was contrary to law, then he was entitled on the facts stated in his petition, to be
                    discharged from custody by the terms of an act of Congress of March 3, 1863.19
            
            After the result of the case had become known, Milligan returned to 
                        Huntington
                     on April 12, 1866. His return was marked by celebrations at numerous points along the
                    journey and a grand celebration was given in the city in honor of his home-coming. The day was
                    ushered in by the roar of a cannon and at an early hour, people began to flock from every direction.
                    An address of welcome was made by Mayor William C. Kocher, and Milligan, although almost prostrated
                    by ill health, responded. He was then escorted to his residence a mile from the courthouse, and the
                    public meeting was continued all day, until late in the evening. Speeches were made by distinguished
                    men from all parts of the country, who had assembled to welcome him home.20
            
            
               
                  19
                        Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wallace 2; 
                            Huntington
                        , Indiana, Newe Democrat, December 21, 1899.
               
                  20 Marshall, American Bastile, 87–91.
            
            
            Milligan soon returned to his practice of law in 
                        Huntington
                     County. He was indicted by the Federal Court at 
                        Indianapolis
                     by the Grand Jury in May, 1866, on the same charge on which he had been tried by the
                    military commission but was allowed to go on bail. The case was not pressed and was afterwards
                    dismissed. Milligan brought suit in the spring of 1868 against the military commission and others
                    for damages for his imprisonment. The case was tried in May, 1871, with Thomas Hendricks as the
                    leading counsel and Benjamin Harrison as the leading attorney for the defense. The jury returned a
                    verdict in his favor for the sum of five dollars.21
            
            Milligan having returned to his profession continued to live in his old home. He married Mrs. Maria
                    L. Cavender, a daughter of Marshall Humphrey, at the time a resident of the city on August 12, 1873.
                    He continued to practice law actively until October 27, 1897, sixty-two years after he had been
                    admitted to the Bar. In recent years the Milligans had made it their custom to live on the farm in
                    the summer and in winter to make their home in a flat near their son, Moses, in the Milligan Block
                    in town.
            Milligan died on December 21, 1899, from infirmities of old age at the home of his son Moses in the
                    Milligan Block. He had been confined to his bed since early fall and was not able to attend the
                    funeral of his wife on September 9.22
            
            The death of Milligan brought to a close a life of an unusual and forceful personality. Perhaps we do
                    not agree with his point of view concerning the Civil War, but we should remember he was a
                    Southerner and his sympathies were with the South, but as one citizen remarked "Yes a
                    southerner–but he should have stayed there and fought WITH them." He believed in
                    "the cause" and stood four square even in the shadow of the gallows. Many of the
                    members fled into 
                        Canada
                    , including the once Supreme Commander Vallandigham. Some turned state's
                    evidence while others repudiated their part in the organization, but when Milligan was offered
                    pardon he said, "I do not want pardon –I have done nothing I would not do
                    again."
            
               
                  21 Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton, I,
                        431–432.
            
         
         
         
            Editor's Page
            The 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley Historical Association will hold its annual meeting April 22–24,
                    1948, in 
                  Rock Island, Illinois
               . Since this meeting is in a neighboring state and not far
                    distant from Indiana, our own state should again be well represented. The number of persons from
                    Indiana who attended the meetings of this society the last two years was a subject of frequent and
                    favorable comment. History teachers in our high schools, colleges, and universities find these
                    meetings stimulating and helpful. The program is rapidly being completed with sessions planned on
                    such subjects as the Old Northwest, the New 
                        Lincoln
                     Papers, Dramatic Political Leaders, Colonial America, the Imperial School of Colonial
                    Historians, Military History, Railroad History, the South, Latin-American History, and the Trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West. Ralph P. Bieber's presidential address will be on some phase of the 
                        California
                     Gold Rush of 1848–49. There will be special programs on Saturday for high
                    school teachers which will stress the teaching of local history and the place of Historical Method
                    in General Education. These sessions will be held jointly with the 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Iowa
                     Councils of the Social Studies. Other co-operating societies include the Southern
                    Historical Association, the Economic History Association, and the Agricultural Historical
                Society.
         
         
         
            Documents
            THE EXPEDITIONS OF MAJOR-GENERAL SAMUEL HOPKINS UP THE WABASH, 1812 THE LETTERS OF CAPTAIN ROBERT
                    HAMILTON
            When the War of 1812 began, Indiana was an exposed frontier. It was inadequately protected by Fort
                    Harrison near where 
                        Terre Haute
                     was to arise, Fort 
                        Dearborn
                     at the site of 
                        Chicago
                    , and Fort 
                        Wayne
                     at the head of the Maumee River. Far to the north Fort Mackinac was taken by the
                    British, July 17. The evacuation of Fort 
                        Dearborn
                     and the massacre of many of its troops occurred on August 15, and on the next day 
                        Detroit
                     was surrendered to General Isaac Brock by General William Hull. The war was then
                    carried into Indiana. The Pigeon Roost massacre took place south of a line drawn from 
                        Vincennes
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and Forts Harrison and 
                        Wayne
                     were attacked, all in the first week of September. Panic seized many of the
                    frontiersmen, but the forts were held and troops of militiamen and volunteers came from 
                        Kentucky
                    . Among these was a Captain Robert 
                        Hamilton
                     from Bourbon County.
            Major General Samuel Hopkins of the 
                        Kentucky
                     militia soon had four thousand men under command. He advanced from 
                        Vincennes
                     to Fort Harrison early in October and on the fifteenth marched from the latter
                    supposedly on his way to Prophetstown. Evidently he was ambitious to "clear out all the
                    Indian tribes" along the 
                        Wabash
                     and Illinois rivers. After four days of marching the morale of the
                    army broke and on the twentieth it started to return to Fort Harrison, not having seen or met the
                    enemy. 
                        Hamilton
                     referred to sickness among the soldiers when they were encamped at 
                        Vincennes
                     and at Fort Harrison. There were many desertions just before the army left the fort.
                    Discontent became widespread on the fourth day of its march. A grass fire probably started by the
                    Indians and a mistake by the guide were evidently used as pretexts to return. The men were
                    discharged at Busseron, 
                        Hamilton
                     on October 30.
            While Hopkins was on this ill-fated expedition, Colonel William Russell with two companies of
                    regulars marched to the 
                        Illinois
                     River where he assisted Governor Ninian Edwards of 
                        Illinois
                     Territory in an attack on the Kickapoo town at Lake 
                        Peoria
                    .
            
            Hopkins, however, was not willing to be defeated by his own men for he organized a smaller army and
                    in November marched to Prophetstown. Captain Zachary Taylor, who was then in command of Fort
                    Harrison and who later became President of the 
                        United States
                    , led a detachment of regular troops. Three towns including Prophetstown were destroyed
                    and a small engagement was fought with the Indians. Cold weather seemingly prevented a larger
                    battle. The army left Fort Harrison on the eleventh of November and returned before the end of the
                    month.
            The letters of Robert 
                        Hamilton
                     give evidence of the low morale of the volunteers who participated in the first
                    expedition. His company was inactive in camp at 
                        Vincennes
                     and at Fort Harrison from September 25 to October 15. 
                        Hamilton
                     thought that the delay was due to improper conduct of the head officer. The quotation
                    from Niles' Register mentioned excessive rains. Hopkins blamed the failure on the
                    men and named only one officer as involved in the disaffection. The officer condemned was not
                    Captain 
                        Hamilton
                    . From Hopkins' letter to Governor 
                        Shelby
                     and from the letters of 
                        Hamilton
                    , it is evident that the privates chose the lesser officers and that the commanding
                    officer was dependent upon the pleasure of the lesser officers. Hopkins second foray into Indian
                    country was more successful, although it was not crowned with a victorious battle. Perhaps it
                    indicated that the failure of the first was not to be explained simply by improper conduct of the
                    commanding officer.
            When William H. Harrison went to the relief of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , he too experienced the faults of the militia system. He wrote of "the
                    impolicy of relying upon Militia, for the prosecution of the war."1 The
                    next year Harrison carried the war into 
                        Canada
                     and so relieved the Indiana frontier.
            The quotations from Niles' Weekly Register are reprinted in order to place the
                    letters of Captain 
                        Hamilton
                     in their proper setting. They serve also to confirm, supplement, and, perhaps, to
                    correct the impressions of 
                        Hamilton
                    . It is interesting that his troops reached 
                        Vincennes
                     over the 
                        Buffalo
                     Trace.
            
               
                  1 Logan Esarey (ed.), Messages and Letters of William Henry
                            Harrison (2 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, VII and IX, 1922),
                        II, 405.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Polly 
                                        Hamilton
                                     wife of Robert 
                                        Hamilton
                                     living on McBride Creek Bourbon County 
                                        Kentucky
                                     to the post office at Millers Burgh
                        
                           
                                        Vincennes
                                     30 Sept–
                        
                                    
                              Vincenns Indi taritory
                           
                                    Sept 30th 1812
                                
                        affectioned wife & children I take this oppertunity of leting you know that I
                                    am well through the mercy of kind providence; trusting in God that these lines may
                                    find you all well: I left home the 16th of this [?] and encampt with in
                                    fore miles of 
                                        Georgetown
                                    ; 17th day I passed through 
                                        Georgetown
                                     and 
                                        Frankfort
                                     & encampt on fork of Benson, 18th I went through Shelbievill
                                    and encampt at Capt Taylors 19th I passed through 
                                        Middletown
                                     & Leuisville; & crossed the ohio river and encampt on
                                    the bank of the river. Sunday the 20th I marched 30 miles and encampt at the forks
                                    of blue river; 21st I marched 32 miles and encampt 2 miles from the french lick 22nd
                                    I passed through Sd lick & crossed the east fork of white river and encampt
                                    2 miles in this side 23 I crossed the east fork of white river & encampt
                                    6–1/2 miles from the place; 24th day I marched into vincenns &
                                    stayd untill evining & marched out 2 miles & encampt and my campt
                                    was allermed by Indians on sd night, at which time my men acted with a great deal of
                                    courage; 25th day agreeab[le] to general orders I marched into town and had all our
                                    horses guns & aquipigeges valued by two [distinterested?] men on
                                    oath made a return to the inspector general; and marched 2 miles up the river wabash
                                    and encampt at the head of the mounted volunteer line, 26th day lay in campt; 27th I
                                    made out 3 muster roles & marched my company into town & was
                                    inspected by the inspector general & was [received?] into the
                                    united Staes weasteren army under the command of Major General Samuel Hopkins; 28th
                                    day my company lay in camp & attened my Self at vincenns to elect our Major
                                    29th day my company lay in camp I attened at vincenns to Elect our Colonel the day I
                                    have recead general orders to march at 10 oclock for the Stoney profets town their
                                    is 2100 mounted riflemen & 1800 foot men– we have one
                                    sixpounder–ther is upwards of one hundred men lying in the osptlle at
                                    this place of the six months men from Ky–three men died the last 24
                                    hours; one was buried with the honors of war–the; people in this country
                                    is all livig in forts except the Town the Indians is very troublesome now when I
                                    shall return home is very uncrten the Lord onely knows the route we expect to take
                                    is or follows 1st to the profets town, 170 miles; 2nd to – towns a long
                                    side of lake meshaga 3rd–over into the Illinnoise river where there is 7
                                    or 8 Indians towns and then home; I dont expect to get home before the last of
                                    november, you will not gether John Keiths corn make every other necessary prepation
                                    for the winter Season–I have been well eversince I left home onely
                                    troubled with the tooth eake, my Company are all well–my zeal &
                                    anciety to do Something [for my] country is so great that in the day it over comes
                                    all my [?] troubles but at night when my thoughts returns home to you
                                    & the children & to the things belonging to God my cheeks are often
                                    wet with tears if oppertunity offers I will write again——I
                                    will bid fare well one more Robert 
                                        Hamilton
                                     N B tell John Eward I have seen Moses & Steward Michell they
                                    are boath well
                        
                                    R Hamilton
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Fort Harrison Indianne Tarritory
                           
                                    Octo 12th 1812
                                
                        Dear Polly I once more Sit down to let you know that I am well therough the mercys of
                                    God–it would be too teaddiou for me to let you know the reasons why we
                                    are detaind her I shall onely say it is through improper conduct of our head office
                                    there is agreat many Sick and 200 deserted and I expect hundreds more will desert
                                    this day and tomorrow–we expect to march this evining or to morrow
                                    morning for the Illinnois River–it is about 150 miles to the Illinnoise
                                    river where there is three verry numerrous tribes of Indians liv[ing] we drew
                                    provition for ourselves & forrege forrege for our horses–we have
                                    a very good Presbiterian Preacher of our Chapling by the name of Gray
                                    –tell Charrity 
                                        Hamilton
                                     Misses Burnaugh & Misses Ruth [Keith] that thir Sons are all
                                    well when I shall re[tur]n home again God onely knows though my [duty] is far from
                                    you my thoughts is uppon you I think the Lord is about to accomplish some thing
                                    perhaps a Scouge; I feel perfectly resigned that the will of the Lord should be
                                    don–time would fail me to write any more–tell all my good
                                    friends for me that I am well–I would bid you and the children fare well
                                    perhaps for the last time——-
                        
                                    Robert Hamilton2
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        A letter from Gen. Hopkins, dated at 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , Sept. 29, to governor 
                                        Shelby
                                    , says–"My present intention is to attack every
                                    settlement on the 
                                        Wabash
                                    , and destroy their property, then fall upon the 
                                        Illinois
                                    ; and I trust in all the next month to perform much of it. Serious
                                    opposition I hardly apprehend, although I intend to be prepared for it."
                                    Excessive rains had prevented gen. H. from acting with that rapidity he desired. The
                                    probability is that he will clear out all the Indian tribes within
                                    the great scope he has marked out for his operations. Sad the necessity, as
                                    detestable the influence, that compels the extirpation of the
                                    greater portion of this unfortunate race of men, within our territories.3
                        
                        It is reported that gen. Hopkins, with 2000 mounted volunteers, has returned to 
                                        Vincennes
                                     after a fruitless excursion in hunt of the savages–having
                                    seen only three on his route. He was about to start for the Prophet's
                                    settlements on the 
                                        Wabash
                                    , with his men dismounted. So says the report.4
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Frankfort
                                 , (Ken.)
                           
                                    Nov. 7, 1812.
                                
                        
                                    Copy of a letter from major-general Hopkins, to his excellency governor 
                                            Shelby
                                        , of 
                                            Kentucky
                                        , dated,
                                
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    
                                                    
                                          Fort Harrison,
                                       
                                                    6th Oct. 1812.
                                                
                                    
                                       My dear sir–The expedition of the
                                                    mounted riflemen has terminated. 
                                          
                                             2 These letters of Robert 
                                                            Hamilton
                                                             were contributed by Mrs. Mary F. 
                                                            Hamilton
                                                             of 
                                                            Indianapolis
                                                            , Indiana. Robert 
                                                            Hamilton
                                                             was born June 17, 1768, in 
                                                            Pennsylvania
                                                            . He emigrated to Bourbon County, 
                                                            Kentucky
                                                            , with his parents in 1789. He enlisted
                                                            September 18, 1812, and was discharged on October 30.
                                          
                                             3
                                                            Niles' Weekly Register (1811-1837,
                                                            
                                                Baltimore, Maryland
                                             ), III,
                                                            170–171 (November 14, 1812).
                                          
                                             4
                                             Ibid., Ill, 190
                                                            (November 21, 1812).
                                       
                                                     The 
                                                        Wabash
                                                     was recrossed yesterday, and the whole corps are on
                                                    their way to Busseron, where the adjutant-general will attend, in
                                                    order to have them properly mustered and discharged; and where their
                                                    horses may get forage during the delay necessary for this object.
                                    Yes, sir, this army has returned, without hardly obtaining the sight
                                                    of an enemy. A simple narrative of facts, as they occurred will best
                                                    explain the reasons that have led to this state of things, The army
                                                    having finished crossing the 
                                                        Wabash
                                                     on the 14th inst. marched about three miles and
                                                    encamped. I here requested the attendance of the general and field
                                                    officers and captains, to whom I imparted the objects of the
                                                    expedition and the advantages that might result from a fulfilment of
                                                    them. The nearest Kickapoo villages were from eighty to one hundred
                                                    miles distant, and the 
                                                        Peoria
                                                     not more than one hundred and sixty. By breaking up
                                                    these, or as many as our resources would permit, we would be
                                                    rendering a service to all the territories. That from their numbers,
                                                    this tribe was more favorable than any near us; and from their
                                                    situation and hostility, had it more in their power to do us
                                                    mischief; of course to chastise and destroy these, would be
                                                    rendering real benefit to our country. It was observed by some
                                                    officers, that they would meet the next morning, consult together
                                                    and report to me their opinions; desiring at the same time to be
                                                    furnished with the person on whom I had relied for intelligence of
                                                    the country.
                                    This council was held, and all the intelligence furnished that had
                                                    been requested, and I had a report highly favorable to the
                                                    enterprize. This, to me, was more gratifying, as early as our
                                                    encampment at 
                                                        Vincennes
                                                    , discontents and murmurings, that portended no wish to
                                                    proceed further. At Busseron, I found an evident increase of
                                                    discontent, although no army was ever better or more amply supplied
                                                    with rations and forage than at this place. At Fort Harrison, where
                                                    we encamped on the 10th, and where we were well supplied with
                                                    forage, &c. I found on the 12th and 13th many breaking off
                                                    and returning without applying to me for a discharge, and as far as I know, without any notification to
                                                    their officers: Indeed I have every reason to suppose the officers
                                                    of every grade, gave no countenance to such a procedure.
                                    Thinking myself now secure in the confidence of my brother officers
                                                    and the army, we proceeded on our march early on the 15th, and
                                                    continued it four days, our course near north in the prairie until
                                                    we came to an Indian house, where some corn, &c. had been
                                                    cultivated. The last day of the march to this place, I had been made
                                                    acquainted with a return of that spirit of discontent, that had, as
                                                    I had hoped, subsided, and when I had ordered a halt near sunset,
                                                    (for the first time that day) in a fine piece of grass in the
                                                    prairie, to aid our horses, I was addressed in the most rude and
                                                    dictatorial manner, requiring me immediately to resume my march, or
                                                    his battalion would break from the army and return!–This
                                                    was a major Singleton! I mention him in justice to
                                                    the other officers of that grade. But from every information, I
                                                    began to fear the army waited but for a pretext to return! This was
                                                    afforded next day by our guides, who had thought they had discerned
                                                    an Indian village on the side of a grove about ten miles from where
                                                    we encamped on the fourth night of our march, and
                                                    turned us about 6 or 8 miles 
                                                    out of our way. An almost universal discontent seemed to prevail,
                                                    and we took our course in such a direction as we hoped would best
                                                    atone for the error in the morning. About or after sun-set, we came
                                                    to a thin grove affording water; here we took up our camp; and about
                                                    this time arose one of the most violent gusts of wind I ever
                                                    remember to have seen, not proceeding from clouds. The Indians had
                                                    set fire to the prairie, which drove on us so furiously, that we
                                                    were compelled to fire around our camp, to protect ourselves. This
                                                    seems to have decided the army to return: I was informed of it so
                                                    many ways, that early in the next morning (Oct. 20th) I requested
                                                    the attendance of the general and field officers, and stated to them
                                                    my apprehensions, the expectations of our country, the disgrace
                                                    attending the measure, and the approbation of our own
                                                    consciences.–Against this, I stated the weary situation
                                                    of our horses and the want of provisions, (which to me seemed only
                                                    partial, six days having only passed since every part of the army,
                                                    as was believed, was furnished with ten days in bacon, beef or bread
                                                    stuff) the reasons given for returning; I requested the commandants
                                                    of each regiment to convene the whole of the officers belonging to
                                                    it, and to take fully the sense of the army on this measure; report
                                                    to commandants of brigades, who were requested to report to me in
                                                    writing; adding that if 500 volunteers would turn out, I would put
                                                    myself at their head, and proceed in quest of the towns; and the
                                                    balance of the army might retreat in safety to
                                                    Fort Harrison. In less than one hour the report was made almost
                                                    unanimously to return. I then requested that I might dictate the
                                                    course to be pursued that day only, which I pledged myself should
                                                    not put them more than six miles out of the way, my object being to
                                                    cover the reconnoitering parties, I wished to send out for the
                                                    discovery of the Indian towns. About this time the troops being
                                                    paraded, I put myself in front, took my course and directed them to
                                                    follow me; the columns moving off quite a contrary way. I sent
                                                    captain Taylor and major Lee to apply to the officers leading the
                                                    columns, to turn them. They were told it was not in their power. The
                                                    army had taken their course and would pursue it. Discovering great
                                                    confusion and disorder in the march, I threw myself in the rear,
                                                    fearing an attack on those who were there from necessity, and
                                                    continued in that position the whole day. The exhausted state of the
                                                    horses, nor the hunger of the men retarded this day's
                                                    march; so swiftly was it prosecuted that it was long before the rear
                                                    arrived at the encampment. The generals Ray, Ramsey and Allen, lent
                                                    all their aid and authority in restoring our march to order, and so
                                                    far succeeded, as to bring on the whole with much less loss than I
                                                    had feared; indeed I have no reason to think we were either followed
                                                    or menaced by an enemy. I think we march at least 80 or 90 miles in
                                                    the heart of the enemy's country: had he possessed a design
                                                    to fight us, opportunities in abundance presented. So formidable was
                                                    our appearance in the prairie, and in the country (as I aim told)
                                                    never trod before by hostile feet, must impress the bordering tribes
                                                    with a sense of their danger. If it operates beneficially in this
                                                    way, our labor will not be altogether in vain.
                                    I hope the expence attending this expedition will be found less than
                                                    usual on such occasions. I have consulted economy in every instance;
                                                         subject only to real
                                                    necessity has been the expenditure; the forage has been the heaviest
                                                    article.
                                    To the officers commanding brigades, many of the field officers,
                                                    captains, &c. my thanks are due; many of the old 
                                                        Kentucky
                                                     veterans, whose heads are frosted by time, are entitled
                                                    to every confidence and praise their country can bestow. To the
                                                    adjutant, quarter-master-general, and the members of my own family,
                                                    I feel indebted for ready, able and manly support, in every
                                                    instance. Let me here include our friend George Walker, our judge
                                                    advocate general; who lived with me, took more than a common share
                                                    of fatigue and toil, and who did all in his power to further the
                                                    service in the corps of spies and guides, under the direction of
                                                    major Dubois, and the two companies of 
                                                        Kentucky
                                                     and Gwatkin, who encamped near me, and were under my
                                                    immediate orders. I experienced an alertness and attention highly
                                                    honorable to them: These corps were ready to have gone on to execute
                                                    any service; the whole amounted to about 120, and deserve honorable
                                                    mention.
                                    Mr. Barron and Messrs. Lacelly and Le Plant, interpreters and guides,
                                                    deserve well of me; I aim certain we were not 20 miles from the
                                                    Indian village when we were forced to retire, and I have many
                                                    reasons to prove we were in the right way.
                                    I have myself (superadded to the mortification I felt at thus
                                                    returning) been in a bad state of health from first to last; and am
                                                    now so weak as not to be able to keep myself on my horse.
                                    A violent diarrhea has pursued me 10 days past, and reduced me
                                                    extremely low; I had resolved to continue with the line of march a
                                                    little, if unable to ride. There are yet many things of which I wish
                                                    to write; they relate substantially to prospective operations. Soon
                                                    again shall I have the honor to address your excellency, in the mean
                                                    time be assured of the perfect consideration and high regards of
                                                    your obedient friend and servant.
                                    
                                                    SAMUEL HOPKINS
                                                
                                    
                                                    Governor 
                                                            Shelby
                                                        .
                                                    5
                                                
                                 
                              
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              LEXINGTON, (Ky.)
                           
                                    Nov. 13.
                                
                        
                           Extract of a letter from a gentleman in Russelville to the editor of the
                                        Reporter, dated Nov. 11, 1812.–
                        "Inclosed you have a detail of a battle fought with the Indians on the
                                        Illinois river, which I have copied from a piece handed to
                                    the printer in this place. I have no doubt of its correctness."
                        
                           Important.–We have received information from the 
                                        Illinois
                                     territory which we deem correct, stating col. William
                                        Russell of the 7th U. S. regiment, has defeated a party of Indians at the 
                                        Peoria
                                     towns. It will be recollected that general Hopkins ordered colonel
                                    Russell with two companies of rangers, from 
                                        Vincennes
                                     and to take the command of the regular troops and militia of the 
                                        Illinois
                                     territory, to march up the Illinois river. The
                                    colonel collected a force of about 400 men, with 
                              
                                 5
                                 Ibid., Ill, 204–205
                                            (November 28, 1812). The date of this letter must be a misprint.
                           
                                     which by rapid marches he got within one mile
                                    of the Indian town, where he met one warrior who was shot down, and a brisk charge
                                    made upon the town defended by about 150 Indian warriors, who were put to flight
                                    with the loss of 25 found dead, besides a number carried off.
                        The women and children fled to a swamp at the first approach of our men, and the
                                    warriors soon took shelter under the same covert. We had only three men wounded.
                                    Four prisoners were taken, and about 60 horses prepared to remove the women and
                                    children with all their plunder fell into our hands. It appears that the Indians of
                                    the neighboring towns had heard of gen. Hopkins crossing the 
                                        Wabash
                                    , and 700 warriors marched to meet him, leaving 150 in charge of the
                                    women and children, who were preparing to move off when col. Russell arrived about
                                    10 o'clock in the morning. He destroyed every thing in the town which he
                                    could not bring away, and left it on the same evening; 7 scalps taken in September,
                                    near Fort Harrison, and also several Indians wounded during the late attack on that
                                    place, were found in the town.
                        It appears that the expedition of gen. Hopkins, has had the good effect of drawing
                                    the attention and force of the Indians from the Illinois river,
                                    which afforded col. Russell an opportunity of surprising and destroying their
                                        towns.6
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Copy, of a letter from major-general Samuel Hopkins to his excellency
                                        governor 
                                            Shelby
                                        .
                                
                        
                                    
                              "On 
                                    Wabash
                                 , near the mouth of Pine Creek,
                           
                                    Nov. 27, 1812.
                                
                        MY DEAR SIR–
                        By Col. Richard Taylor, quarter-master general, who goes on as quick as possible to 
                                        Frankfort
                                    , I have it in my power to give you general information of the movements
                                    of the army since my last.
                        On the 11th the army marched from Fort Harrison on the road formerly made by governor
                                    Harrison's army, and the boats set out at the same time. The length of time
                                    the enemy had expected us made it necessary to guard ourselves in an especial
                                    manner. The rise of the waters, from the heavy fall of rain preceding our march, and
                                    some large creeks, left us no doubt of considerable difficulty and embarrassment;
                                    insomuch that not until the 14th did we pass Sugar creek, three miles above the
                                    road.
                        From every information, I had no hesitation in moving on the east side of the 
                                        Wabash
                                    . The Vermillions, Pine; Creek, and other impediments on the west side,
                                    superadded to the presumption that we were expected, and might more easily be
                                    annoyed and ambuscaded on that rout, determined me in this measure. The boats too,
                                    with our provisions of rations, forage and military stores, could be more easily
                                    covered and protected, as the line of march could be invariably nearer the river.
                                    Lieutenant-colonel Barbour, with one battalion of his regiment, had command of the 7
                                    boats, and encamped with us on the bank of the river almost every night. This so
                                    protracted our march that we did not reach the Prophet's town until the
                                    19th. On the morning 
                              
                                 6
                                            Ibid., 205.
                           
                                     of this day I detached 300 men to surprize the
                                    Winebago town lying: on Ponce Passu creek, one mile from the 
                                        Wabash
                                     and four below the Prophet's.–This party, commanded
                                    by general 
                                        Butler
                                    , surrounded the place about break of day, but found it evacuated. There
                                    were in the main town about forty houses, many of them from 30 to 50 feet in length,
                                    besides many temporary huts in the surrounding prairie, in which they had cultivated
                                    a good deal of corn. On the 20th, 21st and 22d we were embarked in the complete
                                    destruction of the Prophet's town which had about 40 cabins and huts, and
                                    the large Kickapoo village adjoining below it on the west side of the river,
                                    consisting of about 160 cabins and huts; finding and destroying their corn,
                                    reconnoitring the cirmcumjacent country, and constructing works for the defence of
                                    our boats and army. Seven miles east of us, on the Ponce Passu creek, a party of
                                    Indians were discovered; they had fired on a small party of ours on the 21st and
                                    killed a man by the name of Dunn, a gallant soldier in captain Duval's
                                    company. On the 22d upwards of 60 horsemen, under the command of lieutenant-colonels
                                    Miller and Wilcox, anxious to bury their comrade as well as gain a more complete
                                    knowledge of the ground, went on to a point near the Indian encampment, fell into an
                                    ambuscade, and 18 of our party killed, wounded and missing. Among these are three
                                    hopeful young officers and one private from the 8th (Wilcox's) regiment,
                                    viz. Mars, Edwards, Murray, and the private Webb, presumed to be killed; the other
                                    14 were of the rangers. On the return of this party, and the information of a large
                                    assemblage of the enemy, who, encouraged by the strength of their camp, appeared to
                                    be waiting for us, every preparation was made to march early and engage the enemy at
                                    every risque; when, from the most violent storm and fall of snow, attended with the
                                    coldest weather I ever saw or felt at this season of the year, and which did not
                                    subside until the evening of the 23d, we were delayed until the 24th. Upon arriving
                                    on the ground, we found the enemy had deserted their camp before the fall of the
                                    snow, and passed the Ponce Passu. I have no doubt but their ground was the strongest
                                    I ever have seen–the deep rapid creek spoken of was in their rear,
                                    running in a semi-circle, and fronted by a bluff 100 feet high, almost perpendicular
                                    and only to be penetrated by three steep ravines. If the enemy would not defend
                                    themselves here, it was evident they did not intend fighting at all. After
                                    reconnoitring sufficiently, we returned to camp, and found the ice so accumulated as
                                    to alarm us for the return of the boats. I had fully intended to have spent one more
                                    week in endeavoring to find the Indian camps; but the shoeless, shirtless state of
                                    the troops, now clad in the remnants of their summer dress; a river full of ice; the
                                    hills covered with snow; a rigid climate, and no certain point to which we could
                                    further direct our operations; under the influence of the advice of every staff and
                                    field officer, orders were given and measures pursued for our return on the 25th.
                        We are now progressing to Fort Harrison through ice and snow where we expect to
                                    arrive on the last day of this month. From 
                                        Vincennes
                                     I shall have the honor of addressing your excellency again; but before
                                    I close this, I cannot forbear expressing the merits of the  officers and soldiers of this command. After leaving
                                    [at] Fort Harrison all unfit for duty, we had in privates of every corps about one
                                    thousand –in the total twelve hundred and fifty or thereabout. At the
                                    Prophet's town, upwards of one hundred of these were on the sick report.
                                    Yet, sir, have we progressed in such order as to menace our enemy, free from any
                                    annoyance; seven large keel-boats have been covered and protected to a point
                                    heretofore unknown in Indian expeditions; three large Indian establishments have
                                    been burnt and destoyed, with near three miles of fence, (and all the corn,
                                    &c. we could find) besides many smaller ones; the enemy have been sought in
                                    their strong holds, and every opportunity afforded them to attack or alarm us; a
                                    march on the east side of the 
                                        Wabash
                                    , without road or cognizance of the country, fully one hundred miles
                                    perfected; and this has been done with a naked army of infantry, aided by only about
                                    fifty rangers and spies. All this was done in twenty days–no sigh, no
                                    murmur, no complaint.
                        I certainly feel particular obligations to my friends general 
                                        Butler
                                     and colonel Taylor, for their effectual and ready aid in their line; as
                                    also to captain Z. Taylor, of the seventh 
                                        United States
                                     regiment; Messrs. Gist and Richeson, my aids-de-camp, and major J. B.
                                    Breckenridge, my secretary, for a prompt and effectual support in every instance.
                                    The firm and almost unparlelled defence of Fort Harrison, by captain Z. Taylor, has
                                    raised for him a fabric of character not to be effaced by my eulogy. To colonel
                                    Barbour, for his officer-like management, in conducting and commanding the boats, my
                                    thanks are due, as also to colonels Miller and Wilcox, and to majors Hughes and
                                    Shacklet, and to the captains and subalterns of the army generally. From lieutenants
                                    Richeson, Hawkins and Sullivan of the 
                                        United States
                                     troops, I have to acknowledge my obligations for their steady and
                                    uniform conduct, as well as captain Beckers, of the rangers, captain Washburn, of
                                    the spies, and the staff generally.
                        Let me refer your excellency to colonel Taylor for more minute information; and
                                    believe me with high regard and consideration, to be, your most obedient servant,
                        
                                    SAMUEL HOPKINS.7
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  7
                  Ibid., Ill, 264–265 (December 26,
                    1812).
            
         
         
         
            
               Pontiac and the Indian Uprising. By Howard H. Peckham. (
                  Princeton, New Jersey,
                            Princeton
                University Press, 1947, pp.
                    xviii, 346, Maps, illustrations, and index. $4.50.)
            The victory of the British over the French, the unwillingness of the conquered to accept the result
                    as final, the unrealistic Indian policy of the victors, and the dissatisfaction of the aborigines
                    produced a general uprising and not a conspiracy inspired by one leader. Thus may be briefly
                    summarized the contribution of this new biography of Pontiac, which rejects or at least seriously
                    modifies the idea of conspiracy which Francis Parkman popularized in The Conspiracy of
                        Pontiac. The author in support of his conclusion describes briefly the preaching of the 
                        Delaware
                     Prophet, the efforts of the Seneca Indians to instigate a revolt, and the slowness with
                    which Pontiac arose to a position of general leadership. Additional material has come to light since
                    Parkman wrote. Minor details are also corrected. Peckham points out that his predecessor accepted a
                    story written by Major Robert Rogers which appears to have been a fabrication (p. 59); that the
                    story of the betrayal which Parkman related, even to the supposed conversation, was in reality one
                    of several traditions, none of which can be established as true (pp. 122-125); and that the place of
                    the assassination of the leader was incorrect (p. 311). The volume is not, however, a rewriting of
                    Parkman's work.
            The author frankly admits that there are gaps in our information about Pontiac and that several of
                    the accepted stories are unsupported by documentary evidence. An illustration of the latter is the
                    story of Pontiac's supposed participation in the defeat of General Edward Braddock. He may have been
                    there, but there is no evidence. Almost nothing is known of his early life, his birth, parents, and
                    place of nativity. The author describes what might have happened to a normal 
                        Ottawa
                     youth, which is interesting background material for a better understanding of the
                    Indians. Pontiac was a leader in the 
                        Detroit
                     area during the beginning stage of the uprising, but he was not the head of a
                    widespread conspiracy. Failing in his efforts to capture the fort at 
                        Detroit
                    , he appealed to other tribes to attack the English. Fort after fort fell before the
                    attacks of the aborigines, but
            
            
               
                        Detroit
                    , Niagara, and Fort Pitt were not taken. The losses inflicted upon the British were
                    heavy. His leadership attracted much support and admiration but was not universally accepted. Forced
                    to give up the seige of 
                        Detroit
                    , Pontiac retired to the Maumee. He sought help from the French in the 
                        Illinois
                     Country in order to renew the war the following summer. Failing to secure assistance
                    from this source, he continued to plan an attack with the support of the Shawnee and the 
                        Delaware
                    . When this also failed, he made peace with the English. During the negotiations the
                    English gave him much attention, and he assumed a commanding position. This may have been intended
                    to arouse the jealousy of other chiefs. If this were true, it worked only too well. The 
                        Peoria
                     Indians resolved to kill him and, without much delay, the deed was perpetrated by a 
                        Peoria
                     who pretended friendship. The failure of the Indians to join in unified support of
                    Pontiac doomed their way of life to disappear before the English speaking peoples. He possessed many
                    elements of greatness and his failure was in reality the failure of his people. He should not,
                    however, be idealized for he was cruel and untruthful.
            The volume is neatly printed on good paper and attractively bound. It includes several excellent maps
                    and illustrations, an adequate index, and a classified but not an annotated bibliography. No
                    typographical errors were noted. It is a pleasure to read a book that is free from the limitations
                    imposed during the war years.
            Errors seem to be very few and of an insignificant character. A small slip (pp. 38-39) has George 
                        Washington
                     sent to retake Fort Duquesne rather than to protect the men building the original fort
                    for the 
                        Ohio
                     Company. Some of the footnotes, as the one on page 225, are very inadequate as
                    references. An instance of overstatement seems to have occurred on page 276 where Pontiac even in
                    his submission "was for the moment more powerful than Johnson or Gage." West
                            
                  Newton, Pennsylvania
               , is southeast of and not "below" 
                        Pittsburgh
                    .
            There need be no hesitancy in recommending this book to friends and students. It is good reading and
                    good history.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
         
            
               Invitation to Book Collecting, its Pleasures and Practices, with kindred Dismissions
                        of Manuscripts, Maps, and Prints. By Colton Storm and Howard Peckham. (
                        New York
                    , R. R. Bowker Company, 1947, pp. 281. Illustrations and index. $5.00.)
            This excellent book has been well reviewed by competent authorities and can be recommended as an
                    essential first reading for anyone interested in the collecting of books or other historical
                    materials.
            Before Peckham came to the Indiana Historical Bureau as director, he was associated with Storm on the
                    staff of the William L. Clements Library in 
                        Ann Arbor
                    . This book is the result of their shared experience and enthusiasm and it's a dandy!
            Book collecting is more than the hobby of antiquarians who love and wish to recreate the past. It is
                    more than the preservation of documents for the writing of political, social or literary history.
                    The art of book collecting carries with it a strong creative impulse. It is rewarded by adventure,
                    accomplishment and the lure of the unattainable. The satisfaction of the creative impulse can be
                    illustrated by the discovery of an unknown Indiana imprint. The place, date and publisher provide
                    new facts for the history of printing in Indiana. The content of the book, the author and his
                    significance, may lead to a reinterpretation of an important phase of our history and development.
            A better description of the motives and pleasures of collecting can be found in the third chapter of
                    Storm and Peckham. This chapter leads quickly into fuller discussions on Americana, literature,
                    manuscripts and other materials. The style is lively. It quickens the reader and never dulls the
                    subject.
            But the book is more than a justification of collecting. It contains sound, practical advice on
                    buying and selling. It is full of the anecdotes and the kind of talk that collectors enjoy.
            An extra value that collectors attach to books comes from the factor of association. For example, a
                        Ben Hur inscribed by the author to Mrs. Wallace would be very dear. Invitation to Book Collecting has this extra value, for it is written by an
                    Indiana author whose association with us has been direct and always pleasant.
            
            If you would know why a collector is, or if you are yourself a collector of books or other objects,
                    this is a book for you.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Robert A. Miller
         
         
            
               Land of Promise, The Story of the Northwest Territory. By Walter Havighurst. (
                        New York
                    , The Macmillan Company, 1946, pp. viii, 384. Index and end maps. $3.00.)
            It seems necessary to regard this work as literature rather than history. It contains too many minor
                    errors, it omits too many important but less dramatic phases of the development of the Old
                    Northwest, and it includes or overemphasizes too much of the legendary to be regarded as history. If
                    one insists upon applying to it the standards of the historical profession, the resulting evaluation
                    of the work is necessarily more harsh than the effort deserves.
            The work has considerable value, particularly in relation to the Great Lakes region and its
                    settlement and growth. The author understands the Indians and the French. He brings out the
                    importance of the surveyor and pictures under-standingly the work of the boatmen and the builders of
                    canals, roads, and railroads. He closes the volume with a detailed and enlightening survey of
                    developments along the shores of the Great Lakes. The author has a beautiful style, and he knows how
                    to paint an effective picture. An intelligent and informed reader will surely find it to be well
                    worth reading. Quite probably it will be a popular work.
            Without intending to be overly critical, it may be desirable to warn the unwary of some of its
                    deficiencies. The author's sweeping generalizations must be examined critically for they are often
                    too inclusive. In striving for effect, he is sometimes inaccurate. His knowledge of the early
                    history of the Northwest and Indiana territories is inadequate. He fails to recognize the
                    controversy over La Salle's supposed voyage on the 
                        Ohio
                    , he idealizes George Croghan, he accepts unsubstantiated traditions about Henry 
                        Hamilton
                    , he overemphasizes the legend of Johnny Appleseed, and he omits the humdrum but highly
                    significant land laws under which the land was transferred to private ownership. If the reader wants
                    additional errors pointed out he might read the review of Milo Quaife in the American
                        Historical Review or of R. C. Buley in the 
                  
                            Mississippi
                         Valley Historical Review.
            
            
            With these qualifications, this volume is to be recommended as a profitable piece of reading on the
                    Old Northwest.
         
         
            
               St. Pius Parish, 
                            Troy
                        , Indiana, Centenary History, 1847-1947. By Albert Kleber. (
                        Troy
                    , Indiana, St. Pius Rectory, 1947, pp. vi, 78. Illustrations. $1.00.)
            St. Pius Roman Catholic *Parish, resting on the banks of "the broadchested 
                        Ohio
                    ," has had a typical but nevertheless an interesting existence during the past
                    one hundred years. Located in the sleepy river town of 
                  Troy, Perry County
               , Indiana, it began
                    its growth with the arrival of many 
                        German
                    -Catholic immigrants who disembarked there in the middle of the nineteenth century to
                    seek new homes in southern Indiana. Not a little of the early Catholic influence of that region can
                    be traced to the advertising policy of Father Kundek whose plan was to settle the strip of land
                    between 
                        Troy
                     and 
                        Jasper
                     with Catholic farmers. To that end he made good use of Catholic weeklies in 
                        Cincinnati
                     and the surrounding regions.
            As a short account of St. Pius Parish, this booklet rises above the standard usually found in such
                    congregational histories, for the author has shown a gratifying objectivity in the use of the
                    material he had at hand. His work includes entertaining biographical sketches of the many pastors,
                    whose occasional shortcomings and idiocyncrasies are not glossed over. Interesting accounts of the
                    fathers' activities range from the account of the priest who had to be wakened "in the
                    sight of all the church" to conduct service, to the gripping story of faithful
                    ministrations to the injured and dying on the river steamer "Reindeer," which had
                    blown up near 
                        Troy
                    . Humor too is present, as in the account of the priest who from the pulpit denounced by
                    name those who had failed in regard to their contributions, thus eliciting a brazen,
                    "Here!" from one pious delinquent as his name is mentioned. And then there is the
                    story of the ecclesiastic who suggested that the three saloons of 
                        Troy
                     be put out of business without loss to their owners by having the parish buy them out.
                    In this the parishoners cheerfully agreed, "only that they preferred to buy the stock not
                    all at once, but glass by glass."
            The faults of the treatise are few. Such a statement as "Indiana fought with the Union, 
                        Kentucky
                     with the Confed-  eracy" (pp. 36-37) could
                    use some modification, but on a whole the parish record of St. Pius is well done and should be of
                    especial interest to students of the early history of Roman Catholicism in Indiana.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Orville J. Jaebker
         
         
            
               The Indians of the Southeastern 
                            United States
                        . By John R. Swanton. (Bulletin 137, Smithsonian Institution,
                    Bureau of American Ethnology, 
                        United States
                     Government Printing Office, 
                        Washington
                    , B.C., 1946, pp. xiii, 943. Maps, plates, tables, sketches, bibliography, and index.
                    $2.75.)
            In conjunction with his anthropological and ethnological work with the Bureau of American Ethnology,
                    John R. Swanton brings together into this his latest work the results of almost five decades of
                    careful research on the southeastern tribes of American Indians. His pre-eminence in this
                    specialized field is unquestioned. The prolificness of Swanton's works-well over a score of books,
                    articles, and three cooperative Indian language dictionaries-are all definite contributions to the
                    all too inadequate funds of knowledge we possess as to language, lore, society, history, culture,
                    and sources concerning the American Indian. His pioneering work has blazed new paths, and it is to
                    be hoped that others will not only follow his paths but in turn blaze new ones.
            To claim definitiveness for this work would be a claim of absurdity, for as Swanton has pointed out
                    in his introduction, "no claim of a hundred-percent completion . . . can ever be made
                    safely, since some manuscript may at any tune be drawn from its place of concealment and modify
                    materially everything that has been published, or even occasion a total revolution in our ideas
                    regarding it" (p. 1). It is, however, a handbook that should be required reading for anyone
                    anticipating research concerning the southeastern Indians. In this respect it may be considered the
                    standard treatment of the subject.
            Swanton defines the southeastern Indians as those who lived "between the 24th and 39th
                    parallels of N. latitude and the 75th and 96th meridians of W. longitude" (pp. 1-2).
                    Archaeologically the province of the southeastern Indians includes "most of the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley and as far up the 
                        Mississippi
                    
                     as southern 
                        Wisconsin
                    . The difference between the two indicates plainly a later shrinkage of culture bearing
                    tribes toward the south and in some measure toward the east and west" (p. 2). The treatise
                    deals mainly with questions of culture and therefore classifies the southeastern tribes by
                    linguistic and political considerations.
            Swanton's volume discusses geography of the southeast with the aid of such auxiliary sciences as
                    physiography and climatology; classifies the southeastern tribes on bases of linguistic and
                    political considerations; conjectures as to the correlation of population to physiographic areas,
                    especially the indigenous and aboriginal elements; sketches the history of the tribes, considered as
                    a whole, from prehistoric times to the mid-nineteenth century; gives an encyclopedic and succinct
                    sketch of over one hundred and seventy-five southeastern tribes from "Abihka" to
                    "Yustaga," each from one paragraph to four and one-half pages in length; and
                    presents a great wealth and large quantity of cultural information concerning such things as use of
                    raw materials, hunting and fishing methods, domestication of animals, housing, clothing,
                    ornamentation, household utensils, musical instruments, and societal and ceremonial life. This is
                    followed by a comparison of the southeast with corresponding areas in other parts of the world.
                    Swanton then asserts that "though students of culture still have work to do here, the
                    future study of the Southeastern Indians rests mainly with the archeologists" (p. 827).
            The text is replete throughout with adequate citations and documentation. The ample bibliography is
                    evidence of the thoroughness of the work. The critical essay on source materials is valuable.
                    Swanton has also included 107 plates -some actual photographs, and others sketches by earlier
                    explorers and writers-of survivors of the various tribes, of cultural remains both individualistic
                    and tribal, and of many other artifacts. This collection of plates in itself makes the volume a
                    valuable one.
            Minor historical errors are few and not of enough consequence to detract from the value of the text
                    as a whole. Swanton forgets, for example, the Isle d'Orleans was an exception when he states that in
                    1763 "
                        Florida
                     and all the French possessions east of the 
                        Mississippi
                     were ceded to Great Britain . . . ." (p. 78). His statement that Colonel 
                    
                        Montgomery
                    's defeat and loss of over 1,600 of his combined force of First Royals, Highlanders, and
                    Provincials at the hands of the Cherokee, (p. 112), is erroneous. For the size and scope of the
                    work, however, the number of errors is suprisingly small.
            Swanton has made a very commendable contribution and deserves much praise for his labors. His superb
                    work should become a reference volume for every student of the Indians of the southeast and also for
                    those interested in the history of that area.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Dwight L. Smith
         
         
            An article by Mary Verhoeff in the Filson Club History Quarterly, XXI, 275-300,
                    entitled "
                        Louisville
                    's First Newspaper-The Farmer's Library," gives information
                    supplementary to our document section "The Letters of Decius," in the Indiana Magazine of History, XLIII, September, 1947, pp. 263-296.
         
         
         
            Wanted–County Histories
            The Indiana University Library is attempting to add to its present holdings on Indiana History all of
                    the Indiana county histories and atlases that have been published. If any of the readers of the Indiana Magazine of History have county histories or atlases which they desire to
                    dispose of, please write Miss Irene Ryan, Indiana University Library, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, giving the author and title of the volume and the price which they would
                    expect to receive. We are particularly interested in the following:
            
               Goodspeed Bros., Pictorial and Biographical Memoirs of 
                                Elkhart
                             and 
                                St. Joseph
                             counties … (
                            Chicago
                        , 1893).
               George Ogle & Co., Standard Atlas of 
                                St. Joseph
                             County,Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1911).
               Higgens, Belden & Co., An Illustrated Historical Atlas of 
                                St. Joseph
                             County, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1875).
               John S. Stoll, Account of 
                                St. Joseph
                             County (
                            Dayton
                        , 1923).
               B. N. Griffing, Atlas of Scott County, Indiana (
                            Philadelphia
                        ,1889).
               
                  
                     
                                Shelby
                             and Johnson Counties, Indiana, Plat Book (
                            Evansville
                        , n.d.).
               Beers, 
                     
                                Shelby County
                             , Indiana, Atlas (1880).
               Brant and Fuller, History of 
                                Shelby County
                             , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        ,1887).
               William Hacker, Biographical and Historical Sketches of 
                                Shelby County
                             .
               
               W. W. Hixon & Co., Plat book of Starke County, Indiana
                                (
                     Rockford, Illinois
                  ).
               Joseph N. McCormick, Standard History of Starke County,Indiana (1915).
               
                  Official County Atlas and Road Map of 
                                Steuben
                             County, Indiana (
                            Angola
                        , Indiana, 1925).
               Ernest V. Shockley, History of 
                                Steuben
                             County … (1911).
               Morley, H. W., Atlas of 
                                Steuben
                             County, Indiana (Des Moines,
                            Iowa
                        , 1912).
               
                  History of 
                                Steuben
                             County, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1885).
               J. H. Beers & Co., Atlas of 
                                Steuben
                             County, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        ,1880).
               
                  
                     
                                Steuben
                             County, Indiana, Atlas (
                            Angola
                        , Indiana, 1898).
               Wilson, Fuller & Co., An Illustrated Standard Atlas of 
                                Sullivan County
                            , Indiana (
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana, n.d.).
               
                  
                     
                                Sullivan County
                            , Indiana, Standard Atlas (1899).
               
               
                  Art Souvenir of leading Citizens and Farmers' Directory of 
                                Sullivan County
                            , Indiana (Sullivan, Indiana, 1896).
               Thomas J. Wolfe, A History of 
                                Sullivan County
                            , Indiana (
                            New York
                        , 1909).
               Perret Dufour, History of 
                                Switzerland
                             County, Indiana (n.p., n.d.)
               D. J. Lake, An Atlas of 
                                Switzerland
                             and 
                                Ohio
                             Counties, Indiana (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1883).
               Kingman Bros., Combination Atlas Map of 
                                Tippecanoe County
                             , Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1878).
               
                  A History of 
                                Tippecanoe County
                             and the Wabash Valley
                   (
                            Dayton
                        , 1928).
               J. H. Beers & Co., Atlas of Union County, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1884).
               Ira M. O'Banion, Pictorial History Atlas and Plat Book of 
                                Tipton County
                             , Indiana (
                            Tipton
                        , Indiana, 1928).
               
                  Anderson & McCarthy's 
                                Tipton County
                             Directory (
                            Tipton
                        , Indiana, 1900).
               Marvin W. Pershing, History of 
                                Tipton County
                             , Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1914).
               B. N. Griffing, Griffing's Atlas of 
                                Vanderburgh County
                             , Indiana (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1880).
               Tillman & Fuller, An Illustrated Plat Book of 
                                Vanderburgh
                             and 
                                Warrick
                             Counties, Indiana (
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana, 1899).
               John E. Iglehart, Account of 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            
                         (
                     Dayton, Ohio
                  , 1923).
               Frank M. Gilbert, History of the City of 
                                Evansville
                             and 
                                Vanderburgh County
                             , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1910).
               Brant & Fuller, History of 
                                Vanderburgh County
                             , Indiana (
                     Madison,
                                Wisconsin
                  , 1889).
               
                  Biographical Cyclopedia of 
                                Vanderburgh County
                             , Indiana (
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana, 1897).
               George A. Ogle and Co., Standard Atlas of 
                                Vermillion County
                             , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1909).
               Lewis Publishing Co., Biographical and Historical Record of 
                                Vermillion County
                             , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1888).
               Cline & McHaffie, The People's Guide … of 
                                Vermillion County
                             , Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1874).
               
                  Standard Atlas of 
                                Vigo County
                            , Indiana (1907).
               
                  County of Vigo, Indiana, and Imperial Atlas (
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana, 1895).
               H. C. Bradsby, History of 
                                Vigo County
                            , Indiana (1891).
               
               William F. Cronin (ed.), Account of 
                                Vigo County
                            
                   (
                            Dayton
                        ,1922).
               
                  
                            Blackford
                         Condit, The History of Early 
                                Terre Haute
                             from 1816 to 1840 (
                            New York
                        , 1900).
               A. T. Andreas, Atlas Map of 
                                Vigo County
                            , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        ,1874).
               
                  
                     
                                Wabash County
                             , Indiana, Atlas (1875).
               Clarkson W. Weesner (ed.), History of 
                                Wabash County
                             , Indiana (1914).
               
                  Biographical Memoirs of 
                                Wabash County
                             , Indiana (1901).
               George A. Ogle (comp.), Standard Atlas of 
                                Warren County
                             , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1923).
               J. H. Beers & Co., Atlas of 
                                Warren County
                             , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1877).
               William Fortune (ed.), 
                     
                                Warrick
                             and Its Prominent People (
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana, 1909).
               
                  
                     
                                Warrick County
                             , Indiana, Standard Atlas (1899).
               D. J. Lake & Co., An Illustrated Historical Atlas of 
                                Warrick County
                             , Indiana (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1880).
               B. N. Griffing Atlas of 
                                Washington
                             County, Indiana (1878).
               Warder W. Stevens, Centennial History of 
                                Washington
                             County, Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1916).
               
                  
                     
                                Wayne County
                             , Indiana, Imperial Atlas and Art Folio (1893).
               Griffing, Stevenson & Co., Atlas of 
                                Wayne County
                             , Indiana (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1874).
               Jeremiah Cox, Reminiscences of Jeremiah Cox of 
                                Wayne County
                            
                         (
                            Richmond
                        , 1860).
               Henry C. Fox (ed.), Memoirs of 
                                Wayne County
                             and the City of 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana (
                     Madison, Wisconsin
                  , 1912).
               Rerick Brothers, The County of 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana (
                            Richmond
                        ,Indiana, 1893).
               B. F. Bowen, Biographical Memoirs of 
                                Wells County
                            , Indiana (
                            Logansport
                        , Indiana, 1903).
               
                  Atlas and Plat Book of White County, Indiana (1920).
               L. A. 
                            Cleveland
                        , History of the 
                                Ohio
                             Falls Cities and Their Counties (1882).
               S. P. Kaler and R. H. Maring, History of 
                                Whitley County
                             ,Indiana (1907).
               Friendly Map and Publishing Co., Atlas and Plat Book of 
                                Whitley County
                             , Indiana (Elmhurst, 
                            Illinois
                        , 1939).
               George A. Ogle, Standard Atlas of 
                                Whitley
                            , County, Indiana(
                            Chicago
                        , 1916).
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
