
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 59, Issue 4, pages 299-416. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:59+issue:4+year:1963&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Indian Removal and the Great American Desert
            
                    Francis Paul Prucha*
               
                
            In 1820 Major Stephen H. Long of the 
                        United States
                     Topographical Engineers explored lands west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . From Council Bluffs on the Missouri River he moved west, crossed the plains through
                    what is now 
                        Nebraska
                    , headed south along the foothills of the Rockies, and returned east following the
                    Canadian River through present-day 
                        Oklahoma
                    . The report of this expedition, published in 1823, proclaimed that most of the
                    territory between the meridian of Council Bluffs and the Rocky Mountains was "almost wholly
                    unfit for cultivation, and of course uninhabitable by a people depending upon agriculture for their
                        subsistence."1 Two years after the appearance of this report
                    President James Monroe, following a proposal set forth by Secretary of War John C. Calhoun,
                    officially adopted a policy of removing the Indian tribes in the East to unoccupied lands west of
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                    . These two events some American historians have been wont to join together in their
                    interpretation of the Indian removal policy.
            The common explanation of the removal policy presented by today's writers of general
                    histories of the 
                        United States
                     and of the westward movement may be stated, not unfairly, as follows. The Indians in
                    the East, forming enclaves within 
                  *Francis Paul Prucha, S.J., is assistant professor of history at Marquette University,
                                    
                        Milwaukee, Wisconsin
                     . The substance of this article was
                            presented as a paper at the joint meeting of the American Indian Ethnohistoric Conference
                            and the Society for the History of Discoveries at The Newberry Library, November 1, 1963.
                  
                     1 Edwin James (comp.), Account of an Expedition from 
                                    Pittsburgh
                                 to the Rocky Mountains Performed in the Years 1819 and '20 (2
                            vols. and atlas, 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1822-1823), II, 361. A three-volume edition of James's work was
                            published in 
                                London
                             in 1823. The 
                                London
                             edition is reprinted in Reuben G. Thwaites (ed.), Early Western
                                Travels, 1748-1846 (32 vols., 
                                Cleveland
                            , 1904-1907), XIV-XVII.
               
                     the advancing white settlement, were becoming an increasingly
                    greater problem. The whites coveted the Indian lands, and the contact between the two races was
                    becoming more and more detrimental to the Indians, who acquired the white man's vices but
                    not his virtues. Then came word of the nature of the trans-Mississippi West. If the West was indeed
                    a great desert, useless to the whites, why not dispose of the bothersome Indians by moving them out
                    into the plains. "The concept of a 'Permanent Indian Frontier,' where red
                    men would be forever removed from the path of advancing white settlements," writes one
                    authority on westward expansion, "dawned on officials as soon as government explorers made
                    them aware of western geography. The region west of the 95th meridian, pathfinders agreed, was an
                    arid waste unsuited to habitation… . Federal officials saw a possible solution to the
                    vexing race problem in the explorers' tales. If all Indians east of the Mississippi were
                    moved to the Great American Desert their valuable lands would be opened to settlement, friction
                    between the two races removed, and natives protected from the sins and diseases of white
                        men."2 Another historian remarks in his textbook: "Luckily
                    for the whites the solution of the problem of the Indians appeared obvious and easy." After
                    noting that there was general belief in the "Great American Desert," he continues:
                    "In view of the apparent unavailability of the Far West for white settlement it seemed
                    reasonable to send the Indians to that part of the country."3 A third
                    textbook speaks of the "country reputed to be desert" as offering "a
                    splendid opportunity to dispose of the Indians,"4 and a fourth notes
                    that "in the vast stretch of territory popularly regarded as the 'Great American
                    Desert' … the displaced Indian tribes were supposed to live in isolation from
                    the whites… ."5
            
            
               
                  2 Ray Allen Billington, Westward Expansion: A History of the
                            American Frontier (2d ed., 
                            New York
                        , 1960), 470.
               
                  3 Robert E. Riegel, America Moves West (3d ed., 
                            New York
                        , 1956),304-305.
               
                  4 Robert E. Riegel and David F. Long, The American Story
                        (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1955), I, 257.
               
                        
                     5 Richard Hofstadter, William Miller, and Daniel Aaron, The
                                American Republic (2 vols., Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1959), I, 472.
                        Similar statements concerning the relationship between Indian removal and the western desert
                            may be found in Frederic L. Paxson, History of the American Frontier,
                            1763-1898 (
                                Boston
                            , 1924), 276-277; Roy M. Robbins, Our Landed Heritage: The Public
                                Domain, 1776-1936 (
                                Princeton
                            , 1942), 51; John D. Hicks and George E. Mowry, A Short History of
                                American Democracy (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1956), 214; Thomas D. Clark, Frontier America: The Story
                                of the Westward Movement (
                                New York
                            , 1959), 468, 475; Henry Bamford Parkes, The 
                                    United States
                                 of America: A History (
                                New York
                            , 1959), 195; T. Harry Williams,
                    
            
            
            For readers accustomed to think of American governmental policy toward the Indians in the blackest of
                    terms, this account of the removal policy makes good sense. When still another historian notes that
                    removal was in large part carried out by Andrew 
                        Jackson
                     and describes him as a "veteran Indian fighter" who
                    "accepted fully the brutal creed of his fellow Westerners that 'the only good
                    Indian is a dead Indian,'"6 the pieces of the picture fall
                    comfortably into place.
            Certain pertinent questions, however, need to be asked about the picture so assembled. Where did the
                    officials who formulated the Indian removal policy think the Great American Desert was located? What
                    area west of the Mississippi did they allot to the transplanted tribes? Were these two areas the
                    same? Was it the intent of federal officials to settle the Indian on useless land? And did the
                    contemporary critics condemn the removal policy because it would force the Indians out into the
                    desert?
            That there was common belief in the existence of the Great American Desert there can be no doubt.
                    Historians and geographers have unearthed the surveys of explorers and have pointed to the
                    popularization of these reports in the atlases and school geographies of the time.7 It is necessary, however, to re-examine the data to determine with some exactness, if it is
                    possible, just where the Great American Desert existed according to the belief of men in the
                    1820's and 1830's. Was everything west of Missouri and Arkansas considered
                    desert—as some modern authors might lead us to believe—or was the desert area
                    more precisely circumscribed?
            
               Richard N. Current, and Frank Freidel, A History of the 
                                United States
                            
                   (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1959), I, 370; Alvin M. Josephy, Jr., The 
                                Patriot
                             Chiefs (
                            New York
                        , 1961), 187; Bayrd Still (ed.), The West: Contemporary Records of
                            America's Expansion Across the Continent, 1607-1890 (
                            New York
                        , 1961), 8. It is difficult to explain why such statements are repeated in so many
                        books, since scholarly monographs and articles dealing with Indian removal or with the Great
                        American Desert do not indicate any relationship between the two.
               
                  6 Thomas A. Bailey, The American Pageant: A History of the
                            Republic (2d ed., 
                            Boston
                        , 1961), 269.
               
                  7 A detailed account of the idea of the Great American Desert is given in
                        Ralph C. Morris, "The Notion of a Great American Desert East of the Rockies,"
                            Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XIII (September, 1926), 190-200. See
                        also Frank W. Blackmar, "The History of the Desert," Transactions
                            of the Kansas State Historical Society, IX (1906), 101-114; Walter Prescott Webb, The Great Plains (
                            Boston
                        , 1931), 152-160; Henry Nash Smith, Virgin Land: The American West as
                            Symbol and Myth (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1950), 174-183. The author found very helpful an unpublished paper,
                        "The Cartographical History of the 'Great American Desert,'"
                        by Guy-Harold Smith, professor of geography, Ohio State University, 
                            Columbus
                        . A copy of the paper was kindly furnished the author by Professor Smith.
            
            
            The genesis of the desert idea and its spread among the public are established facts. Lieutenant
                    Zebulon M. Pike, who journeyed across the plains in 1806-1807, reported that the area "may
                    become in time equally celebrated as the sandy desarts [sic] of Africa" and predicted that
                    white settlers would halt at "the borders of the Missouri and 
                        Mississippi
                    , while they leave the prairies incapable of cultivation to the wandering and
                    uncivilized aborigines of the country."8
                    
                        Pike
                    's observations, however, had little influence either on cartographers or on
                    the public mind. The first edition of his work, published in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , is remarkable for the disorder of its material and the 
                        London
                     edition, although somewhat improved by the editor, is not much more satisfactory. In
                    neither edition do the maps carry any notation of desert.
            It is Stephen H. Long who must be credited with establishing the belief in the Great American Desert.
                    In 1820 he produced a large manuscript map with the following inscription: "To the Hon.
                    John C. Calhoun, Secy of War, This Map of the Country situated between the 
                        Meridian
                     of 
                        Washington City
                     and the Rocky Mountains, exhibiting the route of the late Exploring Expedition
                    commanded by Maj. Long, together with other recent surveys and explorations by himself &
                    others… ."9 This map has the words GREAT DESERT entered on
                    what is now the panhandle of Texas and the region immediately to the north. It was the first map to
                    refer to or delineate the Great American Desert, and it became the progenitor of several decades of
                    maps of the West.
            The data on Long's expedition reached the public chiefly through the report of Edwin James,
                    a member of Long's party, who published an account of the expedition in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1823 and another edition in 
                        London
                     later in the same year?10 James described the area west of the 96th
                    meridian as prairie country, with a scarity of wood and water which would "prove an
                    insuperable obstacle in the way of settling the country." But the epithet
                    "desert" he reserved for a more restricted area—the region five hundred
                    to six 
                  
                     8 Zebulon M. Pike, An Account of Expeditions to the
                                Sources of the Mississippi and through the Western Parts of 
                                    Louisiana
                                 … (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1810), Appendix to Part II, 3. The 
                                London
                             edition, entitled Exploratory Travels through the Western
                                Territories of North America, was published in 1811. One of the most complete
                            editions of 
                                Pike
                            's journals is: Elliott Coues (ed.), The Expeditions of
                                Zebulon 
                                    Montgomery
                                    Pike
                                
                      (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1895).
                  
                     9 The original map is preserved in the Cartographic Branch of the
                            National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.
                  
                     10 See note 1. The 
                                Philadelphia
                             edition appeared in two volumes of text with a separate volume of plates and
                            maps dated 1822.
               
                     hundred miles wide at the base of the Rocky Mountains?11 In the 
                        Philadelphia
                     edition of James's work the map of the 
                        United States
                     was printed as two plates, one showing the "Eastern Section," the
                    other the "Western Section"; the name GREAT AMERICAN DESERT appears on the latter
                    (see Plate II). In the 
                        London
                     edition the area was designated simply GREAT DESERT, following almost exactly the
                    manuscript map of Long.12 Both printings carry the annotation on the map,
                    "The Great Desert is frequented by roving bands of Indians who have no fixed places of
                    residence but roam from place to place in quest of game."
            The popular map makers of the day copied from Long, James, and perhaps from each other. And they are
                    remarkably uniform in their portrayal of the Great American Desert. One of the earliest atlases to
                    mark the desert was that of Henry C. Carey, A Complete Historical, Chronological, and
                        Geographical American Atlas, published in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1822. Its general map of the 
                        United States
                     shows no desert, but Plate 35, entitled "Map of Arkansa [sic] and other Territories of the 
                        United States
                    , Respectfully inscribed to the Hon. J. C. Calhoun, Secretary of War, By S. H. Long
                    Major T. Engineers," shows GREAT DESERT west of the 100th meridian, equidistant north and
                    south of the Arkansas River (see Plate III). It carries the additional legend about the roving bands
                    of Indians. The identical map was printed in the 1823 edition of Carey's Atlas and in the 1827 edition as well. The 1827 edition also shows GREAT AMERICAN DESERT on
                    its general map of the 
                        United States
                    .
            The atlases of William C. Woodbridge present much the same information. His 1823 School
                        Atlas shows no desert marked on its plate of North America and its map of the 
                        United States
                     does not extend far enough to the west to show the area in question. But his Modern Atlas, on a New Plan, to Accompany the System of Universal Geography, in
                    its editions of 1824 and 1829, shows the desert on the plate of the 
                        United States
                    .13 In both of these editions the words GREAT AMERICAN DESERT run in
                    a broad sweep from northwest to southeast, beginning in what is now the northeast corner of Colorado
                    and running down into north central 
                        Oklahoma
                    . This brings the legend farther east than in any of the other 
                  
                     11 James, Account, II, 361, 386.
                  
                     12 The map of the 
                                United States
                             was printed as one plate in the 
                                London
                             edition; it is reproduced in Thwaites, Early Western Travels,
                            XIV, 30.
                  
                     13 Woodbridge's atlases were published in 
                                Hartford
                            . The plates in question bear the copyright date 1821.
               
                     contemporary atlases. One is forced to conclude, however, that
                    the unusual sweep of the lettering was not due to any special geographical knowledge or conviction,
                    but to the necessity of avoiding an inset map which covered much of the area designated desert in
                    other atlases. Indeed, in the 1829 edition of the atlas the plate of North America shows GREAT
                    AMERICAN DESERT in its usual position west of the 100th meridian, astride the Arkansas River (see
                    Plate I). Wood-bridge's maps of the 
                        United States
                     carry the notation: "The desert is traversed by herds of Buffaloes
                    & wild horses & inhabited only by roving tribes of Indians."
            The 
                        United States
                     map (see Plate IV) published in 1835 by Thomas G. Bradford in A
                        Comprehensive Atlas, Geographical, Historical & Commercial,14 follows the same tradition. In large open capitals it indicates GREAT AMERICAN DESERT
                    running north to south, beginning almost at the Canadian border and ending in the southwest corner
                    of 
                        Oklahoma
                    . For the most part the lettering runs along the 102nd meridian marked on the map. The
                    maps printed in Smith's Atlas, 1839, add further clarification to the
                    contemporary concept of the Great American Desert because the area is neatly stippled on the map, so
                    that there can be few doubts about the limits intended.15 The "Map of
                    the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Texas
                    " shows an irregular oblong area divided into roughly equal parts by the
                    Arkansas River and lying between the 101st and the 105th meridians, extending as far south as the
                    Red River. A similar area is marked out on the "Map of North America," but in less
                    detail owing to the scale of the map. The same plates were used again in the 1844 edition of the
                    atlas. 
                  
                            Mitchell
                        's School Atlas, published in revised edition in 1840, shows stippled
                    areas of desert, which are almost identical with those in Smith's works, both on the map of
                    the 
                        United States
                     (see Plate V) and on the map of North America.16
            
            It is clear, therefore, that during the decades of the 1820's and 1830's, when
                    Indian removal on a large scale was planned and carried out, the Great American Desert occupied a
                    precise and generally agreed upon position on the available maps. It was the area east of the
                    Rockies, varying in length from north to south in the different atlases, but generally 
                  
                     14 Thomas G. Bradford, A Comprehensive Atlas,
                                Geographical, Historical & Commercial (
                                Boston
                            , 1835).
                  
                     15 Roswell C. Smith, Smith's Atlas (
                                Hartford
                            , 1839).
                  
                     16 Samuel A. Mitchell, 
                        
                                    Mitchell
                                's School Atlas (rev. ed., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1840).
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Lilly Library, Indiana University PLATE II
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Lilly Library, Indiana University PLATEIII
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Lilly Library, Indiana University PLATE IV
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Lilly Library, Indiana University PLATE V
               
                     extending about two hundred miles north and the same distance
                    south of the Arkansas River—in other words, from the northern boundary of present-day
                    Colorado to the base of the Texas panhandle. The area designated, except for an occasional tail of
                    the printing, is west of the 100th meridian and in some cases west of the 101st.17
            
            The contemporary descriptions of the region designated as the Great American Desert leave no doubt
                    that it was considered desolate country, fit only for buffalo, wild horses, and roving Indians.
                    Although the official reports were moderate in language and attempted a careful description of the
                    various sections, distinguishing to some extent between prairie lands and the more arid region to
                    the west, popular accounts were less discriminating. In 1828, for example, Niles' Weekly Register carried a little item on the desert, which drew ultimately
                    upon the scientific reports of Long, but which presented the data in more extravagant language for
                    popular consumption: 
                        AMERICAN DESERT. There is an extensive desert in the territory of the 
                                United States
                            , west of the 
                                Mississippi
                            , which is described in Long's Expedition to the Rocky Mountains. It
                            extends from the base of the Rocky Mountains 400 miles to the east, and is 500 from north to
                            south. There are deep ravines in which the brooks and rivers meander, skirted by a few
                            stunted trees, but all the elevated surface is a barren desert, covered with sand[,] gravel,
                            pebbles, &c. There are a few plants but nothing like a tree to be seen on these
                            desolate plains, and seldom is a living creature to be met with. The Platte, the 
                                Arkansas
                            , and other rivers flow through this dreary waste.18
                  
                    
            
            If Monroe and Adams and 
                        Jackson
                     intended to move the Indians from their verdant lands in the East into "this
                    dreary waste," their plans were despicable indeed. But was that their intention?
            The idea of removing the Indians to the vast wilderness west of the Mississippi originated long
                    before very much was known about the character of the region.19 Thomas Jefferson
                        
                  
                     17 Morris speaks of "the notion of a great American desert,
                            extending westward through the entire width of the 
                                United States
                             from approximately the one hundredth meridian to the Rockies." Morris,
                                Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XIII (September, 1926), 190. The
                            belief in the Great American Desert existed well beyond the middle of the nineteenth
                            century. For the later history of the myth see the works cited in note 7.
                  
                     18
                            Niles' Weekly Register, XXXV (September 27, 1828), 70.
                  
                     19 A detailed account of the origin and development of the removal
                            policy is Annie H. Abel, "The History of Events Resulting in Indian Consolidation
                            West of the 
                                Mississippi
                            ," Annual Report of the American Historical Association
                                for the Year 1906(2 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1908), I, 233-450.
               
                     in 1803 thought that the Louisiana Purchase might well be used
                    by the Indians, and before his term of office ended the notion of exchanging lands in the East for
                    those in the West was introduced cautiously among the Indians.20 Such a
                    movement, of course, would please the white settlers, who were anxious to be rid of the Indians, and
                    the legislature of Tennessee in 1803 politely suggested to Congress that the Louisiana Purchase
                    offered a fine opportunity to move the Indians out of Tennessee altogether.21 It
                    cannot be argued from these designs, however, that the intent was to force the Indians onto useless
                    lands, or for that matter onto lands less valuable than those they were asked to surrender. Although
                    some scattered accounts of the trans-Mississippi West were available, accurate detailed information
                    at the time was meager. One thing was clear, however: the country in the West was terribly large and
                    whites would not be able to fill it for generations.
            The removal suggestions of 1803 came to naught. After the War of 1812, however, the agitation was
                    renewed, and President James Monroe and John C. Calhoun worked earnestly for a change in the Indian
                    situation. Either the Indians would have to adopt the white man's way of life or move
                    beyond the Mississippi out of the way of the whites. A treaty was signed with the Cherokees in 1817,
                    by which some of the eastern holdings of the nation were exchanged for lands in 
                        Arkansas
                    , and the commissioners dealing with the Indians north of the Ohio in 1818 were urged to
                    be liberal in their offerings to induce the Indians to move west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    .22 Then the increasing pressure of 
                        Georgia
                     upon the Cherokee lands within the state gave new impetus to the removal policy in the
                    1820's, and President Monroe became definitely committed to it as the only alternative to
                    the destruction of the Indians. Although he opposed the extreme demands of the Georgians for the
                    expulsion of the Cherokees, Monroe became convinced that removal was the only salvation for the
                    Indians and recommended the policy in his special message to Congress in March, 1824, and again in
                    his annual 
                  
                     20 Secretary of War to Return J. Meigs, March 25 and May 5, 1808,
                            U.S., Office of the Secretary of War, Letters Sent, Indian Affairs, Vol. B, 364, 377, Record
                            Group 75 (National Archives).
                  
                     21 Robert H. White, Messages of the Governors of 
                                    Tennessee
                                
                     , Vol. I, 1796-1821 (
                                Nashville
                            , 1952), 153-154.
                  
                     22 James Monroe, First Annual Message, December 2, 1817, James D.
                            Richardson (comp.), A Compilation of the Messages and Papers of the
                            Presidents (10 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1896-1899), 11, 16; C. Vandeventer to Lewis Cass, June 29, 1818, US., Office
                            of the Secretary of War Letters Sent, Indian Affairs, Vol. D, 176-177, Record Group 75
                            (National Archives).
               
                     message in December. Finally on January 27, 1825, Monroe sent
                    to Congress a new special message on removal, insisting upon a liberal policy that would satisfy
                    both 
                        Georgia
                     and the Indians.25
            
            This final message of Monroe on removal was based upon the report drawn up by Calhoun, dated January
                    24, 1825. Since Calhoun's report is cited as an official plan to dispose of the Indians by
                    burying them in the Great American Desert,24 it must be looked at closely. Where
                    precisely did Calhoun recommend that the Indians be sent? To begin with, he divided the eastern
                    Indians into two groups. The smaller group consisted of those living in the northern parts of
                    Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , in 
                  Michigan, New York
               , and 
                        Ohio
                    . These Calhoun wanted to move into the region west of Lake Michigan and north of 
                        Illinois
                    —that is, into the present state of 
                        Wisconsin
                    . In support of this recommendation, he advanced the following arguments: 
                        The climate and the nature of the country are much more favorable to their habits than that
                            west of the 
                                Mississippi
                            ; to which may be added, that the Indians in 
                                New York
                             have already commenced a settlement at Green Bay, and exhibit some disposition
                            to make it a permanent one; and that the Indians referred to in Indiana, 
                                Illinois
                            , in the peninsula of 
                                Michigan
                            , and 
                                Ohio
                            , will find in the country designated kindred tribes, with whom they may be
                            readily associated. These considerations, with the greater facility with which they could be
                            collected in that portion of the country, compared with that of collecting them west of the 
                                Mississippi
                            , form a strong inducement to give it the preference.26
                  
                    Obviously, there is no question of Long's Great American Desert here.
            For the southern tribes and those in southern Illinois and Indiana—the great bulk of the
                    eastern Indians—Calhoun recommended lands lying west of Arkansas and 
                        Missouri
                    . Calhoun speaks of the area only in general terms as a "sufficient tract of
                    country west of the State of Missouri and Territory of 
                        Arkansas
                    ." There are no details in the report about the nature of the country to which
                    the Indians would be sent, most likely because Calhoun expected that lands would be assigned the
                    Indians which they themselves had examined 
                  
                     23 U.S., Congress, Senate Document No. 63, 18th
                            Cong., 1st Sess., 1823-1824; Richardson, Messages and Papers, II, 261,
                            280-283.
                  
                     24 Billington, Westward Expansion, 470; Hicks and
                            Mowry, Short History of American Democracy, 214-215; Paxson, History of the American Frontier, 276-277; Riegel, America Moves
                            West, 305; Riegel and Long, The American Story, I, 257; Robbins, Our Landed Heritage, 51.
                  25American State Papers, Indian Affairs (2 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1832-1834), II, 543.
               
                     and declared satisfactory. He emphasized that "no
                    arrangement ought to be made which does not regard the interest of the Indians as well as our
                        own."26 This concern to satisfy the Indians was echoed in 
                        Monroe
                    's message. The President proposed to convey to each tribe "a good
                    title to an adequate portion of land to which it may consent to remove," and asserted that
                    the full plan of removal—new lands, a stable government in the West, and added protection
                    against white encroachment—would undoubtedly induce the Indians to relinquish their old
                    lands and move west.27
            
            These official documents, it is true, cannot be expected to set forth explicitly an intention to
                    dispose of the Indians by removing them to worthless lands which the whites would never want, but
                    the documents are not intelligible if read in that sinister light. Nor do subsequent developments in
                    the removal program give any evidence that the plan of the government was to move the Indians out to
                    the Great American Desert.
            
               
                        Monroe
                    's proposals were not enacted by Congress in 1825, although Thomas Hart Benton
                    pushed through the Senate a bill incorporating the basic elements of Calhoun's report.28 Little, likewise, was done in the following administration; John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams adhered to 
                        Monroe
                    's removal policy for want of any better solution to the Indian problem.20 Adams' secretary of war, James Barbour, however, advocated removal
                    of the Indians as individuals rather than as tribes and in a long report of February 3, 1826, to the
                    chairman of the House Committee on Indian Affairs outlined his removal plans, the first point of
                    which was to set aside the country west of the Mississippi and between Lakes Michigan and Huron and
                    the Mississippi for the exclusive use of the Indians. He apologized a bit for including the area
                    east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , but argued that he was merely following the earlier suggestion of Calhoun, that the
                    Indians then occupied the area, and that "from its natural features, [it] is not desirable
                    at present for the habitation of our citizens." There was a note of genuine concern for the
                    Indians throughout the report, as Barbour candidly recounted the evils and injustice in previous
                    dealings with the Indians. He made no reference 
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., 543-544.
                  
                     27 Richardson, Messages and Papers, II, 281.
                  
                     28 U.S., Congress, Senate Journal, 18th Cong., 2d
                            Sess., 1824-1825, pp. 124, 130, 164, 186, 187.
                  
                     29
                            Memoirs of John 
                                    Quincy
                                 Adams, Comprising Portions of His Diary from 1795 to 1848, ed. Charles
                            Francis Adams (12 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1874-1877), VII, 113.
               
                     to the quality of the land in the West, but the assumption was
                    implicit in the report that the land would be suitable for the Indians as they approached
                    civilization. Barbour's main design was to prevent future conflicts between the Indians and
                    the whites over the land, such as were then raging in 
                        Georgia
                    . "The principal recommendation of this plan, next to the advantages to be
                    gained by ourselves," he wrote, "is, that the future residence of these people
                    will be forever undisturbed; that there, at least, they will find a home and a resting place; and
                    being exclusively under the control of the 
                        United States
                    , and, consequently, free from the rival claims of any of the States, the former may
                    plight its most solemn faith that it shall be theirs forever; and this guaranty is therefore
                        given."30 The Indians west of the Mississippi would be forever
                    secure in possession of the land—not because the whites would never want it, but because
                    the Indian title would be absolute and guaranteed.
            Barbour's proposals were heartily seconded by William Clark, superintendent of Indian
                    Affairs at 
                        St. Louis
                     and one of the best informed, most sympathetic, and most influential Indian officials.
                    Clark, in March, 1826, noted the changed relationship between the 
                        United States
                     and the Indians, that the red men were no longer a hostile threat to be put down by war
                    but had become instead "objects of pity and commiseration." He wanted the Indians
                    to be educated and instructed in agricultural pursuits and the ways of civilization, a possibility
                    only if the Indians could be removed from the existing contacts and conflicts with the whites. As
                    for the territory to which the Indians would be moved, Clark had the following comment: 
                        … the country west of Missouri and 
                                Arkansas
                            , and west of the Mississippi river, north of 
                                Missouri
                            , is the one destined to receive them. From all accounts, this country will be
                            well adapted to their residence; it is well watered with numerous small streams and some
                            large rivers; abounds with grass, which will make it easy to raise stock; has many salt
                            springs, from which a supply of the necessary article of salt can be obtained; contains much
                            prairie land, which will make the opening of farms easy; and affords a temporary supply of
                                game.81
                  
                    
            
            With proposals for removal heavy in the air, the House of Representatives requested of the secretary
                    of war in the middle of December, 1826, specific information on particular questions relative to the
                    removal policy and the Indians' reactions to it. A number of the points of inquiry had a
                    direct 
                  
                     30
                            American State Papers, Indian Affairs, II, 646-649.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., 653.
               
                     bearing on the nature of the country to which the Indians were
                    to move. The House resolution asked, among other things, whether the Indians were
                    "acquainted with the nature and situation of the country to which they are to be removed;
                    and to what particular district or districts of country West of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , they ought, in his opinion, to be removed."32 Barbour
                    turned the questions over to Thomas L. McKenney, head of the Office of Indian Affairs and a key
                    figure in Indian policy making. McKenney in his answers gave an honest picture of the state of
                    information available to the planners at the moment. He admitted frankly the lack of knowledge about
                    the nature of the land to which the Indians were to be removed and insisted that the lands be
                    examined and proved suitable before they are allotted to the Indians. And it was land suitable for
                    agricultural pursuits which concerned him, since the advocates of removal hoped to induce the
                    Indians to change to agricultural subsistence in their new homes. There was no question here of
                    finding land suitable for nomadic hunters. In McKenney's long reply there is not the
                    slightest hint that he thought of the area in question as the Great American Desert.
            McKenney answered the congressional queries point by point: "The Indians are not
                    'acquainted' with either 'the nature or situation of the country to which
                    it is proposed to remove them.' The 'particular district of country'
                    which has been looked to, for the permanent home of the Indians who should emigrate west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , is that which lies north of the river 
                        Arkansas
                    , and west of the State of 
                        Missouri
                    ; but, as no examination of it has been made, with a view to its occupancy by the tribes
                    now in the States east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , it cannot be known 'what particular district or districts of country west of
                    the Mississippi they ought to occupy.'" McKenney asserted that the first step
                    should be an actual examination of the western country to determine "its extent and fitness
                    for a last home for the most unfortunate of human beings." He thought it "not
                    unreasonable" that if the land in the West could be examined and judged suitable by a
                    deputation of the Indians themselves, the Indians would be willing to accept removal.33
            
            The examination of the western territory with a view to locating the Indians progressed slowly, but
                    there was no intention of sending the Indians to land they had not judged 
                  
                     32 U.S., Congress, House Journal, 19th Cong., 2d
                            Sess., 1826-1827, p. 66.
                  
                     33
                            American State Papers, Indian Affairs, II, 699-702.
               
                     suitable for their needs. Congress in May, 1828, appropriated
                    $15,000 for an exploration of the country west of the Mississippi and authorized the
                    appointment of commissioners to accompany the Indians.34 The commissioners in
                    their reports described the territory as far as they had examined it and set forth both advantages
                    and disadvantages. In general, however, the reports were favorable. One of the commissioners-Isaac
                    McCoy, a Baptist missionary and long-time friend of the Indians—declared that
                    "the country under consideration is adequate to the purpose of a permanent and comfortable
                    home for the Indians; and whatever may be the obstacles which at present oppose, they may
                    nevertheless be located there without recourse to any measure not in accordance with the most rigid
                    principles of justice and humanity."35 George B. Kennerly, who led the
                    expedition composed of deputations of the Choctaws, Chickasaws, and Creeks, reported,
                    "There is a sufficient quantity of well timbered and watered land on the Arkansas and its
                    tributaries for the whole of the southern Indians, if a proper distribution be made."36
            
            Not much could be accomplished, however, until Congress acted to authorize a large-scale removal and
                    to provide the funds this would require. Numerous bills were introduced and reports submitted as
                    pressure on the southern Indians mounted. A strong argument for removal continued to be the
                    assertion that by moving the Indians to lands which were outside any state or organized territory,
                    the question of conflict of claims to the land would cease since the federal government could and
                    would guarantee the Indians' rights to the western lands without danger of state
                        interference."37
            
            When Andrew 
                        Jackson
                     became president, the forces working for removal of the Indians took on new energy and
                    after long and bitter debate in Congress the Removal Bill became law on May 28, 1830.38 Work then began in earnest to draw up treaties of removal with the Indians, to direct
                    the actual migration, and to mark out the districts in the West to be allotted to each group.
            
               
                  34
                        
                     
                                United States
                             Statutes at Large, IV, 315.
               
                  35 U.S., Congress, House Report No. 87, 20th Cong., 2d
                        Sess., 1828-1829, p. 24.
               
                  36
                        Ibid., 25.
               
                  37 Report of House Committee on Indian Affairs, February 8, 1829, ibid., 1-3.
               
                  38
                        
                     
                                United States
                             Statutes at Large, IV, 411-412. The debates appear in U.S., Congress, Registel. of Debates, 21st Cong., 1st Sess., 1829-1830, pp. 305-367,
                    580-598.
            
            
            The situation was complex and confusing and, to facilitate the settlement of the Indians in the West,
                    Congress authorized in July, 1832, the appointment of three commissioners with extensive powers to
                    investigate the territory, to select tracts of land for the incoming Indians, and to adjudicate
                    conflicting claims.39 Secretary of War Lewis Cass gave the commissioners a long
                    set of instructions, in which he urged them to make arrangements that would satisfy the Indians and
                    thus preserve peace in the area. The commissioners were instructed particularly to welcome the
                    Indian delegations sent out to investigate the land and to see that they were satisfied.
                    "You will perceive," Cass told the three men, "that the general object is
                    to locate them all in as favorable positions as possible, in districts sufficiently fertile,
                    salubrious & extensive, & with boundaries, either natural or artificial, so
                    clearly defined, as to preclude the possibility of dispute. There is country enough for all,
                    & more than all. And the President is anxious, that full justice should be done to each,
                    & every measure adopted be as much to their satisfaction, as is compatible with the
                    nature of such an arrangement." The commissioners were asked to transmit to the War
                    Department all the information they could procure respecting the territory into which the Indians
                    were to move.40
            
            The commissioners submitted a report from Fort Gibson, dated February 10, 1834. The country acquired
                    from the western Indians for the purpose of providing land for the Indians coming from the East the
                    commissioners declared to be "very extensive," running from the Red River to
                    43°30′ north latitude, and from the western boundary of Missouri and Arkansas
                    to the 100th meridian. The climate, they reported, did not "materially vary from the
                    climate, in the corresponding degrees of latitude, in the Atlantic States, some distance in the
                    interior from the seaboard," and the soil, was of great diversity such "as
                    generally is found in the States bordering on the 
                        Mississippi
                    ." The commissioners reported considerable game but predicted that it would
                    soon be destroyed as the eastern Indians moved in. "The question then arises,"
                    they wrote," 'is the country able to furnish them a support in any other way; and
                    particularly is it calculated for the purposes of agriculture?' And this question the
                    commissioners answer unhesitatingly in the affirmative. They are 
                  
                            39
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, IV, 595-596.
                        
                  
                     40 U.S., Congress, House Executive Document No. 2,
                            22d Cong.,2d Sess., 1832-1833, pp. 32-37.
               
                     of opinion that there is a sufficiency of good first rate soil,
                    now belonging to those tribes who already have lands assigned to them, and in sufficient quantity
                    still undisposed of, to assign to such tribes as may hereafter choose to remove here, to support
                    them, if they will settle down like our white citizens and become agriculturist."41
            
            Other reports on inspection of the lands proposed for the eastern Indians were of like tenor. A
                    treaty with the Delaware Indians for removal west of Missouri provided that the lands be inspected
                    and agreed upon before the treaty would take effect.42 The agent appointed to
                    accompany the Indians in their tour was again Isaac McCoy. His report to the secretary of war in
                    April, 1831, described in some detail the lands extending about two hundred miles west of the
                    Missouri and Arkansas lines. "I beg leave, sir, to state distinctly," he reported,
                    "that I am confirmed in an opinion often expressed, that the country under consideration
                    may safely be considered favorable for settlement: the distance, on an average of two hundred miles
                    from the State of Missouri and Territory of 
                        Arkansas
                    , water, wood, soil, and stone, are such as to warrant this conclusion." McCoy
                    noted that the Delawares were so anxious to move to the new tract that they did not wait for the 
                        United States
                     aid promised in the treaty. This, McCoy asserted, furnished "the
                        best comment on the suitableness of that country for the permanent residence of the
                        Indians."
               43
            
            In a treaty signed at 
                        Chicago
                     on September 26, 1833, the Chippewa, 
                        Ottawa
                    , and Potawatomi tribes were granted a tract of land in western Iowa in exchange for
                    their lands east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , with the commonly included proviso that they were to send a delegation first to
                    inspect the land.44 The agent who accompanied the group kept a journal of the
                    expedition, and his comments on the excellence of the country were numerous and enthusiastic.
                    "The country over which we passed today," he wrote in a typical passage,
                    "is quite rolling—generally prairie but numerous groves of fine timber present
                    themselves in every direction. This country is equal in point of beauty & fertility to
                    any in the U. States."45
            
            
               
                  41 U.S., Congress, House Report No. 474, 23d Cong., 1st
                        Sess.,1833-1834, pp. 82-84.
               
                  42 Charles J. Kappler (ed.), Indian Affairs: Laws and
                            Treaties (2 vols., 
                            Washington
                        , 1904), II, 304-305.
               
                  43 U.S., Congress, House Document No. 512, Vol. II, 23d
                        Cong., 1st Sess., 1833-1834, pp. 435-436, 439. Italics are in the original.
               
                  44 Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties, II, 402.
               
                  45 William Gordon Journal, 1835, Potawatomi, Commissary General of
                        Subsistence Records, Record Group 75 (National Archives).
            
            
            
               Indiana University Library PLATE VI
            
            
            By 1834 areas west of the Mississippi had been allotted to the various Indian tribes. A map of these
                    areas, entitled "Map of the Western Territory, &c." (see Plate VI), was
                    prepared in the War Department at the request of the House Committee on Indian Affairs. It shows
                    definitively the lands to which the Indians were to be removed. In addition to 
                        Iowa
                    , which was still largely Indian country, the lands to be occupied by the Indians form a
                    block of territory lying adjacent to Missouri and 
                        Arkansas
                    . The strips of land designated for the Osages, Cherokees, Creeks, and Choctaws extend
                    west to the limit of 
                        United States
                     territory—that is, to the eastern boundary of the Texas panhandle at the
                    100th meridian—in order to give the tribes "outlets" to the west. The
                    lands of the other tribes are huddled in smaller allotments along the Missouri border. There is a
                    dotted line on the map running north and south from the Platte to the Red River, approximately two
                    hundred miles west of the Arkansas and Missouri boundaries, which is labeled "Western
                    boundary of habitable Land." All the districts except for the outlets of the Osages,
                    Cherokees, Creeks, and Choctaws lie to the east of this line. None of the areas falls within the
                    region commonly designated on the maps of the day as the Great American Desert.46
            
            Although the removal policy was carried out with determination, critics of the program were not
                    lacking. As aggression against the southern Indians increased and as the movement in Congress in
                    1829 and 1830 to pass a removal bill gained momentum, the outcry against forcing the Indians to move
                    reached great heights. Senator Theodore Freling-huysen of 
                        New Jersey
                    , Senator Peleg Sprague of 
                        Maine
                    , and others made long speeches in defense of Indian rights, and the press was filled
                    with articles condemning the 
                        Jackson
                     policy.
            What did these loud and determined critics have to say about the lands in the West to which the
                    Indians were to be removed? Did they condemn 
                        Jackson
                    's policy on the ground that the Indians were to exchange good land in the East
                    for desert country in the West? It is remarkable how seldom this question entered into the argument.
                    Senator Sprague, it is true, condemned the policy of moving the Indians "to a distant and
                    an unsubdued wilderness" and "to frowning forests, surrounded with naked
                        savages."47 But his concern was 
                  
                     46 U.S., Congress, House Report No. 474, following
                            p. 131.
                  
                     47 U.S., Congress, Register of Debates, 21st Cong.,
                            1st Sess., 1829-1830, p. 356.
               
                     about moving the Cherokees away from the farms they had already
                    improved and developed to new land where they would have to begin anew rather than about any reputed
                    desert characteristics of the land.
            The great argument against removal rested on the guaranteed rights of the Indians to the lands they
                    occupied in the East and on the force of existing treaty obligations. The innumerable memorials
                    which poured into Congress from the North and Northeast had as their plea that the rights of the
                    Indians to their lands in the East be protected. The memorials did not argue about the quality of
                    land to be given the Indians in the West. Had there been indications that the 
                        Jackson
                     administration intended to send the Indians into worthless desert land, it is
                    inconceivable that this fact would not have been pounced upon by the administration's
                    critics.
            The most important spokesman against removal in 1829 and 1830 was the Reverend Jeremiah Evarts,
                    secretary of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, in 
                        Boston
                    . The missionaries of the American Board had been prominent in the Cherokee nation and
                    strongly supported the Indians in their refusal to move. Evarts, as the most articulate spokesman of
                    the group, published a series of articles under the name "William Penn" in which
                    he exhausted the arguments against 
                        Jackson
                     and the Georgians. These articles appeared first in the National
                        Intelligencerand then were circulated widely in book form.48 Only in
                    the final article, Number XXIV, did Evarts advert to the land in the West. He described it as
                    prairie land, not as desert; and he questioned its suitableness for the Indians because of the lack
                    of streams and timber. "The vast prairies of the west will ultimately be
                    inhabited," he remarked. "But it would require all the wealth, the enterprise, and
                    the energy, of Anglo-Americans, to make a prosperous settlement upon them." Because the
                    land was habitable, however, Evarts argued that the removal plan would settle
                    nothing permanently: 
                        Another removal will soon be necessary. If the emigrants become poor, and are transformed
                            into vagabonds, it will be evidence enough, that no benevolent treatment can save them, and
                            it will be said they may as well be driven beyond the Rocky Mountains at once. If they live
                            comfortably, it will prove, that five times as many white people might live comfortably in
                            their places. Twenty-five years hence, there will probably be 4,000,000 of our population
                            west of the 
                                Mississippi
                            , and 
                        
                           48 [Jeremiah Evarts], Essays on the Present
                                        Crisis in the Condition of the American Indians (
                                        Boston
                                    , 1829.
                     
                             fifty years hence not less than 15,000,000. By that
                            time, the pressure upon the Indians will be much greater from the boundless prairies, which
                            must ultimately be subdued and inhabited, than it would ever have been from the borders of
                            the present Cherokee country.49
                  
                    
            
            This was remarkable prescience. It is also a clear indication that Evarts did not think the Indians
                    were being moved to a sterile wasteland.
            What conclusion, then, is to be drawn about the relationship between the concept of the Great
                    American Desert and Indian removal?
            The idea of removal—that is, the exchange of lands in the East for lands in the
                    West—originated in Jefferson's administration, when the Louisiana Purchase made
                    the scheme feasible. The plan then developed slowly. Removal treaties were signed from 1817 on, with
                    the urgency for removal increasing as the desire of the whites for eastern lands increased. In the
                    1820's the agitation reached new heights because of the action of 
                        Georgia
                     and other southern states to force the Indians form their land holdings in those
                    states. The Cherokee action in adopting a new constitution, which emphasized their sovereignty
                    within the state of 
                        Georgia
                    , and the discovery of gold on the Indian lands brought matters to a head, and after
                    some delay Congress in 1830 enacted legislation which provided the means for carrying out the
                    removal policy that had been adopted by President Monroe and supported by his successor, John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams. The adoption and speeding up of the program in the 1820's was
                    occasioned by events in the East—not in the West. The idea of the great desert found in
                    the reports of Long's explorations had nothing to do with the origin or the development of
                    the removal policy.
            When the time came to make definite allotments of land for the eastern Indians, considerable pains
                    were taken to investigate the nature of the West in order to make sure that it offered suitable
                    resources for the Indians. Delegations of the Indians were sent to look at the land for themselves
                    before accepting the allotments. Sympathetic friends of the Indians who had first-hand contact with
                    the region reported favorably on its suitability. Opponents of removal offered little criticism of
                    the policy on the basis of giving the Indians poor land in return for what they relinquished in the
                    East. Nowhere did Long's report enter into the discussion.
            
               
                  49
                        Ibid., 98, 100.
            
            
            Nor did the land allotted to the emigrating Indians in fact fall within the area
                    generally conceived at the time to be an uninhabitable desert. If this was due to conscious policy,
                    the idea that the Indians were deliberately disposed of in the desert loses all credibility. If this
                    happened only by chance, because of lack of accurate knowledge about the West or because of failure
                    to consider this aspect of the question at all, the officials who engineered removal cannot be
                    accused of intentionally removing the Indians to a useless wilderness.
            There is no doubt that the removal policy brought hardship and injustice to the Indians. The red men
                    were forced to move from their cherished ancestral lands, to which their rights had been clearly
                    guaranteed. But the removal plan was never a scheme to dump the Indians into the desolate wastes of
                    the Great American Desert.
         
         
         
            Minutes of the Board of Trustees for 
                        Vincennes
                     University (October 3, 1828-July 4, 1842)
            
                    Edited by Robert Constantine*
               
                
            During the last several years the Indiana Magazine of History has published the
                    minutes of the board of trustees of 
                        Vincennes
                     University from their beginning in December, 1806, until April, 1824.1 In that period of nearly twenty years, the school's history demonstrated both the
                    transplanted Easterners' characteristic eagerness to found educational institutions in the
                    West and the countless frustrations and obstacles which stood between this ideal and its
                    realization. Drawing upon the enthusiasm and talents of leaders of the Indiana Territory and
                    financed chiefly by the proceeds from the sale of part of a congressional land grant in 
                        Gibson County
                    ,2
                    
                        Vincennes
                     University made some progress during its early years: a two-story brick building was
                    completed in 1811, and for a dozen years thereafter students were taught in the
                    "English" and Grammar schools which the university founded and administered.
            At the same time the facts of frontier life in general and of 
                        Vincennes
                    ' status in territorial and state affairs in particular worked against the
                    successful launching of a college program. There were chronic shortages of money, of
                    "scholars," and of purchasers of the university's land in 
                        Gibson County
                     and, by the end of the War of 1812, 
                        Vincennes
                     itself had lost or was losing the peculiar political and economic importance it had
                    possessed as territorial capital and as a major center for western migration. If one adds to such
                    problems the general impact on the region of the Panic of 1819 and the specific action of the
                    Indiana General Assembly in appropriating the university's 
                        Gibson County
                     lands for the support of the Indiana State Seminary at 
                        Bloomington
                    ,8 it 
                  * Robert Constantine is associate professor of history at Indiana State College, 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
                  
                     1 Robert Constantine (ed.), "Minutes of the Board of Trustees
                            for 
                                Vincennes
                             University," Indiana Magazine of History, LIV
                            (December, 1958), 313-364; LV (September, 1959), 247-293; LVII (December, 1961),311-367.
                  
                     2 See Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LIV
                            (December, 1958), 316, following p. 316.
                  
                     3 See ibid., LVII (December, 1961), 363n.
               
                     is not surprising that the board found it difficult to maintain
                    a continuing school program and was apparently forced to suspend its academic functions at various
                    times. In fact, in this regard 
                        Vincennes
                     University conformed to the general pattern of such suspensions among American colleges
                    founded in the ante-bellum period when religious sects and state governments zealously created
                    colleges and universities in excess of adequate faculties, student bodies, and means of financial
                    support.
            The present installment of the minutes begins in October, 1828, following a lapse of more than four
                    years for which no official records have been found. In the meantime, the Indiana General Assembly
                    had in 1824 established the 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary and initially vested its administrative control in the 
                        Vincennes
                     University board of trustees.4 Funds for the support of the
                    seminary's educational program and the maintenance of the "seminary"
                    building were to include the penal funds collected within 
                        Knox County
                    . In this provision the General Assembly was carrying out the mandate of the Indiana
                    Constitution of 1816 that these fines be used to finance schools.
            In 1825 the General Assembly transferred the financial and administrative control of the seminary to
                    a single trustee appointed by the county commissioners.5 In 1828, an act
                    "to provide for the government of the Seminary of 
                        Knox county
                    ,"6 placed its control in a five-man elected board. The
                    opening minutes of this installment record the organizational meeting of the first board elected
                    under the provisions of the 1828 act.
            Later, in 1836, a legislative act established the 
                        Vincennes
                     Academy, which from 1836 until 1839 used the university building for classes and shared
                    in the public funds available for educational purposes.7 Then, in 1838, the
                    corporate existence of 
                        Vincennes
                     University was restored in order to take advantage of funds that were to be available
                    for which the 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary was not considered eligible.8 For a short period, 
                        Vincennes
                     Academy, 
                        Vincennes
                     University, and 
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 367n; Indiana, Revised Laws (1823-1824), 116-120.
                  
                     5 Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LVII
                            (December, 1961), 267n; Indiana, Laws (1825), 96.
                  
                     6 Indiana, Laws (1827-1828), 121-123.
                  
                     7 Indiana, Local Laws (1835-1836), 95-98.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., (1837-1838), 281-282.
               
                    
                    
                        Knox County
                     Seminary were in operation at the same time. While the available records do indicate
                    that there was a certain amount of overlapping of individual memberships on the three boards, they
                    do not make clear the exact jurisdiction of each board over the school programs, the building, or
                    the public funds allocated for education and maintenance.
            It is particularly difficult to determine the relationship between the boards and the various schools
                    conducted in the university building between 1828 and 1842. It is clear, however, that the seminary and university boards granted permission to individuals to set up private
                    schools in the building. And it is also clear that the academy and university
                    boards each set up and financed the operation of some kind of school program. Regardless, though, of
                    how the schools were financed and who administered them, with only brief exceptions the building
                    housed throughout the period a broad school program for boys and girls of all ages. In a period when
                    academic curricula were still largely unstructured and tuition-attracting courses were of first
                    importance (especially to teachers whose income was usually solely dependent thereon), the scope, if
                    not the depth, of the educational programs was impressive. Thus, several of the teachers hired or
                    granted use of the building by the boards offered the "elementary branches of Geography,
                    Grammar, Arithmetic and Writing," plus "all the English branches," such
                    as composition and rhetoric, and Latin and Greek. In other instances something approaching the
                    modern elementary, secondary, and higher education categories of instruction can be identified. One
                    school conducted in the late 1820's by a teacher and two assistants offered only the
                    "elementary branches" to the hundred boys and girls who attended. On the other
                    hand, the curricula of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Academy in the 1830's and of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University Grammar School and 
                        Vincennes
                     University Preparatory Department in the 1840's were for more advanced
                    students, containing as they did the ancient and modern languages, mathematics, and moral and
                    natural philosophy for college preparatory students as well as "mercantile and
                    practical" subjects—surveying, accounting, etc.—for terminal
                    students. But the closest to a college-level program during the period was that provided by the
                    ambitious but short-lived 
                        Vincennes
                     University Medical College in 1837-1838.
            
            A pressing—and perennial—problem that faced the newly-elected seminary board of
                    trustees in 1828 was the need to secure funds for the operation of an educational program. The board
                    explored the possibilities of recovering money allegedly misappropriated by an earlier trustee and
                    of compelling the local courts and justices of the peace to turn over the penal fines dedicated for
                    education. Later, the university board would continue to struggle with finances, putting pressure on
                    the borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     to share the proceeds from the sale of the commons land as authorized by Congress9 and deciding in the late 1830's to lease or sell the university
                    building to provide needed operating funds.
            But such essentially financial problems were not the only ones to be solved by the various boards:
                    the building had to be maintained, teachers and students encouraged to use facilities and programs,
                    and the boards themselves needed to be kept intact. The last, which had frequently been a problem
                    before 1824, was later aggravated by the frequent changes in the university's legal status.
                    Moreover, by the 1830's a number of additional voluntary associations had made their
                    appearance in the 
                        Vincennes
                     area to compete with the boards of trustees for the time and energies of men with
                    cultural interests; among these were the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company and the Historical and Antiquarian, Thespian, and Temperance societies.
                    Similarly the competition for students and teachers became increasingly keen as the number of
                    sectarian and other private schools grew and the "free school" movement gained
                    adherents.
            Despite the many legal, financial, academic, and personnel problems it faced, the university board of
                    trustees during the period of these minutes—and particularly after the reestablishment of
                    its corporate identity in 1838—made gains in a number of areas by 1842: its debts were
                    paid and prospects for additional income were brighter; a lot had been acquired and the possibility
                    of a new building was being discussed; a continuing educational program under the direction of the
                    board was again available and plans for expansion were under consideration.
            
               
                  9
                        Ibid.; U.S., Annals of Congress, 15th Cong., 1st Sess.,
                        1817-1818, II, 2592.
            
            
            
                    MINUTES AND PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE KNOX COUNTY SEMINARY
                    1
                
            [October 3, 18281
            At a meeting of the board of Trustees for the County Seminary of 
                        Knox County
                     at the Court House in 
                        Vincennes
                     on Friday the 3d day of October A.D. 1828,2 When present: David S.
                        Banner,3 John C. Holland,4 Hiram Decker,5 Andrew Armstrong,6 Andrew Burnsides,7 Trustees
                    elect.
            The Trustees were then duly sworn into office by Homer Johnson Esqr. Clerk of the Circuit Court in
                    and for the County of 
                        Knox
                    ; agreeably to the first Sec. of the act of the 
                  
                     1 In editing these minutes original spelling has been faithfully
                            followed, and, with some exceptions, original punctuation has been retained. Periods have
                            been added after abbreviations and initials of persons; they have also been used at the ends
                            of paragraphs. Decimal points have been added. Commas have been inserted only to separate
                            series of words and phrases. The abbreviations "A.M.,"
                            "P.M.," "A.D.," etc., have been standardized by uniform
                            use of capital letters and periods. At times dollars and cents are written with fractions
                            instead of decimal points; wherever this occurs, the fraction has been converted to a
                            decimal, as: $137 72 1/4/100 became $137.72 1/4. A colon has been used
                            consistently following "viz.," 'i.e.," "to
                            wit," and before each list of board members present at a meeting; a colon has been
                            added occasionally where its use was clearly indicated. Quotations and parentheses have not
                            been closed if they were unclosed in the original. Superior letters have been brought down
                            to the line; unintentional repetitions have been omitted. Space limitations have prompted
                            the listing of members present and the recording of votes in series instead of the columns
                            which often appear in the original. Inconsistent or unusual spacing used in the original
                            minutes has dictated some modification of spacing and paragraphing for the sake of clarity
                            and uniformity; the locations of headings and signatures have also been standardized. Topic
                            headings and other notations which appear at time in the margins of the minute book have not
                            been included in this reproduction.
                  
                     2 The 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun,September 27, 1828, had printed anonymous communication in
                            which the writer remarked, with some asperity, that he "did not know whether the
                            trustees [elected in August] have met and organized, but did know that the interest of the
                            people, and the institution, requires something should be done and speedily." He
                            then demanded "a meeting of the gentlemen elected Trustees … on
                            Saturday, the 4th of October next, at the tavern of Mr. John C. Clark."
                  
                     3 David Bonner engaged in a variety of business ventures in 
                                Vincennes
                            . In 1832 he was listed as president of the Wabash Insurance Company and in 1834
                            as manager of the Eagle Cotton Factory. As representative from 
                                Knox County
                             in the Indiana General Assembly in 1831 and 1832, Bonner served on the
                            committee which drew up the constitution for the Indiana Lyceum. 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, August 18, 1832; November 1, 1834. (Hereafter cited as Western Sun.)
                  
                     4 John C. Holland was in the saddling business in 
                                Vincennes
                            .Western Sun, April 8, 1826; January 6, 1827.
                  
                     5 Hiram Decker was a physician in 
                                Vincennes
                             and one of the organizers of the 
                                Knox County
                             medical society. 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Gazette, April 28, 1832. (Hereafter cited as Gazette.)
                  
                     6 Andrew Armstrong's obituary notice described him as
                            "long a respectable farmer of this county." Western Sun,
                            September 6, 1835.
                  
                     7 Andrew Burnsides owned property in and a farm near Bruceville at
                            this time.
               
                     General Assembly entitled "An act to provide for the
                    government of the Seminary of 
                        Knox County
                    . Approved January 24th 1828.8
            
            The board then proceeded by ballot to the election of a President; when it appeared that David S.
                    Bonner, one of the board, was duly elected, and he thereupon took his seat.
            The Board in a like manner proceeded to the election of a Treasurer; when John C. S. Harrison 9 was duly elected.
            The Board in like manner elected Genl. W. Johnston10 secretary.
            Ordered, that the Board do adjourn to meet at this place on Saturday the 18th of October Instant at
                    10 O'C. A.M.
            D. S. Bonner Presd.
            Saturday October 18th 1828. 10 O'C. A.M.
            The Board met according to adjournment. Present: David S. Bonner, Prest., John C. Holland, Hiram
                    Decker, And. Armstrong, Trustees.
            Genl. W. Johnston being notified of his election as Secretary, this day took the requisite oath of
                    office, before Frederick Graeter Esqr. one of the acting Justices of the Peace in and for the County
                    of 
                        Knox
                    .
            The Minutes of the former day's sittings and proceedings being then read and approved of,
                    was signed by the President in open board.
            J. C. S. Harrison Esqr. who was elected at the former meeting as Treasurer, having declined
                    accepting; whereupon the board proceeded by ballot, to elect a Treasurer and upon 
                  
                     8 This law provided that "the county Seminary of 
                                Knox county
                            , shall hereafter be under the direction of five trustees, to be elected at the
                            general election in August, or at such special election as may be called for that purpose
                            … to continue in office three years … and all vacancies thereafter
                            … shall be supplied in like manner …" The law further
                            provided for the election by the board of a president "from themselves"
                            and a treasurer and a secretary who were not to be chosen from among the five elected
                            members. Indiana, Laws (1827- 1828), 121-123.
                  
                     9 See Robert Constantine (ed.), "Minutes of the Board of
                            Trustees for 
                                Vincennes
                             University," Indiana Magazine of History, LVII
                            (December, 1961), 362n. According to a report received by the board of trustees at its
                            meeting of June 1, 1829 (see below, p. 335ff.), Harrison served as trustee of the 
                                Knox County
                             Seminary from 1826 to 1828, under the terms of an act of the Indiana General
                            Assembly approved February 12, 1825. This act specified that the trustee of a county
                            seminary could either be appointed by the county commissioners or be elected in the August
                            general election for a term of three years. Indiana, Revised Laws
                            (1823-1824), 116-120.
                  
                     10 See Robert Constantine (ed.), "Minutes of the Board of
                            Trustees for 
                                Vincennes
                             University," Indiana Magazine of History, LIV
                            (December, 1958), 32211.
               
                     counting the ballots Doctr. Jacob Kuykendall 11 was declared unanimously elected.
            Ordered that Andrew Armstrong be appointed to wait on Doctr. Kuykendall and inform him of his
                    election; and that he enter into bond according to law.
            Ordered, that the board now adjourn to meet at the office of G. W. Johnston on Tuesday the 4th of
                    Novr. at 2 O'clock P.M.
            D. S. Bonner Presd.
            Tuesday, November 4th A.D. 1828. 2 O'C. P.M.
            The board met according to adjournment. Present: David S. Bonner, President, John C. Holland, Hiram
                    Decker, & And. Armstrong, Trustees.
            The Minutes of the last meeting were then read, and signed by the President.
            On Motion of Mr. Armstrong, Resolved, that our Secretary be and he is hereby directed, to address the
                    Secretary of State, requesting him to furnish the board with a List of the Commissioned Justices of
                    the Peace of 
                        Knox County
                    , from the Organization of our state government; and the date of their Commissions.
            Ordered, that the board do now adjourn, to meet here again on Monday the 17th Instant, at 2
                    O'C. P.M.
            D. S. Bonner Presd.
            Monday, November 17th 1828.
            There not appearing a sufficient number of Members to form a Quorum, the board adjourned to meet here
                    again on the first Monday in January 1829, at one O'clock P.M.
            G. W. Johnston. Secry.
            1st Monday, January 5th 1829.
            The Board met, according to appointment, when present: David S. Bonner, President, Andrew Burnsides,
                    Hiram Decker, & John C. Holland, Trustees.
            The Minutes of the last meeting were read, and signed by the President.
            The Secretary laid before the board the certificate which he had obtained, agreeably to the former
                    order, from the 
                  
                     11 See ibid., 320n.
               
                     Secretary of state of Indiana; whereupon, Resolved, that the
                    Treasurer of this board, be & he is hereby directed to examine the Clerks Office of the
                    County, and the Dockets of the several Justices of the Peace, in order to ascertain whether the
                    Fines assessed, either in court or before such Justices, from the organization of the state
                    government until this time, have been collected & paid over according to law and that he
                    report thereon at as early a period as in his power.12
            
            Resolved, that the Treasurer be & he is hereby directed to call upon and receive from
                    Isaac Blackford Esqr.13 whatever Books & papers he may have in his
                    hands, as former Secretary of the board, or otherwise, belonging to this institution.
            The President laid before the board a letter (and an accompanying receipt) from J. C. S. Harrison
                    Esqr. former Trustee; which being read, is ordered to be filed. Whereupon, Ordered, that a committee
                    be appointed to examine the Accounts & vouchers of the late Trustee of the seminary; and
                    report thereon to this board, at its next meeting. And the same was appointed, consisting of Messrs.
                    Decker & Holland.
            The Treasurer reported, verbally, that he had received of J. C. S. Harrison, late Trustee, in Cash
                    $137.72 1/4—and in 
                        Vincennes
                     Bank14 paper & its branches, in a sealed envelop,
                    $326. And of Wm. Raper Esqr. J. P. K. C. in cash $9.50—also, of
                    Joseph McClure Esqr. J. P. K. C. $2.00.
            Resolved, that a committee be appointed to ascertain in what manner, and upon what terms Mr. Thomas
                    Bishop became employed to make repairs to the Seminary—and what, if any balance is now
                    due him, upon a conscionable settlement, by this institution; And that they report to the board. And
                    the same was appointed, consisting of Messrs. Burnsides & Decker.
            
               
                  12 The act of January 24, 1828, providing for the government of the 
                            Knox County
                         Seminary, authorized the treasurer under the direction of the board to
                        "ask, demand, and receive, all monies belonging to said Seminary, institute suit to
                        recover such sum or sums as have not otherwise been collected … demand and receive of
                        any person or persons having possession of same, all the books and papers, and property
                        … relating to the affairs of, and property belonging to the said institution, at any
                        time since its erection." The board of trustees was required to present annually to the
                        county governing board "a detailed report … of the true situation of the
                        [seminary fund]." Indiana, Laws (1827-1828), 122.
               
                  13 There is no indication in the minutes that the desired books and
                        records were obtained at that time. The editor has not found any financial record books for the
                        periods covered by the several installments of the minutes. See Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LIV (December, 1958), 331n. Blackford was appointed
                        secretary of the board in 1817. Ibid., LVII (December, 1961), 328n, 328-367
                            passim.
               
               
                  14 See ibid., 353n.
               
            
            
            Ordered, that a committee be appointed to enquire after & collect the Benches &
                    Tables belonging to the seminary, and have the same preserved in the building—and should
                    said committee conceive it adviseable, have Locks & fastenings placed upon the doors of
                    the house.15 Whereupon the same was appointed consisting of Messrs. Holland
                    & Decker.
            Ordered, that J. C. S. Harrison be allowed the sum of Fourteen dollars & fifteen cents,
                    for so much money paid by him to Truman Perrin,16 for Plank &c. for
                    the Seminary, per Accot. & vouchers filed; and that the Treasurer pay the same out of any
                    funds in his hands.
            Ordered, that the Secretary certify to Andrew Gardner & Danl. Moore, that they were
                    allowed by the former board of trustees, on the 20th Septr. 1823, the sum of Thirty five dollars
                    & twelve cents—and that the Treasurer pay the same out of any money in his
                    hands.
            The board then adjourned, to meet at this place, on Monday the 19th Instant, at 1 0'C. P.M.
            D. S. Bonner Presd.
            Monday, January 19th 1829.
            The board met, according to adjournment—Present: David S. Bonner, President, Andrew
                    Burnsides, Andrew Armstrong, John C. Holland, Trustees.
            The Minutes of the last meeting were then read, and signed by the President.
            Resolved, that the board do now adjourn, to meet here on the first Monday of March next, at 10.
                    0'C. A.M. And that the regular & stated days of meeting thereafter, shall be on
                    the First Monday in every Month.
            Adjourned.
            D. S. Bonner Presd.
            Wednesday, Jany. 28th 1829.
            Special meeting of the board, by Order of the President. Present: David S. Bonner, President, And.
                    Armstrong, John C. Holland, & Hiram Decker, Trustees.
            
               
                  15 Concern over "depredations … being
                        committed" on the seminary building had been expressed earlier in a letter to the Western Sun, August 25, 1828. The writer urged parents to restrain their
                        children and prevent further damage.
               
                  16 Perrin conducted a school in the seminary building during the time that
                        Harrison was serving as trustee.Western Sun,September 16, 1826; April 28,
                        1827.
            
            
            The proceedings of the last meeting were then read, and signed by the President.
            Mr. Decker from the committee appointed at the Meeting on the 5th Inst. to ascertain the manner
                    & terms of Mr. Thos. Bishop's work done on the seminary building, and the
                    balance, if any due him, now reported in writing, which being read, and some difficulties arising
                    thereon; On Motion, it is ordered, that the said report be refer'd back to the same
                    committee, with directions to report in a more detailed and specific manner.
            Ordered, that the board do now adjourn; to meet here again, on Monday the 2d day of February next at
                    11 O'clock A.M.
            D. S. Bonner Presd.
            Monday, February 2d 1829.
            The board met according to adjournment. Present: David S. Bonner, President, John C. Holland,
                    & Hiram Decker, Trustees.
            The proceedings of the last meeting were read & signed.
            Mr. Decker from the committee which was appointed to examine the claim & Account of Thomas
                    Bishop for work done, and materials furnished for the 
                        Knox County
                     seminary building, now made the foll[ow]ing written report, i.e.:
            "That on examination it is found that he, (T. Bishop) was employed by the former Trustees of
                    the institution, to make such repairs as were believed necessary at the time, to secure the same
                    from the weather and consequent destruction; and to fit up some of the rooms for the accommodation
                    of a school. His bill for such repairs & materials, amounts to
                    $320.34—and the sum of $243.50, has been paid by voluntary
                    subscription by the Citizens; leaving a balance of $76.84. And a balance is found on the
                    subscription papers of $19.50, to wit:
            A. Massey $10.00, G. R. C. Sullivan $5.00, Thos. Baird
                    $2.00,E.Stout $2.00, and W. A. Twigg $50. = $19.50.
            A finall part of A. Massey's subscription appears to have been paid in hauling materials
                    &c. deducting this amount it will leave a balance unpaid of $57.34. The
                    Account for work is believed to be high; but as the work cannot be valued at this late period, and
                    as it was superintended by One of the Trustees in person, and the said Account made out and said  charges received by the said trustees, together with the
                    consideration of a large portion of it having been paid by the subscriptions above mentioned; it is
                    recommended by the Committee to receive the Account, and pay the balance of $76.84 Cents,
                    out of the funds of the institution."
            Which report being read on Motion, the same was concurred in, and Ordered to be recorded.
            In conformity wherewith, It is Ordered that the said Thomas Bishop be allowed the said sum of seventy
                    six dollars & eighty four cents, in full of his demand; and that the same be paid him by
                    the Treasurer out of any funds in his hands not otherwise appropriated.
            Ordered further, That the Treasurer immediately proceed, and if practicable collect from the several
                    persons reported above to be in arrears for the subscriptions made by them, and appearing on the
                    different subscription papers.
            Ordered, that the board do now adjourn.
            D. S. Bonner Pres.
            First Monday March 2d 1829
            The board met according to Adjournment Present: David S. Bonner, President, And. Burnsides, And.
                    Armstrong, and Hiram Decker, Trustees.
            The Minutes of the last meeting were read & signed.
            Mr. Decker from the Committee appointed to examine the Accounts of the late Treasurer J. C. S.
                    Harrison, now made the following report,
            
               
                  "That they have had the same under examination; and find that the amot. received
                            from Saml. T. Scott,17former Treasurer, was
                  $27.43
               
               
                  From the different Justices of K. County
                  49.50
               
               
                  " H. Johnson Clerk K. C.
                  60.50
               
               
                  Interest on Loans
                  5.18 3/4
               
               
                   
                  $142.61 3/4
               
            
            
               
                  17 Information on Reverend Samuel T. Scott's school, which he
                        operated in the university building from 1811 to 1815 and again in 1818, may be found in Robert
                        Constantine (ed.), "Minutes of the Board of Trustees for 
                            Vincennes
                         University," Indiana Magazine of History, LV (September,
                        1959), 277n, 288n, and passim. For additional information on his role as a
                        member of the board, see ibid.,, LVII (December, 1961), 323n, 316-367 passim. Scott was appointed the trustee of the 
                            Knox County
                         seminary fund in December, 1818, by Governor Jonathan Jennings. Dorothy Riker
                        (ed.), Executive Proceedings of the State of Indiana, 1816-1836 (Indiana Historical
                            Collections, Vol. XXIX; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1947), 90.
            
            
            Making the aggregate sum of $142.61 3/4. Which sum appears to have been paid over to J.
                    Kuykendall the present Treasurer after deducting the following items
            
               
                  Cash paid for Book
                  $.62 1/2
               
               
                  His per centage, @ 3 pr. ct.
                  4.27
               
               
                   
                  $4.89 1/2
               
            
            Which leaves a balance, as paid over, of One hundred & thirty seven dollars &
                    72 1/1 Cents, as per receipt herewith submitted, and marked No. 1.
            It further appears from said receipt that the sum of $326 was received from Saml. T. Scott
                    former Treasurer, in Notes on the State Bank of Indiana and its branches; which paper is of no
                    value—and from a Memorandum of a receipt given to Saml. T. Scott, bearing date the 14th
                    Sept. 1825, it appears only to have been received conditionally, which condition is, if said
                    Institution or the Legislature do not receive said paper, then the said Scott holds himself bound to
                    pay the amount in good money. Which the committee respectfully submit."
            Which said report, after being read & considered, was On Motion, concurred in by the
                    board.
            And upon further Motion, it is Ordered, that so much of the said report as respects the conditional
                    acceptance of the 326 $ 
                        Vincennes
                     Bank & branch paper by the former Treasurer of the Revd. Saml. T. Scott, now
                    deed., be refered to a select committee of Messrs. Decker, Burnsides, & Holland, and that
                    they report thereon to the next regular meeting.
            on Motion, Ordered that Gustavus Reeves have permission to occupy for himself & family, a
                    room in the seminary, now unoccupied or in use; until the same may be wanted for some public
                    purpose—he taking all practicable care of the building.
            On Motion, Resolved that the Secretary of this board, Genl. W. Johnston, be & he is hereby
                    allowed the sum of Seven dollars & fifty Cents, for his services at five meetings of the
                    board—and that in future he shall receive one dollar & fifty Cents for each
                    stated or occasional meeting of the board; to be paid him, upon his own order, by the Treasurer out
                    of any monies in his hands.
            Ordered, that the board do now adjourn.
            D. S. Bonner Presd.
            
            [April 6, 18291
            First Monday in April, being the 6th of the Mo. Present: And. Burnsides & And. Armstrong,
                    Trustees. A Quorum of the board not attending, Adjd.
            Teste G. W. Johnston. Clk.
            [May 4, 18291
            First Monday in May, being the 4th day of the Month. The Board met Present: David S. Bonner,
                    President, And. Armstrong, And. Burnsides, John C. Holland, & Hiram Decker, Trustees.
            Mr. Decker from the Committee appointed on the 2d March ulto. to examine & report upon the
                    conditional payment of the $326 in paper by the late Revd. S. T. Scott Treasurer,
                    Reported, That owing to the intricacy of the subject and difficulty of getting the necessary
                    information, they beg leave to recommend to the board the expediency of appointing &
                    requesting our Secretary Genl. W. Johnston, to make such examination & investigation as
                    his legal information may warrant, and report to this board.
            Which report was upon motion, concurred in by the board; and the said Committee thereupon discharged.
            On Motion, Ordered that Genl. W. Johnston be allowed a reasonable sum for the performance of the
                    above duties.
            Ordered that the board do now adjourn—and then it adjourned accordingly.
            D. S. Bonner Presd.
            First Monday, June 1st 1829
            The board met, Present: David S. Bonner, President, And. Armstrong, Jno. C. Holland, Hiram Decker,
                    Trustees.
            The Minutes of the 2d March and 4th May, were then read and signed by the President.
            Genl. W. Johnston under appointment of the board at the last meeting, then made & read the
                    following report, vizt:
            "The undersigned under appointment & instruction of the board of Trustees of the 
                        Knox County
                     seminary to examine as to, and upon the liability of the late Revd. Samuel T. Scott
                    former Trustee of the said seminary, to re-imburse and make good to the seminary the sum of
                    $326.26 said to be received  by him in paper of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Bank and its branches; and paid over by him to his successor J. C. S. Harrison; and by
                    the latter to the present Treasurer Doct. J. Kuykendall, and now in his hands.
            Reports That having examined the Law, and collected all the testimony in his power, he finds the
                    state of things to be as follows, vizt:
            First, as to facts. Mr. Scott came into office under the Act of 1818, (No. 1)18
                    And it appears by the Books of Albert Badollet Treasurer of 
                        Knox County
                    , that upon the 25th February 1819, he paid to S. T. Scott Trustee of the Seminary, the
                    sum of $275.45 and took his general receipt, which is on file in the Clerks office of 
                        Knox County
                    . [Mr. Badollet states that this was in a Check on the 
                        Vincennes
                     Bank; but that then, and until the 15th Augt. 1820 when he drew good money, the Bank
                    paid specie for its Notes—and it appears by John D. Hays19 statement
                    that the Bank did not stop payment until sometime in Jany. 1821.1 By Mr. Scott's own A/c.
                    as furnished John Law Esqr.20 Prosecuting Attorney for 
                        Knox County
                    , and reported by him to the Cir. Co. on the 15th Sept. 
                  
                     18 On this and pages 337, 340, 341, the various acts of the Indiana
                            General Assembly which affected the administration, operation, and financing of the 
                                Vincennes
                             University and related institutions are identified by numbers indicating the
                            order in which the laws became effective. For the convenience of the reader, these acts are
                            listed here in one table which gives the number assigned to each act in Johnston's
                            report, the exact title of the act, the date it was approved, and where the act may be
                                found.
                        No. 1: An Act respecting public Seminaries … Approved January 26, 1818.
                                    Indiana, Laws(1817-1818), 355-357.
                        No. 2: An Act, to amend the act respecting Public Seminaries …Approved
                                    December 31, 1818. Ibid. (1818-1819), 67-68.
                        No. 3: An Act to amend the act respecting public Seminaries …Approved
                                    January 2, 1822. Ibid. (1821-1822), 124.
                        No. 4: An Act establishing a County Seminary in the county of 
                                        Knox
                                    . Approved January 2, 1824. Indiana, Special Acts
                                    (1823-1824),107-108.
                        No. 5: An Act relating to County Seminaries. Approved January 31, 1824. Indiana,
                                        Revised Laws(1823-1824), 116-120.
                        No.6: An Act, supplemental to "an act establishing a County Seminary in
                                    the county of 
                                        Knox
                                    . "Approved February 12, 1825. Indiana, Laws
                                    (1825), 96.
                        No. 7: An act to provide for the government of the Seminary of 
                                        Knox county
                                    .
                      Approved January 24, 1828. Ibid. (1827-1828), 121-123.
                  
                     19 See Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LIV
                            (December, 1958), 345n., and LVII (December, 1961), 323. Brackets are in original.
                  
                     20 See ibid., LVII (December, 1961), 362.
               
                     1825, he (said Scott) acknowledges the additional sum of
                    $14. as received of B. V. Beckes21 sheriff of K. C. on the 29th Sept.
                    1819, (thus making $189.45.22) And by the same A/c. and report in May
                    1821, the sum of $13, seems to have been received by Mr. Scott from Frederick Graeter
                    Esqr. J. P. K. C.—and of John Decker shff. of K. C. $23.81 1/4 in 
                        Vincennes
                     Bank & branch paper; (thus making $36.81 1/4).
            On the 14th Sept. 1825, Mr. Harrison the then Trustee (who came into Office under Act No. 5.)
                    receipts generally to Mr. Scott, the ex-Trustee, for $326.26 in Notes of the State Bank
                    of Indiana & its Branches—Attorney Law in his second report, of the 25 Augt.
                    1826, and likewise Trustee Harrison in his report to the Board of County Commissioners, of the 5th
                    Sept. 1826, states the reception to be conditional, that is (as verbally explain'd by
                    them,) should the proper authority, who might finally act upon the affair, as
                    regarded Mr. Scott's conduct respecting the said 
                        Vincennes
                     & Branch paper, approbate the same, that in that event the reception of the
                    paper was to be considered by the parties as valid, and Mr. Scott stand discharged; otherwise not,
                    and the paper be subject to his control.
            On the 31st Decer. 1828, the present Treasurer Docr. Kuykendall; (who came into Office under Act No.
                    7) receipted to the late Treasurer Harrison, for $326 in paper of the Bank of 
                        Vincennes
                     & Branches, as having been received by him of the former Trustee Scott.
            Saml. T. Scott has departed this life. And upon the 18th Augt. 1828, Administration generally, was
                    taken upon his estate by [his widow] Margret W. Scott & [son] Alexander D. Scott.
            In order to elicit more fully, all the circumstances attending the transaction, your reporter
                    addressed to Geo. W. Ewing Esqr.23 a note of which the following is a copy:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Vincennes
                                 ,
                           
                                    May 15th 1829.
                                
                        "Geo W. Ewing, Esqr.
                        Dr. Sir,
                        Under the authority of the board of Trustees of the 
                                        Knox County
                                     seminary, I have to request your answer to the following queries, i.e.:
                        1st. At what period did Saml. T. Scott retire from the Directory of the Bank of 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , the S. B. of Indiana?
                        
                           
                              21 See ibid., LIV (December, 1958), 339,
                                        340.
                           
                              22 Actually $289.45.
                           
                              23 See Constantine, Indiana Magazine of
                                            History, LVII (December, 1961), 344.
                        
                        
                        2d. At what time did the said Bank make the first failure to pay specie for its
                                    Notes; or dishonor calls upon it?
                        3d. Did not Saml. T. Scott, some time in Sept. 1825 purchase from you 
                                        Vincennes
                                     & Branch paper for the purpose of paying over to the Trustee
                                    of the Seminary of 
                                        Knox County
                                    ? If so, what was the sum negociated between you in paper? And what was
                                    the discount made by you upon the paper?
                        Your answer at as early a period as practicable, will be thankfully acknowledged.
                        I have the pleasure to be, Your Obedt. Servt.
                        
                                    G. W. Johnston."
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            And to Majr. B. V. Beckes and John Decker Esqr. As former sheriffs of the County, Notes of the
                    following tenor vizt:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Vincennes
                                 ,
                           
                                    May 15th, 1829.
                                
                        "Sir,
                        By authority of the Board of Trustees of the 
                                        Knox County
                                     seminary, I have to request of you to inform me the time, that is Month
                                    and year, if practicable, at which you as sheriff of the County, paid over 
                                        Vincennes
                                     Bank or branch paper to the Revd. S. T. Scott as Trustee for the
                                    seminary.
                        Your immediate answer will be thankfully acknowledged.
                        
                                    I am very Obedtly
                                    G. W. Johnston."
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Which were deposited on the same day, in the 
                        Vincennes
                     Post-Office. He also addressed to the Secretary of State of Indiana, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the following letter:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Vincennes
                                 ,
                           
                                    May 19th 1829.
                                
                        "James Morrison Esqr.
                        Secretary of State,
                        Dr. Sir,
                        I am directed by the Board of Trustees of the 
                                        Knox County
                                     seminary, to request of you a certified Copy of the Bond, if on file in
                                    your Office, which was, (or should have been) given by the late Revd. Saml. T. Scott
                                    as Trustee of the Seminary of 
                                        Knox County
                                     in the year 1818 or 19.
                        
                                    I have the honor to be, very Obedtly.
                                    G. W. Johnston. Secry. B. T. K. C. Semy."
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            And lastly, the following:
            "The Clerk of the Cir. Co. of K. C. will please to examine his office whether there be a
                    Bond on file, from the late S. T. Scott as Trustee of the Seminary of 
                        Knox County
                    —if so, what  is its date? to whom given?
                    What penalty? and who are securities?
            May 19th 1829. G. W. Johnston Secry. B. T. K. C. Semy".
            Which was partially answer'd by the following Memo. on the back, i.e.:
            "Bond dated 17 June 1819, penalty $2000.
            Danl. McClure & Saml. Thompson Securities.
            This is the only bond on file."
            Your Reporter delayed until the 21st for answer from Mr. Ewing—When he waited upon him
                    personally at his Office, and by his ready & polite assistance examined the Books of the
                    Vinc[enne]s Bank, from which it appears 1st That on the 25th Mar. 1819 Mr. Scott received a Credit
                    under the item of Cash, (see Ledger pa. 272.) of $275.45. The precise amount of Mr.
                    Badollet's check—and upon the 29th Apl. 1819 he was charged with Cash
                    $275.45. It appears 2ndly by the Minutes of the Bank Directors that the last sitting at
                    which Mr. Scott attended, was on the 16th Mar. 1820, (nearly 13 months after Mr. Badollet's
                    check!)— and the resignation of other Directors is noticed upon the
                    Minutes, yet no mention is made of Mr. Scott's withdrawing, (therefore its presumed he
                    remained a Director until the Bank failed.) And upon the 19 Decr. 1820 a Motion to suspend specie
                    payments was negatived by the Directory, (which brings into full operation the statement of Mr. Hay,
                    that the Bank stopped payment in 1821.) As to the third Query put to Mr. Ewing, he verbally states,
                    that Mr. Scott never got any 
                        Vincennes
                     Bank or Branch paper from him. That any further answer he does not feel himself
                    authorised to give, having been the Attorney for Mr. Scott in his life time, and now for his Admors.
                    Mr. Scott's A/c with the Bank (see Led. pa. 506.) closes on the 28th July 1822, by a Credit
                    of Cash. And what is somewhat remarkable & giving rise to considerable suspicion is, that
                    Mr. Scott is charged on the 9th Jany. 1822, with "bills received"
                    $200.00 [Why take Notes on bills upon a broken bank?!].24
            
            No answer has yet been received to the other Notes & letter; Nor is it deem'd
                    essential, for 1st as to the Sheriff's they were not authorised by law to receive paper in
                    payment of fines; and of course Mr. Scott not justifiable in receiving it from them. 2ndly As to the
                    Bond; its presumed that Mr. Scott did not execute Duplicates, but that the Original has 
                  
                     24 Brackets are in original.
               
                     remained in the Clerk's office of the C. C. of K. C.
                    But when those answers are received, if any wise relavent, they shall be reported to the board.
            Secondly, as to the law.
            Not conceiving it necessary to go beyond the adoption of our State Constitution, for by the 4th
                    proposition in the Act of Congress, upon which our Constitution is based, the Seminary Township in 
                        Gibson County
                    , and of course the 
                        Vincennes
                     University, which grew out of and depended upon the grant by Congress of that Township
                    of land, was placed at the disposal of the state; therefore the first Act of our Legislature which
                    demands our attention, is that contained in the Rev. Code of 1818 pa. 355, (No. 1.), by the
                    provisions of which the Governor was to appoint a Trustee for the public Seminary in each County;
                    who was to enter into bond, which should be transmitted by the Clerk of the Cir. Co. to the
                    Secretary of State; and then receive all monies etc. properly appertaining to the seminary, such as
                    Fines &c., and that he should make an annual report to the Legislature, by way of List of all monies received by him.
            By the Act (No. 2) of 1819 pa. 67. It was made the duty of the Trustee to loan out the monies which
                    should come to his hands, at an Interest of 6 pr. centm. pr. an. if an opportunity could be
                    had".
            By the Act (No. 3.) of the 3d [2d] Jany. 1822 pa. 124 It was provided, (as a substitute its presumed
                    for the report required by the Act of 1818) that the Trustee should make an annual &
                    detailed state [ment] of the funds in his hands, to the Board of County Commissioners, on the 2d day
                    of their November sessions.
            In the special Acts (No. 4.) of 1824, pa. 107, the "
                        Vincennes
                     University" was re-baptised & transfer'd to the "
                        Knox County
                     Seminary", and all monies in the former Trustees hands were to be paid over to
                    the Treasurer of the board, or otherwise actually to the Trustee of the County
                    Seminary (see 4th sec of the Act (No. 5.) to regulate County seminaries, Ap[proved] 31 Jany. 1824.
                    R. C. '24 pa. 116.). In addition to this construction, the Act of 1825 pa. 96. (No. 6),
                    applies the general Act to the special case of the 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary.
            By the 2d Sec. of the Act of 1824 pa. 116 (No. 5.) a Trustee in each County was to be
                    appointed—he was to give Bond, and take on Oath—receive monies &c.
                    from his predecessor—make statements thereof to the Board of County Commissioners
                    & to the Legislature—and to loan out monies.
            
            By the 13th sec. of the same Act, a Trustee for each Township in the County might
                    be elected. And by the Act (No. 7.) of 1828 pa. 121, five Trustees should be elected in the County,
                    with power to appoint Officers, such as Treasurer & Secretary—and to demand
                    & receive all monies &c. belonging to the Seminary.
            Now Upon applying the law of the case to the above statement of facts, it follows that the estate of
                    Mr. Scott & his securities, are liable for the whole amount of the paper nominally paid
                    over by him, and now in the hands of your Treasurer; for the following reasons, i.e.:
            1st The Act of 1818, (No. 1.) made it incumbent upon him to report to the Legislature; and by the
                    terms of his bond he was bound to comply with the law—and in February 1819 he received
                    $275.45; and in September '19, $14, which he should have reported to
                    the Legislature at its December session 1819—But 2d again he should have reported to the
                    Board of County commissioners, (See Act of Jany. 1822 (No. 3.) at their November sessions, (at which
                    time the whole sum had came [sic] to his hands) this he failed to do [therefore its presumed he made
                    no report to the Legislature in 1819 or 1820.]25 as appears by the records of
                    the Commissioners; consequently his Bond became forfeited—3d The paper,
                    if ever actually received & kept by him, was so received in his own
                    wrong; For by the 3d Sec. of the 9th Art. of our Constitution [Indiana, 18161, the term money
                    is used as being the medium of which the seminary funds should be composed, arising from Fines. And
                    its believed that nothing can be considered as money but such currency as is made by law a legal
                    tender; and under the Acts of Congress nothing is such but Gold or Silver. And the Joint Resolutions
                    of the 16th Decemr. 1818 (Acts 1819 pa. 142,) and that of 22d Jany. 1820, (Acts '20, pa.
                    159,) do not help out the Trustee, or justify him in receiving 
                        Vincennes
                     bank or Branch paper; for those Resolutions have a direct application to State
                    & County Taxes, and to such objects only. 4th Mr. Badollet's Check was
                    considered by Mr. Scott as specie; for one month after its being drawn, he either
                    received Cash for it, or had it placed to his credit as cash; and about a month afterwards drew the
                    same amount from the Bank in Cash. This then was a Cash transaction, Otherwise the term Bills would
                    have been used, as was done in closing his Account. Interest should be added to the amount received,
                    by way of damages, 
                  
                     25 Brackets are in original.
               
                     provided that it can be proved that he "had an
                    Opportunity" to loan out the money and failed to embrace it.
            At all events, in strict equity, he is liable for the sum of $289.45 the amount by his own
                    shewing which came to his hands in February & September 1819, for the following reasons,
                    1st: He was bound to report as above stated, which he failed to do. 2d: He being a Director of the
                    Bank, of course cognizant of its affairs, should have Cashed Mr. Badollet's check, and the
                        paper received from Beckes, previous to the failure of the Bank in
                    1821.—and the whole transaction shews clearly that the receipt of the paper by Harrison
                    from Scott was conditionally. Interest upon the sum of $289.45 should be added from
                    December 1819, when he should have reported, to August 1826, when he settled with Mr. Harrison:
                    indeed, strictly speaking, Mr. Scott should be liable for Interest until the sum is paid in good
                    money; for it is a matter of public notoriety that said Bank paper is now entirely worthless.
            Your reporter therefore, would recommend the adoption of the following resolutions, i.e.:
            "Resolved, that the above report now made by G. W. Johnston, be concurred in and recorded.
                    And that our Secretary take immediate steps to obtain, at the expense of this institution, a
                    certified Copy of Saml. T. Scott's bond as Trustee of the seminary of K. C."
            "Resolved, that so soon as he obtains said copy, he proceed in conjunction with the
                    Prosecuting Atto. of 
                        Knox County
                    , to the collection from the estate of the said Scott or his Securities, a remuneration
                    to this institution for the loss occasioned by said Scott's neglect of duty. And that he
                    furnish said Attorney with a copy of this resolution".
            All which is respectfully submitted.
            June 1st 1829." G. W. Johnston."
            Which report and resolutions being read and duly considered, were concurred in and unanimously
                    adopted by the board.
            Ordered, that Genl. W. Johnston be & he is hereby allowed the sum of Five dollars
                    & fifty cents, for his services in the above enquiry and report; to be paid him out of
                    any money in the Treasury.
            Ordered, that the secretary notify Chs. McClure Admor. of Danl. McClure decd. and Saml.
                    Thompson—Also, the Admors. of Saml. T. Scott decd. of the decission of this board  upon the subject of the $326.26 nominally paid over
                    by Mr. Scott as Trustee of the seminary of 
                        Knox County
                    , to his successor J. C. S. Harrison.
            Ordered, that the board do now adjourn until the first Monday in August next, at 9 O'C. A.M.
            And then the board adjourn'd accordingly.
            D. S. Bonner Presd.
            Monday, August 3d 1829
            The Board met according to adjournment, Present: David S. Bonner, President, Hiram Decker, John C.
                    Holland, And. Armstrong, And. Burnsides, Trustees.
            The Minutes of the last meeting were then read and signed by the chairman.
            The Secretary laid before the board & read, a letter received by him from the Secretary of
                    state, upon the subject of Mr. Scott's bond. Ordered to be filed.
            Mr. Holland laid before the board two letters addressed to John D. Hay Esqr., one of them from O. S.
                    [L.?] Hinkley and the other from Isaac Blackford Esqr. upon the subject of teaching in the seminary.
                    On Motion, the same were laid over for further consideration.
            On Motion, Ordered that our Treasurer make a report to the board of Justices, agreeably to the 3d
                    section of the [1828] Act to provide for the government of the seminary of 
                        Knox County
                    .
            On Motion, Resolved, that in case of an amicable arrangement between the Attorneys of the board and
                    the Admors. of the Revd. Saml. T. Scott decd. that the said Attos. be and they are hereby authorised
                    to receive the principal sum or amount without the addition of Interest.
            The board then adjourned 'till the 1st Monday of September ensuing, 10 O'C. A.M.
            D. S. Bonner Presd.
            1st Monday, September 7th 1829.
            The Board met according to adjournment Present: David S. Bonner, President, John C. Holland, And.
                    Armstrong, And. Burnsides, Trustees.
            The Minutes of the last meeting were then read, and signed by the President.
            
            John Ewing Esqr.26 appeared before the board as the Atto. in fact for Claudius G.
                    Brown, and presented his claim, by way of written memorial, against the seminary.27 After full investigation of the whole subject, the board do consider and hereby order, that
                    the Account as audited by James B. McCall Commissioner, on the 12th March 1824 to wit the sum of
                    Three hundred & fifty dollars with the exception of the 2nd item, to
                    wit for Costs etc. 40$, be and the same is now hereby audited & allowed and
                    considered as a valid & just claim against the late 
                        Vincennes
                     University, and that the same be paid accordingly, with legal Interest from the above
                    period.
            Ordered, that the board do now adjourn to meet on the 1st Mond. of October next, at 10 O'C.
                    A.M.
            D. S. Bonner Presd.
            1st Monday, October 5th 1829.
            A sufficient Number of Members not attending to form a quorum, the Board to meet on the 1st Monday of
                    November at 10 O'C. A.M.
            G. W. Johnston Secry.
            1st Monday, November 2d 1829.
            The Board met, when present: David S. Bonner, President, Andrew Armstrong, John C. Holland,
                    & Hiram Decker, Trustees.
            The Minutes of the last sittings were then read, and signed by the President.
            On Motion, The Members of the board signed a Memorial and petition to the Legislature, upon the
                    subject of Docr. 
                        Brown
                    's claim against this institution. And upon further Motion, Ordered that Docr.
                    Decker wait upon the board of Justices now in session, and obtain, if practicable, its sanction
                        
                  
                     26 A native of 
                                Ireland
                            , John Ewing migrated to 
                                Vincennes
                             in 1813. He served as judge of the 
                                Knox County
                             circuit court (1816-1820), in the Indiana Senate (1825-1833 and 1842-1844), and
                            as a Whig member of Congress (1833-1835 and 1837-1839). In 1829 he was a "general
                            agent and commission merchant" in 
                                Vincennes
                            . Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1774-1969 (
                                Washington
                            , 1950), 1142; Gazette, August 25, 1832.
                  
                     27 The board of trustees, at its meeting of April 24, 1824, had not
                            "considered themselves bound" to pay 
                                Brown
                            's claim, but the act of the Indiana General Assembly approved on
                            February 12, 1825, which provided for a single trustee for 
                                Knox County
                             Seminary, specifically mandated that trustee to pay 
                                Brown
                             "the amount justly due" him. Apparently the
                            trustee—Harrison—failed to do so, however, since the matter was still
                            pending at the time of this 1829 board meeting. Constantine, Indiana Magazine
                                of History, LVII (December, 1961), 367; Indiana, Laws (1826),
                        96.
               
                     to the said Petition; after which our President do transmit the
                    same to the Speaker of the House of Representatives.28
            
            Ordered, that the board do now adjourn, to meet here again, on the 1st Monday of February ensuing.
            D. S. Bonner Presd.
            Monday 5th July 1830
            The Board met, present: David S. Bonner, President, Andrew Burnsides, Andrew Armstrong, John C.
                    Holland, Hiram Decker, Trustees.
            The Minutes of the last sittings were then read, & signed by the President.
            
               
                  Doer. J. Kuykendall Treasurer stated to the Board that there was now in his hands
                  .$62.00
               
               
                  And in Ho. Johnson Clerk C. C. K. C. hands,
                   
               
               
                  as his Deputy states, and ready to pay over
                  6.50
               
               
                   
                  $68.50
               
            
            Ordered, that Genl. W. Johnston be & he is hereby authorised & directed to
                    commence suit against Saml. T. Scott's estate upon his Bond, by September Court.
            Ordered, that Genl. W. Johnston, our Secretary, be & his [sic] hereby
                    allowed the sum of Ten dollars, eighty seven & one half cts. per account filed; to be
                    paid out of any Monies in the hands of our Treasurer.
            The Petition of John Bruner and others, praying that a room may be appropriated & set
                    apart in the Seminary, as a school room for Mr. Jno. N. Allen,29 was presented
                    & read.
            Also, that of Elias McNamee and others, for a room in the seminary, for the purpose of exhibition
                    & Thespian performance,30 was also presented & read.
            
               
                  28 The editor has been unable to locate a copy of this petition or any
                        indication that it was sent to the legislature. 
                            Brown
                        's claim was finally settled by "An Act for the Relief of Claudius
                        G. Brown" passed by the Indiana General Assembly in January, 1830, which appropriated
                        $300 "for payment in full of said 
                            Brown
                        's claim against the former 
                            Vincennes
                         University, now 
                            Knox County
                         Seminary." Indiana, Laws (1829-1830), 107.
               
                  29 Allen's notices to the "citizens of 
                            Knox county
                         and the friends of education generally" appeared regularly in the Gazette (e.g., May 21, 1831). His school offered the "various
                        branches of a liberal education" and made use of such teaching aids as "a pair
                        of first rate globes and some maps.
               
                  30 Despite the board's subsequent refusal to permit the use of
                        the seminary building by the 
                            Vincennes
                         Thespian Society, the group continued to function. The Gazette,
                        on December 12, 1834, announced that the "Corps" had "The Comedy of
                        the Rivals in rehearsal" and that it would be "presented shortly." A
                        brief discussion of earlier performances in 
                            Vincennes
                        , dating back to 1814, is in Constantine, Indiana Magazine of
                        History, LVII (December, 1961), 350n.
            
            
            Whereupon, on Motion of Docr. Decker—Ordered, that a Committee be appointed to let out the
                    several rooms in the Seminary, to such persons & upon such terms as they may deem prudent
                    and advantageous, for the purposes of education & otherwise And that said Committee
                    appropriate the sum now in the Treasury, towards repairing such parts of the building as they may
                    think proper.
            And the same was appointed, consisting of Messrs. Holland, Armstrong, & Burnsides.
            On Motion of Mr. Armstrong seconded by Mr. Burnsides, the said Order was re-considered—and
                    negatived by inserting & adopting the following in lieu therof, vizt:
            "Ordered, that Messrs. Allen & Spalding31 be accommodated
                    with rooms in the Seminary, for the purpose of schools. And that a Committee be appointed with full
                    powers to carry this resolution into effect." Which being further amended, on Mr.
                    Burnsides's motion, as follows "And that said Committee expend the funds now on
                    hands in repairing the Seminary."
            And the said Committee was appointed consisting of Messrs. Holland, Armstrong, &
                    Burnsides.
            Ordered that the board do now adjourn, subject to the call of the President—and it then
                    adjourn'd Sine die.
            D. S. Bonner Presd.
            G. W. Johnston Secry.
            Thursday, August 5th 1830.
            The Board met under a special call of the President. Present: David S. Bonner, President, Andrew
                    Armstrong, John C. Holland, Trustees.
            The Minutes of the last meeting were then read, and signed by the President.
            Ordered, that our secretary Genl. W. Johnston, be allowed & receive the sum of Two dollars
                    per day, at each meeting of the board including to-day.
            The Secretary laid before the board his letter to E. M. Huntington Pros. Atto. and his answer, upon
                    the subject of the demand against the estate of Scott—which were read and Ordered to be
                    filed.
            
               
                  31 Beginning in September, 1830, B. A. Spalding conducted a
                        "Night School … for those whose employment prevents their attendance during
                        regular hours … in the Seminary." During the "regular
                        hours" his school taught both boys and girls, but in separate departments. Western Sun,
                        May 29, 1830; Gazette, September 10, 1830.
            
            
            The board resumed the consideration of the Petition of Elias McNamee & others, presented
                    & read at the last meeting; When upon Motion of Mr. Holland.
            Resolved, that the petition of Doctor E. McNamee and others, praying that a room be set apart in the 
                        Knox County
                     seminary, for the use of the Thespian society, cannot be granted by this board; and
                    that the prayer of the petitioners be rejected.
            Resolved, that a Committee be appointed to ascertain upon what terms & length of time, a
                    loan of one hundred dollars could be had for the benefit of the Seminary. And that said Committee
                    report to the next meeting of the board.
            And the same was appointed consisting of Messrs. Armstrong & Holland.
            Resolved, that a Committee be appointed to ascertain from Docr. Kuykendall, Treasurer of the board,
                    what progress he has made in the collection of the balances due on the subscriptions for repairing
                    the Seminary. Also, whether he has reported to the Board of Magistrates, agreeably to the 3d Section
                    of the Act of 1828. And that said Committee report to this board at the next meeting.
            And the same was appointed consisting of Messrs. Holland & Decker.
            Ordered, that the board now adjourn, and meet here again on Saturday the 21st Instant.
            D. S. Bonner Presd.
            Saturday, January 22d 1831
            The Board met, present: David S. Bonner, President, John C. Holland, And. Burnsides, Trustees.
            John F. Snapp32 & Andrew Gardner Trustees elect to supply the
                    vacancies of Andrew Armstrong & Hiram Decker, appeared, produced their Certificates of
                    election, with the necessary Oaths thereon endorsed, before Martin Robinson Esqr. Justice Peace 
                        Knox County
                    , which being read, are Ordered to be filed; and they thereupon took their seats.
            The Minutes of the last meeting were then read, and signed by the President.
            
               
                  32 A son of Abraham Snapp, one of 
                            Knox County
                        's first settlers, John F. Snapp was a colonel in the First Regiment of the
                        Indiana militia and a perennial candidate for the General Assembly, in which he served as 
                            Knox County
                        's representative in the 1833 session. His obituary notice is in the Western Sun, August 22, 1835.
            
            
            Mr. Holland from the Committee heretofore appointed upon the affairs of the Seminary, made the
                    following report:
            "The Committee appointed to furnish Messrs. Allen & Spalding with suitable rooms
                    in the seminary, report, that they have had the subject refer'd to them, under
                    consideration, and in due time the aforesaid School Masters did so divide the appartments of the
                    house to suit their own convenience, and as [has?] met the approbation of the Committee. They have
                    both signed a written Article of Agreement, and deposited the same with the Chairman of the Board.
            The Committee have had the large room upstairs finished with two good coats of
                    plastering—Also have had a large & convenient (Brick) Privy house built on the
                    Lot—also the frame house on the North East side of the Lot repaired, so as to be
                    used-also have had the Roof repaired; and the Arches over the Windows on the South West end; and
                    Walls repaired, which the Committee thought most adviseable and expedient. The Committee have
                    permitted Mr. J. N. Allen to cause to have finished the large room down stairs, at his own expense,
                    under the immediate direction of the Committee, and on as cheap terms as the Committee themselves
                    could have done, which is now finished with two good coats of plastering, together with Glass and
                    sundry work, altogether now finished & in use. The Committee have hereto annexed a Bill
                    of Expenses, all of which have been applied to the Seminary in the best possible manner. All of
                    which is most respectfully sub mitted. John C. Holland, A. Burnsides, Comee.
            1830 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary
            
               
                  August
                  To John C. Holland Dr.
               
               
                  Cash expended in repairs, pr. detailed A/C. A.
                  $ 62.21 1/4
               
               
                  do. for the Brick privy Do.
                  58.92 3/4
               
               
                   
                  $121.14
               
            
            The Committee have conditioned verbally with Mr. J. N. Allen, that in case he would finish the large
                    Room on the first floor, and make it fit for use, he should receive his money back from the
                    Institution as soon as disposeable funds came in.
            Bill of expenses applied to the Seminary, under the direction of the Committee; by J. N. Allen.
            Materials & work; pr. detailed A/c. A. $95.00 N.B. The committee have dispensed
                    with the Order to Loan money. And have had the necessary repairs made as above,  by Individuals, who were willing to credit the Institution without
                    Interest.
            John C. Holland."
            Which report being read, was upon Motion of Mr. Gardner, concurred in; and the Committee discharged
                    from any further duty.
            The President laid before the Board certain letters from Messrs. Allen & Spalding in
                    regard to their arrangement about rooms in the seminary, which being read, and now marked B.
                    & C. are Ordered to be filed.
            On Motion of Mr. Gardner, Ordered, that John C. Holland be allowed the sum of One hundred
                    & twenty one dollars & fourteen Cents, as embraced in the above report; to be
                    paid him out of any monies in the Treasury, deducting therefrom the Amot. heretofore received by him
                    from the Treasurer.
            On Motion of same, Ordered, that John N. Allen be allowed the sum of Ninety five dollars, as embraced
                    in the above report, to be paid him so soon as available funds may & shall come into the
                    hands of our Treasurer.
            On Motion of Mr. Snapp, Ordered, that John Green be allowed Eight dollars, per Accot. filed; to be
                    paid him so soon as available funds may & shall come into the Treasury.
            On Motion of same, Ordered, that John Moore be allowed Twenty six dollars, thirty seven &
                    one half cents, per Accot. filed, to be paid out of any money in the Treasury not now otherwise
                    appropriated.
            On motion of same. Ordered, that J. L. Coleman be allowed Five dollars & seventy five
                    cents, per Accot. filed, to be paid out of any money in the Treasury, not now otherwise
                    appropriated.
            On motion of Mr. Holland, The Board came to the following resolution:
            "Whereas, the Seminary of 
                        Knox County
                     is intended for the purpose of Education alone; but different persons have been in the
                    habit of moving into the said building and occupying parts of the house as private dwellings, to the
                    annoyance & inconvenience of the Teachers & Schollars, and detrimental to the
                    welfare of the Institution.
            Therefore, be it Resolved, that from & after this date, there shall not be allowed any
                    family, person, or persons, to occupy any part of the house, except those who are engaged in the
                    business of teaching & the Schollars. Neither shall there be allowed any horse, Cow, or
                    Hog, or other animal whatsoever, to run at large in said Seminary Lot, or be kept  in any of the lower rooms called the Cellar, to the injury of the Lot
                    or Cellar rooms.
            And be it further Resolved, that a Committee of three members be appointed, whose duty it shall be to
                    visit the Seminary as frequently as the affairs & business of the Institution may
                    require—to hear & determine all matters of dispute. Also to preserve good
                    order generally in or about the house and preservation of the Lot; and cause such repairs
                    & improvements to be made, as they may think necessary & adviseable. And that
                    they make a correct report at the next succeeding meeting-also their opinion upon any &
                    all points detrimental or advantageous to the Institution, or the Lot & building. And the
                    said Committee were appointed, consisting of Messrs. Gardner, Snapp, & Burnsides.
            On motion of Mr. Burnsides, Ordered, that the Secretary make out a general report of the situation of
                    this Institution from the organization of the present Board up to this time; and offer the same to
                    the Treasurer for his signature—and if signed by him, then to lay the same before the
                    next meeting of the Board of Justices. But should the Treasurer refuse to sign it, that then said
                    Secretary obtain the signature of our President thereto, countersign the same, and then lay it
                    before the said Board of Justices, with a request to have the same published in one or both of the
                    papers edited in 
                        Vincennes
                    .33
            
            For which services the Secretary shall be allowed a fair compensation, by this Board.
            Ordered, that the board do now adjourn Sine die. And when it meets by call from the President, it
                    shall meet at the Office of Genl. W. Johnston.
            D. S. Bonner
            [August 30, 1831]
            At a meeting of the Board of Trustees of the 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary at the office of Martin Robinson on the 30th day of August 1831 Present: John
                    D. Hay, Saml. Smith,34 John C. Holland, Daniel Smith,35
                    & Andrew Gardner, 
                  
                     33 This report, over the name of Jacob Kuykendall and based chiefly on
                            the minutes of the board's meetings from October, 1828, to January, 1831, appeared
                            in the Western Sun, April 2, 1831. It has not been found in the incomplete files of the
                            Gazette.
                  
                     34 A native of 
                                Ireland
                            , Samuel Smith was a merchant in 
                                Vincennes
                            , served as a lieutenant in the militia in the Black Hawk War, and was elected
                            to the Indiana General Assembly as 
                                Knox County
                            's representative in 1832. Gazette, May 3, 1834.
               
                     Trustees, all of whom were Sworn into office agreeable to law
                    by Martin Robinson a Justice of the Peace for 
                        Knox County
                    .
            The Board then proceeded to the Election of a president, when upon counting the Ballots it appeared
                    that John D. Hay was duly Elected, who thereupon took his Seat.
            The Board in like manner proceeded to the Election of a Clerk and Treasurer when Martin Robinson was
                    duly Elected Clerk and Jacob Kuykendall Treasurer.
            Resolved by the board that the present Clerk Elect. call on the former Clerk for all the Books and
                    papers belonging to the Board.
            Ordered that the Board do now adjourn to meet again at the house of John D. Hay on September 2nd at 2
                    oclock P.M.
            J. D. Hay Presd.
            September 2nd 1831
            The Board met at the House of John D. Hay agreeable to adjournment present: John D. Hay, Prest.,
                    Samuel Smith, John C. Holland, Danl. Smith, and Andrew Gardner.
            On motion of John C. Holland, Ordered that, General W. Johnston be allowed Fourteen dollars thirty
                    five Cents as pr. account filed out of any monies in the Treasury not now otherwise appropriated.
            On motion of the Same Ordered that J. N. Allen be allowed Six dollars and fifty Cents as pr. account
                    filed out of any monies in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
            Ordered that John D. Hay and Daniel Smith be a committee to Call on Genl. W. Johns [t] on Counsel for
                    this Board against Saml. T. Scotts Estate for information and papers and that they report to the
                    next meeting of this board.
            On motion Resolved that John C. Holland, Andrew Gardner, and Saml. Smith be appointed a committee, to
                    take into their Special Charge the Care of the Seminary fence and grounds and also to have a new
                    Roof put upon the house as soon as possible on such Terms as they may think proper to contract for
                    the same.
            On Motion Resolved That the Clerk of this Board request the Treasurer to make as thorough an
                    investigation as he can into the monied concerns of this institution, by ascertaining what sums are
                    due from the Clerks office of the Knox Circuit Court, and on the different Dockets of Magistrates in
                    the  County, and report to this board as soon as Convenient, and
                    also make a detailed report of monies received by him and paid out since last report, and have said
                    report in the hands of the Clerk, for the use of the board at their next meeting.
            On motion Ordered this meeting do now adjourn Sine die to meet at the Call of the President.
            J. D. Hay Presdt.
            June 21. 1832
            The Board [met] at the Call of the president, Present: John D. Hay, President, Saml. Smith, Andrew
                    Gardner, John C. Holland, Trustees.
            On motion of Samuel Smith Resolved that Jacob Kuykendall Treasurer of the Board of Trustees of the 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary be authorized to employ Counsel at the expense of said Board to help him to
                    make a thorough investigation of the Clerks Books in relation to all monies due or payable according
                    to Law to the 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary and report the same to the president of the Board on or before the 1st of
                    August next.
            Resolved, That the president of the Board inform Mr. J. L. Ketchum that his application has been
                    considered and that he can have possession of one half of the Seminary of 
                        Knox County
                     with Such furniture as belongs to the same on the 1st day of October next for one year
                    ensuing.
            Resolved that the Clerk notify Mr. B. A. Spaulding that the possession of the Rooms he occupies in
                    the Seminary will be required in thirty days from this time June 21. 1832.
            On motion resolved that this Board do now adjourn untill the 1 day of August 1832 at the House of
                    John D. Hay.
            J. D. Hay Presdt.
            [September 22, 1832]
            At a meeting of the Board of Seminary Trustees Held at the House of John D. Hay on Saturday 22nd day
                    of September 1832 Present: John D. Hay, President, Andrew Gardner, D. Smith, J. C. Holland,
                    Trustees.
            The Chairman Laid before the Board a Letter from Mr. Ketchum of 
                        Bloomington
                     Indiana, who was at a former meeting allowed a Room in the Seminary, Stating that he
                    declined Taking Charge of the 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary Whereupon,  it is Ordered that the former
                    grant to Mr. Ketchum be Recinded.
            Mr. Crosby36 now in possession and in Successful operation in Teaching in the 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary [building] applies for the upper part of Said Seminary to have the same under
                    his control for the purpose of Education alone, the board having duly considered his application
                    have Ordered that Mr. Crosby occupy the upper Rooms in the Seminary for the purposes of Education
                    alone, and to have possession one year from the present time.
            The President Laid before the Board from R. [sic] M. Brett37 a School Teacher
                    from 
                        Washington
                     Davi[es]s County, containing an application for a Room in the 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary with Testimonials of Character, as to qualifications and abilities to teach,
                    the Board having duly considered said application, came to the following Order, that Mr. P. M. Brett
                    have permission to occupy the first Room on the Lower floor in the south end of the Building for the
                    purposes of Education alone for twelve months commencing on the first day of October next.
            Mr. Daniel Smith Laid before the board a Receipt from the committee here to fore appointed, for the
                    purpose of procuring Shingles, to put on a new Roof on the 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary amounting to One hundred & five dollars for Shingles as aforesaid,
                    whereupon it is Ordered that the Treasurer of the 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary Pay to Daniel Smith on order one hundred and five dollars bearing Interest at
                    Seven pr. Cent pr. annum from the 31 day of August 1832 untill paid out of any monies in the
                    Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
            
               
                  35 Daniel Smith was a prominent 
                            Knox County
                         farmer, whose produce was regularly advertised in the Western Sun
                        and the Gazette.
               
               
                  36 Samuel Crosby and his wife conducted the "
                            Vincennes
                         Practical Institute" for "pupils of either sex, or any
                        age." Their advertisements (see, e.g., Western Sun, December 16,
                        1837) stated that "boarding [was] provided if desired," that pupils were
                        "taught as their circumstances require," and that tuition fees were
                        "$15 per year of:, our quarters, $5 per quarter of 12 weeks; and
                        extra charge for wood. In addition to reading, writing, and arithmetic, the Practical Institute
                        tauqht "book keeping … by the double entry method," drawing and
                        painting, and "map delineation," among other subjects. Crosby was a leader in 
                            Vincennes
                        ' "Free School" movement in the late 1830's and
                        he rented one of the rooms in his home to the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company in 1840-1841.
               
                  37 Patrick M. Brett was a native of 
                            Ireland
                         who had migrated to 
                            South Carolina
                         in 1820 and to 
                            Daviess County
                         about 1830. A "lawyer and teacher and a very prominent man in this [
                            Daviess
                        ] county, Brett served in the Indiana General Assembly as representative from
                        Daviess and Martin counties (1834) and was county auditor at the time of his death in 1844. Western Sun, April 11, 1835; October 12, 1844.
            
            
            Ordered that the account of Jno. N. Allen passed by the Superintending Committee dated 20th Sept.
                    1831 and Transferred by said Allen to Danl. Smith for two shares in the Globes and sundry furniture
                    amounting to Eighteen dollars and fifty Cents be allowed and that the Treasurer pay the same out of
                    any monies in the Treasurer [sic] not otherwise appropriated.
            Resolved that it be the duty of this board to visit the Seminary once in each month at such time as
                    their convenience will permit, and as the share holders of the Artificial Globes have requested the
                    Board to take Charge of them they have agreed to do so from this time.
            Ordered that Joseph Roseman be allowed two dollars & Seventy five Cents as pr. account
                    filed and that the Treasurer pay the same out of any monies in the Treasury not otherwise
                    appropriated.
            J. D. Hay Presdt.
            [February 6, 1833]
            At a meeting of the Board of Seminary Trustees held at the office of Martin Robinson Feb. 6. 1833
                    Present: John D. Hay, president, Andrew Gardner, John C. Holland, Trustees.
            On motion, Ordered that B. A. Spalding be allowed Ten dollars as pr. account filed for shingles, to
                    be paid out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
            On motion Ordered that Joseph Roseman be allowed four dollars and fifty Cents as pr. account filed to
                    be paid out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
            On motion, Ordered that Go. W. Caruthers38 be allowed Three dollars as pr.
                    account filed to be paid out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
            On motion, Ordered that Nicholas Smith be allowed forty five dollars as pr. account filed out of any
                    money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
            On Motion ordered that Thomas Bishop be allowed seventy five dollars in part [payment?] of work done
                    on Seminary out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
            The Board then adjourned.
            J. D. Hay Presdt.
            
               
                  38 Caruthers conducted a school "in all the elementary
                        branches" in part of the seminary building during the fall and winter of 1831-1832. He
                        regularly announced in the Gazette (e.g., October 15, 1831) that he
                        "would yet receive a few additional students."
            
            
            Friday August 30th 1833
            The Board met by order of the President at the office of Martin Robinson Present: John D. Hay,
                    President, Andrew Gardner, Daniel Smith, John C. Holland, Saml. Smith Jr., Trustees.
            Ordered that Samuel Judah39 be allowed Two dollars and fifty [cents] as pr.
                    account filed to be paid out of any monies in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
            Ordered that Jeremiah L. Colman be allowed the sum of Seven dollars thirty Cents as pr. account filed
                    to be paid out of any monies in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
            Ordered that Martin Robinson be allowed the sum of Six dollars for Services rendered as Clerk to this
                    Board and as pr. account filed to be paid out of any money in the Treasury not other wise
                    appropriated.
            Ordered that Nicholas Smith be allowed the sum of Two dollars and Twenty five Cents to be paid out of
                    any monies in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated as pr. account on file.
            Ordered that Smith & Carson be allowed twenty one dollars and seventeen Cents as pr.
                    account filed to be paid out of any monies in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
            On motion of Saml. Smith Jr. Resolved that Mr. Crosby be continued in the occupancy of the Rooms in
                    the Seminary heretofore granted, untill otherwise ordered by the Board.
            On motion of the same, Resolved that Daniel Smith be allowed Interest on an order for Eighteen
                    Dollars and fifty Cents from the 5th day of January 1833 at the rate of Seven pr. Cent, and that the
                    Secretary of the Board endorse said Resolution on the back of said order.
            Ordered that the board do now adjourn, and did then adjourn accordingly.
            J. D. Hay Presdt.
            Saturday August 31 1833
            The Board met at the Call of the president Present: John D. Hay, president, Andrew Gardner, John C.
                    Holland, Trustees.
            The minutes of the proceedings of the previous meeting being read were signed by the president.
            Ordered that Joseph Roseman be allowed the sum of seventeen Dollars Twenty five Cents as pr. account
                    filed to 
                  
                     39 See Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History,
                            LVII (December, 1961), 36611.
               
                     be paid out of any monies in the Treasury not otherwise
                    appropriated.
            The meeting then adjourned.
            J. D. Hay Presdt.
            Thursday October 3rd 1833
            The Board met at the office of Martin Robinson at the Call of the President Present: John D. Hay,
                    President, Andrew Gardner, John C. Holland.
            The minutes of the preceeding meeting having been read and signed by the president. The Board then
                    proceeded to the Election of a Treasurer to supply the Vacancy occassioned by the death of Doct.
                    Jacob Kuykendall, when on counting the Ballots Albert Baddollet40 was declared
                    duly Elected.
            the meeting then adjourned.
            J. D. Hay Presdt.
            Saturday June 1. 183541
            
            The Board met at the office of Martin Robinson at the Call of the President Present: John D. Hay,
                    president, Andrew Gardner, John C. Holland, & Daniel Smith.
            The minutes of the preceeding meeting having been read and signed.
            It was on motion Ordered that Thomas Bishop be allowed the sum of seventy five Dollars being a
                    balance in full for repairing and shingling the Seminary, and that the Treasurer pay the same out of
                    any moneys coming into his hands, after paying orders heretofore passed and Issued to Daniel Smith.
            The meeting then adjourned.
            J. D. Hay Presdt.
            
               
                  40 Albert Badollet was a son of John Badollet, who was a member of the
                        university board from its creation in 1806 until 1821. Albert was 
                            Knox County
                         treasurer in 1829 (see above, p. 00); he succeeded his father as register of the 
                            Vincennes
                         land office in 1836. Western Sun, February 6, 1836.
               
                  41 There is some evidence that during the nearly two-year lapse of time
                        since the last board meeting a school continued to be held in the seminary building; no
                        information has been found that indicates whether or not the board of trustees sponsored the
                        school. Both the Western Sun and the Gazette carried
                        advertisements on October 5, 1833, announcing that the Reverend Henry Moore Shaw, onetime
                        "President of 
                            Vincennes
                         University," would "recommence his School in the rooms [in the
                        seminary building] recently occupied by G. W. Carruthers." Shaw's school
                        offered spelling, reading, and writing for $4.00 per quarter and, "if the
                        class is large enough," Latin and Greek would be provided for $7.00 per
                        quarter.
            
            
            February 27th 1836
            The Board met at the Call of the President Present: John D. Hay, President, David S. Bonner,
                    & Thomas Scott.42 all of whom were sworn into office by Martin
                    Robinson Justice of the peace of 
                        Knox county
                    .
            The Board then proceeded to the Election of a President when David S. Bonner was duly Elected.
            The Board in like manner proceeded to the Election of a Clerk when Martin Robinson was declared duly
                    Elected.
            The Board in like manner proceeded to the Election of a Treasurer when Minard S. Smith was declared
                    duly Elected.
            On Motion Resolved, that the Treasurer after paying the Existing debts against the 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary pay over to the order of Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Academy*3 all sums of money that may have accrued or may hereafter accrue in his hands
                    to defray all expences that may from time to time accrue under the direction of the Trustees of said
                    Academy for the repairs of said Seminary and lot.
            On Motion Resolved that the President of the Trustees of the 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary do execute under the seal of 
                  
                     42 Scott was a brigadier general in the Indian militia and a 
                                Knox County
                             farmer and landlord. A Whig in politics, he was appointed receiver of public
                            moneys of the 
                                Vincennes
                             land office in 1841. Western Sun, August 3, 1832; March 19, 1836; January 16,
                            1841.
                  
                            
                        43 An act of the Indiana legislature, approved on January 23, 1836,
                                provided for the incorporation of a "
                                    Vincennes
                                 Academy" and named six men–John Scott, Joseph Somes,
                                Samuel 
                                    Wise
                                , William Burtch, John C. Clark, and Abner T. Ellis-as commissioners. This
                                same act required the trustees of the 
                                    Knox County
                                 Seminary to lease the seminary and its grounds to the commissioners of 
                                    Vincennes
                                 Academy for not less than five nor more than ten years provided the academy
                                maintained a school or had sufficient reason for having discontinued its school. After
                                paying its debts, the 
                                    Knox County
                                 Seminary was to pay its accrued funds-and any that later accrued-to 
                                    Vincennes
                                 Academy to be used for repairs and improvements and, if the seminary board
                                approved, for the educational program as well. The academy commissioners were required
                                to report annually to the seminary board and to the 
                                    Knox County
                                 commissioners. Indiana, Local Laws (1835-1836), 95-98.
                            
                        
                                    Vincennes
                                 Academy was organized as a stock company and its commissioners were
                                authorized to sell $10 shares up to a $10,000 limit. When 100
                                shares were sold, an organizational meeting was required for the election of officers
                                and a board of trustees; this meeting was held at John C. Clark's hotel on
                                February 13, 1836. The following November the school was "ready for the
                                reception of pupils … under the instruction of Mr. Reed Wilkinson and Lady
                                …" Apparently classes were held only from 1836 until 1838, but the
                                institution was not formally dissolved until October, 1839 (see below, p. 367). During
                                its brief existence 
                                    Vincennes
                                 Academy offered reading and writing for $4.00 per quarter;
                                grammar, arithmetic, and geography for $5.00; and Latin, Greek, 
                                    German
                                , and French for $6.00. A "Female Academy" was
                                conducted by Mrs. Wilkinson in the "common and higher branches of an English
                                education" and, for an added fee, in "the languages and ornamental
                                branches." Gazette, February 6, 1836; Western
                                    Sun, November 12, 1836; January 7, 1837; June 9, 1838.
                        
               
                     the Trustees of said Seminary a lease of Ten years of the 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary and Lot with the appurtanances to the 
                        Vincennes
                     Academy agreeable to the provisions contained in an act, entitled an act to incorporate
                    the 
                        Vincennes
                     Academy. On Motion Resolved that the Seal of the Trustees of the 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary be a Scrawl with the letters T. K. C. S. enclosed thus 
                  TKC.S
               
            
            Ordered that Martin Robinson be allowed the sum of four dollars as per account filed.
            The Board did then adjourn.
            D. S. Bonner Prest.
            Wednesday May 18th 1836
            The Board met at the call of the President Present: David S. Bonner, President, John D, Hay,
                    & John C. Holland.
            The Board proceeded to the Election of a Treasurer in the room of Minard S. Smith who refused to
                    accept of the appointment, when Thomas J. Carson was declared duly Elected.
            Ordered that Josiah Jones be allowed the Sum of Twelve Dollars and Twelve & 1/2 cents and
                    that the Treasurer pay the same out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
            The Board did then adjourn.
            D. S. Bonner.
            Tuesday August 23rd 1836
            The Board met at the Call of the President Present: David S. Bonner, President, John D. Hay, and John
                    C. Holland.
            The Board proceeded to the Election of a Treasurer in. the Room of Thomas J. Carson, resigned, when
                    John B. Martin44 was declared duly Elected.
            Ordered that Martin Robinson be allowed the sum of Two Dollars as Clerk to this Board as per account
                    filed.
            The Board did then adjourn.
            D. S. Bonner Prest.
            
               
                  44 John B. Martin operated a "Tayloring" business. Western Sun, 1830; Gazette, July 27, 1839.
            
            
            
                    [MINUTES OF VINCENNES UNIVERSITY BOARD OF TRUSTEES]
                    45
                
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     June 11th 1838.
            Persuent to a call published in the 
                        Vincennes
                     Gazette on Saturday last and signed by Robert N. Carnan46 and
                    George R. Gibson47 for a meeting of the Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University at the office of Judah and Gibson on this day at 10 Oclock A.M. The
                    following Gentlemen appeared: Thomas Alexander,49 Hiram Decker, Joseph
                        Sornes,40 Alexis LeRoy,50
                    
                  
                     45 After a fourteen-year suspension, 
                                Vincennes
                             University's corporate life was restored on February 17, 1838, by an
                            act of the Indiana General Assembly which noted that funds for support of the university
                            would be available as a result of the sale of 500 acres in the 
                                Vincennes
                             Commons, but doubted that a legal board existed to receive those funds. The
                            act, therefore, provided for a board of trustees composed of the six surviving members of
                            the 1824 board—Isaac 
                                Blackford
                            , Nathaniel Ewing, John Law, John D. Hay, Robert Buntin, and Samuel
                            Judah— and nine new members—Thomas Alexander, Alexis LeRoy, George R.
                            Gibson, Joseph Somes, Hiram Decker, Samuel 
                                Wise
                            , Robert N. Carnan, Albert Badollet, and John B. Martin. The new board was to
                            possess the powers granted in the original 
                                Vincennes
                             University charter of 1806 with two exceptions: the board was empowered to
                            appoint "as many professors as they think proper," and was specifically
                            denied the right to claim the 
                                Gibson County
                             seminary land or any funds derived from the sale thereof. Indiana, Local Laws (1837-1838), 281-282. A manuscript copy of this law, certified by the
                            Indiana secretary of state, is in the archives of 
                                Vincennes
                             University, as is this separate minute book, which begins with the minutes of
                            the first meeting of the re-established board of trustees. At the end of the preceding
                                minute book and at the beginning and end of this book are various lists and other items,
                                including lists of the 1823 and other boards of trustees; a manuscript copy of the
                                February 17, 1838, act of the Indiana General Assembly; clippings, bylaw references, and
                                miscellaneous notes.
                        
                  
                     46 Carnan kept a general store in 
                                Vincennes
                             and served in the Indiana General Assembly (1835-1836) as 
                                Knox County
                             representative. Gazette, August 8, 1835; June 5, 1841.
                  
                     47 Gibson was a lawyer, a 
                                Knox County
                             farmer, and an officer in the county agricultural society, which he helped to
                            organize. He served as a director of the 
                                Vincennes
                             Library Company from 1838 to 1842 and was an active member of the 
                                Vincennes
                             Historical and Antiquarian Society. Western Sun, September 30, 1837; February
                            15, 1840.
                  
                     48 Thomas Alexander was the minister of the Presbyterian church in 
                                Vincennes
                            . He resigned as president of the board of trustees in April, 1839, but
                            continued to serve as a member of the board and as professor of moral philosophy in the
                            university's Grammar School. Gazette, July 18, August 1, 1840.
                  
                     49 A native of 
                                England
                            , Somes came to the 
                                United States
                             in 1826 and graduated from the medical department of Transylvania University in
                            1829. He settled in 
                                Vincennes
                             soon thereafter and began a medical practice which spanned forty years. He was
                            listed as "Professor of the Theory and Practice of Medicine" in the 
                                Vincennes
                             University medical department in 1837 and as "Professor of Chemistry
                            and Mineralogy" in the university's Grammar School in 1840. Western Sun,
                            September 23, 1837; Gazette, July 18, 1840; unpublished MS. by Judge
                            Curtis G. Shake, "The Beginnings of Medical Education in Indiana."
                  
                     50 LeRoy engaged in various businesses in 
                                Vincennes
                            , including the operation of the "Rising Sun Hotel" and the
                            "LeRoy Clock and Watch Making" shop. Gazette, November
                            5, 1831; April 28, 1832.
               
                     Samuel 
                        Wise
                    ,51 Robert N. Carnan, Samuel Judah, George R. Gibson, &
                    John D. Hay.
            On motion ordered—That Robert N. Carnan be appointed Chairman pro. tem. and that Samuel
                    Judah be appointed Secretary pro. tem. and Thereupon Mr. Carnan took the chair and the Trustees
                    proceeded to business.
            On motion of Doct. Somes. It was ordered—That the Trustees now proceed to Elect by
                    ballot-first a president and then a Secretary and that Messr. Wise and Decker act as Tellers.
            The Trustees proceeded to ballot accordingly and the Tellers reported as follows—That the
                    Rev. Mr. Alexander had received Seven votes for President—Two votes scattering and that
                    Geo. R. Gibson had received Eight votes for secretary—scattering one—whereupon
                    Mr. Alexander was declared to be duly elected President and Geo. R. Gibson Secretary and entered
                    into the discharge of the duties accordingly.
            On motion of Doct. Decker it was ordered that a Standing Committee of Three be appointed whose duty
                    it shall be to require from the Trustees of the Borough a full statement of the situation of the
                    Commons fund52 and contemplated expenditure thereof-To procure if possible the
                    old books of this board53—To prepare and report all necessary By Laws
                    and to act generally as a finance Committee—Whereupon the President appointed Messr.
                    Judah, Carnan, and LeRoy to act as said committee.
            On motion of Mr. Judah—Ordered—That the stated meetings of the board shall be
                    held on the 1st Mondays of each month at 9 oclock A.M. at the Secretarys office until further
                    ordered.
            
               
                  51 Samuel Wise was a partner in the general store, "S. and W. J. 
                            Wise
                        ," and a director of the 
                            Vincennes
                         branch of the State Bank of Indiana. Gazette, November 15, 1834; August 8, 1835.
               
                  52 In an act dated March 3, 1791, Congress granted to the inhabitants of 
                            Vincennes
                         "a tract of land containing about five thousand four hundred acres
                        … to be used by them as a Common until otherwise disposed of by law." The
                        expansion of the town following the War of 1812 created a demand for the "common
                        land" and Congress responded in 1818 with an act which authorized the trustees of the
                        town of 
                            Vincennes
                         to sell the land in five to fifty acre lots and to use the proceeds for pond
                        drainage and to pay over "the residue of the money arising from the said sale, if any
                        …" to the trustees of 
                            Vincennes
                         University to be "applied to the benefit of the said university."
                        During the 1830's advertisements in the local papers frequently announced
                        "Great Bargains! The 
                            Vincennes
                         Commons For Sale." Clarence Edwin Carter (ed.), The
                            Territorial Papers of the 
                                United States
                            
                  , Vol. 11, The Territory Northwest of the River 
                                Ohio
                            , 1787-1803 (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1934), 341; U.S., Annals of Congress, 15th Cong., 1st Sess., 1817-1818, 11,
                        2592; Western Sun, April 28, 1832; September 21, 1839.
               
                  53 See note 13 above, p. 330.
            
            
            On motion of Mr. Carnan Ordered—That This meeting do now adjourn.
            T. Alexander Prest.
            Geo. R. Gibson Secy.
            July 2d A. D. 1838.
            At a meeting of the Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University at the office of Geo. R. Gibson on Monday the 2d day of July 1838. The
                    following members were in attendence: Thos. Alexander, President, Geo. R. Gibson, Secy., Jno. D.
                    Hay, Joseph Somes, Robt. N. Carnan, Alexis LeRoy, Jno. B. Martin, & Saml. 
                        Wise
                    , Trustees absent all others.
            A communication from the "Medical Society"54 was read by the
                    Secretary—where upon on Motion of Mr. LeRoy—it
                    was—"Resolved—That the communication from the Medical Society be
                    received & referred to a select committee of Three— with instructions to
                    report thereon as soon as possible."
            There upon the President appointed Capt. Martin, John D. Hay, and Geo. R. Gibson—said
                    Committee to make report in persuence of said resolution.
            On motion of Doct. Somes Ordered—That this meeting now adjourn.
            T. Alexander Prest.
            Geo. R. Gibson Sec'y.
            August 6th 1838.
            At a meeting of the Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University at the office of Messrs. Judah & Gibson on Monday the 6th day of
                    August A. D. 1838. The following members were in attendence: Thomas Alexander, Prest., Geo. R.
                    Gibson, Sec'y., H. Decker, Jno. D. Hay, Saml. Judah, Josph. Somes, Saml. 
                        Wise
                    , A. Badolett, A. LeRoy absent all others.
            The committee appointed at the July meeting not being prepared to report on the Communication from
                    the "Medical Society."
            
               
                  54 The 
                            Knox County
                         Medical Society was founded in 1818 "to sustain the dignity of the
                        Profession, and to protect the interests of the community," and its meetings were
                        regularly announced in the local papers. A record book of the organization, which contains its
                        constitution, bylaws, schedule of fees, an ethical practices statement, and the minutes of its
                        meetings from 1828 to 1836 is in the Indiana Historical Society Library 
                            Indianapolis
                        . The communication mentioned here, which is preserved in the 
                            Vincennes
                         University archives, was a request by the medical society that the university board
                        of trustees take over the administration of the Medical College of 
                            Vincennes
                        .
            
            
            On motion of Samuel Judah it was Resolved—That this Board adjourn over to Saturday
                    next—to which time said Committee have leave to make their Report.
            whereupon the meeting adjourned to s'day.
            T. Alexander Pres.
            Geo. R. Gibson Sec'y.
            September 3d, 1838
            At a meeting of the Trustees of the University at the office of Messr. Judah & Gibson on
                    Monday the 3d day of Septr. A. D. 1838 the following members were in attendence: Thos. Alexander,
                    Prest., Geo. R. Gibson, Secy., Jno. D. Hay, Saml. Judah, Josph. Sommes, Saml. 
                        Wise
                    , A. Badolett, A. LeRoy, Jno. B. Martin, Robt. N. Carnan, H. Decker absent all others.
            The Committee to make Report on the Communication from the Medical Board
                    [Society?]—Reported as follows:
            That should the University claim at this time the right of appointing Professors in the Medical
                    College there is some danger of a conflict with the Trustees of the Seminary and Academy who claim
                    the right of useing & occupying the building.55
            
            On the other side should the Seminary or Academy instead of the University make the appointments then
                    they must do so without authority; and the professors would not be acting under the University
                    Charter which alone authorises the appointment of such Professors—as it is of importence
                    to the Town & Country, that the Professors of Medicine should have ample powers
                    & authority to carry on the same and to confer Degrees if deemed by them necessary, The
                    Committee Think it most advisable that the University should make the appointments and confer upon
                    the Professors all the Powers necessary to establish a well regulated Medical College.
            
               
                  55 The act which revived the board of 
                            Vincennes
                         University apparently did not extinguish or alter the status of the boards of the 
                            Knox County
                         Seminary and the 
                            Vincennes
                         Academy. The seminary board continued to operate, at least to the degree that it
                        ran occasional notices in the local papers (e.g., Gazette, December 23, 1843)
                        warning "… Justices of the Peace, Clerks, Sheriffs, or any other officer who
                        has money belonging to the county seminary … to fork it over.
                        …" There was no clearly defined relationship between and among the three
                        boards, but there was a degree of interlocking memberships. For example, eight or nine of the
                        men who served as commissioners of 
                            Vincennes
                         Academy were at one time or another members of the seminary or university board of
                        trustees.
            
            
            The Committee however would at the same time recommend that some understanding be had with the
                    Seminary & Academy Trustees upon this subject for which purpose perhaps a Committee had
                    better be appointed to consult with them & effect by agreement, that which otherwise
                    might operate to the injury of all the schools.
            The Committee also deem it expedient that the Professors be appointed as soon as some understanding
                    can be had with the Seminary & Academy Trustees as above recommended.
            J. B. Martin, J. D. Hay, Geo. R. Gibson, Comm.
            The above Report was read, considered, & accepted & on Motion of Mr. Judah it
                    was Resolved—That Messr. Hay, Martin, & Gibson the committee heretofore
                    appointed, confer with the Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Academy & if necessary with the Trustees of the 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary; and ascertain what portion of the University building is necessary for the
                    use of the academy and what portion may be used for a Medical School, and Report at the next ensuing
                    meeting of this Board.56
            
            
               
                  56 In January, 1835, the Indiana General Assembly passed an "act
                        to incorporate the 
                            Vincennes
                         Medical Society for the promotion and diffusion of correct medical
                        knowledge," including the power to "hold such buildings as may be required for
                        their immediate personal accommodation as a society, lecturing and dissecting rooms and other
                        appurtenances necessary or convenient for the promotion of medical knowledge…
                        ." Indiana, Local Laws (1834-1835), 77-79. The records of the medical
                        society, which terminate in 1836, do not mention the founding of a medical school, but it is
                        probable that the legal basis of the school was the authority granted to the medical society in
                        1835. In any case, the Western Sun, September 23, 1837, carried the
                        advertisement that the "
                            Vincennes
                         University Medical Department" (even though the act restoring 
                            Vincennes
                         University was not passed until the following year) would begin its "first
                        course" in December, 1837, and conclude it in March, 1838; the price of
                        "tickets" to the lectures was $80. The editor of the Western Sun noted on December 9, 1837, that "the lectures [have] commenced
                        … and have been well attended." The medical department's
                            advertisements described the "large and commodious university building …
                            the healthy town," its excellent location "on the confines of two
                            states," and the library of the 
                                Vincennes
                             Library Company "attached to the Institution, to which students will
                            have access gratis." The department could "confer the degree Licentiate of
                            Medicine" and its faculty included professors of special anatomy (Dr. Thornton F.
                            Offutt), general and pathological anatomy (Dr. Joseph Maddox), surgery (Dr. J. W. Johnston),
                            obstetrics and diseases of women and children (Dr. Willis W. Hitt), chemistry and natural
                            philosophy (Dr. Benoit Troost), materia medica and pharmacy (Dr. Hiram Decker), theory and
                            practice of medicine (Dr. Joseph Somes), and physiology and institutes of medicine (Dr.
                            Daniel Stahl). All the members of the faculty were practicing medicine in 
                                Vincennes
                             at the time. Western Sun and Gazette, September 30, 1837.
                        The university board of trustees showed some interest in taking over the administration of
                            the medical department, but apparently never resolved the legal problems involved in such a
                            policy; no mention of the department has been found in either the minutes of the board or in
                            the 
                                Vincennes
                             newspapers after January, 1839.
                    
            
            
            On Motion of Mr. Carnan Resolved—That the Secretary inform Messr. Ewing, Buntin,
                    & Law. That unless they attend the meetings of this Board, their seats as Trustees will
                    be vacated, under the Charter and others appointed in their place.
            on motion the Board adjourned.
            T. Alexander Prest.
            Geo. R. Gibson Sec'y.
            January 8th 1839.
            At a called meeting of the Trustees of the University, at the office of Messr. Judah &
                    Gibson on Tuesday the 8th day of Jany. 1839 The following members were in attendence: Thos.
                    Alexander, Prest., Geo. R. Gibson, Secy., A. LeRoy, R. N. Carnan, Josph. Somes, J. B. Martin, H.
                    Decker, J. D. Hay—absent all others.
            On Motion—It was Resolved—That the seats of Messr. N. Ewing, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , and Robert Buntin Jr. be vacated-in accordence with the resolution of the Last
                    meeting-and Thereupon—Samuel Hill57 was appointed By the Board to
                    fill the seat of Mr. Ewing, William Burtch58 that of I. Blackford, and Jacob
                        Harper59 that of R. Buntin.
            On motion of Mr. Somes—Resolved—That the Secretary inform these Gentlemen of
                    their appointment.
            On motion—Resolved—That the Committee appointed at the Last meeting to confer
                    with the Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Academy and 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary have to the next regular meeting of this Board to make Report, and that they
                    be authorised to confer with the Committee appointed By the Trustees of the academy.
            On motion of Mr. Martin—Resolved—That the Stated meetings of this Board
                    hereafter shall be held on the First Tuesday in each month at 7. oclock P.M. at the Secretarys 
                  
                     57 Hill was at various times a merchant, a notary public, a 
                                Knox County
                             justice of the peace, and co-editor of the 
                                Vincennes
                             Gazette. He was elected president of the university's board of
                            trustees in April, 1839.
                  
                     58 William Burtch was engaged in a wide variety of mercantile
                            enterprises under the company names of "Burtch & Heberd,"
                            "Burtch & Hannah," and "Burtch &
                            Co." He was a director of the 
                                Vincennes
                             branch of the State Bank of Indiana (1834) and a member of the board of
                            commissioners of the 
                                Vincennes
                             Academy. Gazette, November 15, 1834; July 27, 1839.
                  
                     59 Jacob Harper and Samuel Judah were partners in an auction and
                            "Public Sale" business, specializing in the disposal of farm inventories.
                                Western Sun, December 2, 1837; Gazette, December 22, 1838.
               
                     office—except in the months of April and October
                    when they shall be on the First Monday.
            On motion the Board adjourned.
            T. Alexander
            Geo. R. Gibson Sec'y.
            March 5th 1839.
            At a monthly meeting of the Trustees of the University at the office of Mesrs. Judah &
                    Gibson on the 5th day of March 1839. The following members were in attendence: Thomas Alexander,
                    Prest., Geo. R. Gibson, Sec'y., Jno. Law, J. B. Martin, Joseph Somes, A. LeRoy, S. Judah,
                    Jacob Harper, J. D. Hay. absent all others.
            Mr. Law presented a Communication from the Rev. Simon Gabriel Bruthao and on motion of Mr. Law it was
                    laid on the Table.
            On motion of Mr. Law—Resolved further That a Committee of three be appointed to report to
                    the next regular meeting of this Board-The Debts chargeable to the University—and also
                    whether this Board has authority to Lease the University Lot and Building, or to dispose of the same
                    in any way.—The President appointed Mers. Law, Somes, and Martin said Committee.
            On motion of Doct. Somes the Board adjourned.
            T. Alexander Prest.
            Geo. R. Gibson Sec'y.
            April 1st 1839.
            At a meeting of the Trustees of the University of 
                        Vincennes
                     at the office of Mesr. Judah & Gibson on Monday the 1st of April 1839. There
                    was present: Rev. T. Alexander, Prest., Geo. R. Gibson, Sec'y., J. D. Hay, Jacob Harper, J.
                    B. Martin, Saml. Hill, Joseph Somes, A. LeRoy—absent all others.
            On Motion of Samuel Hill Esq. Ordered—That the Secretary be directed to have the Deed from 
                        Vanderburgh
                     & wife 
                  
                     60 Simon Gabriel Brutè was bishop of the Catholic diocese
                            of 
                                Vincennes
                            . In the letter to the board, dated February 27, 1839, and preserved in the 
                                Vincennes
                             University archives, Brutè requested a lease of the university
                            building "for a period of 30 or 40 years" during which the diocese would
                            be responsible "for all further repairs, fittings, and Expenses.
               
                     to the Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University, Recorded, the record of it having been Burnt.61
            
            Mr. Hay presented Four petitions from the citizens of 
                        Knox County
                     concerning the sale or Lease of the University Building and Lot,62
                    which on motion of Mr. Hay were ordered to be laid upon the Table.
            The Committee of Three appointed at the last meeting to make Report concerning the debts of the
                    University, and the right of the Trustees to sell or Lease the same, not being sufficiently
                    prepared, to make said Report leave is given them to make the same to the next meeting of this
                    Board.
            On Motion of Doct. Somes—Resolved—That a special meeting of this Board be held
                    on next Friday week—to which time this Board do now adjourn.
            T. Alexander Prest.
            Geo. R. Gibson Sec'y.
            April 12th 1839.
            At an adjourned meeting of the Trustees of the University at the office of Messrs. Judah &
                    Gibson, There were present: Revd. T. Alexander, Prest., G. R. Gibson, Secy., J. D. Hay, S. Hill, J.
                    B. Martin, H. Decker, A. LeRoy, J. Somes, S. 
                        Wise
                    , R. N. Carnan, & J. Harper.
            Mr. Alexander—tendered his resignation as President of the Board, which was accepted
                    &c. Thanks tendered.
            G. R. Gibson also tendered his resignation as Secty. which was also accepted, & thanks
                    tendered &c.
            Whereupon S. Hill was elected President & J. Somes elected Secretary.
            The Committee appointed at a previous meeting to report &c., asked for further leave,
                    &c.
            On Motion of J. Somes, It was Resolved, that there be appointed annually at the Meeting on the 1st
                    Monday in 
                  
                     61 See Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LIV (December, 1958),
                            332.
                  
                     62 One of these petitions is preserved in the 
                                Vincennes
                             University archives. Containing nearly 200 signatures of 
                                Knox County
                             citizens, it states the strong opposition of the signers to selling or leasing
                            the "seminary … to the Bishop of 
                                Vincennes
                            " on the ground that such action would convert the institution from a
                            public ('to a sectarian or Roman Catholic one," that the
                            "Protestant community [would] be indirectly taxed to support an institution
                            … which they have been taught to watch with a jealous eye," and that
                            "Literature and Learning [would] pine away and die" under the
                            "uncontrolled sway" of Catholicism "as in 
                        Ireland, Spain
                     , Ittaly
                            [sic] and South America." In conclusion the petition warned that "as they
                            advance in power our prosperity will depreciate" and insisted that the
                            "compensation [was] far too small for the … loss we will
                            sustain… ."
               
                     April, three Standing Committees of three persons each
                    Committee, viz: a Committee on Finance, a Committee on Buildings, and a Committee on Instruction.
            Whereupon, The president appointed on,
            Finance—Messrs. Judah, LeRoy, & Carnan.
            Buildings—Harper, Martin, & Hay.
            Instruction—Alexander, Law, & Decker.
            On Motion, the Board adjourned.
            Samuel Hill Pres.
            J. Somes Secy.
            October 5th 1839.
            At a called Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University held at the office of S. Hill, Esqr. on 5th October 1839. Present: Messrs.
                    Law, Martin, Somes, Hill, Decker, Hay, 
                        Wise
                    , LeRoy, Harper, Carnan, and Revd. Thos. Alexander.
            The Meeting being called to order by the President of the Board, S. Hill, Esqr.—Mr.
                        Ellis63 appeared before the Board as a delegate from the Board of Trustees
                    of 
                        Vincennes
                     Academy & made a report from the same board relinquishing all claim to the
                    University Lot & Building & recommending the University Board of Trustees to
                    adopt some plan for liquidating the debts against said building & preventing further
                    dilapidation &c.
            Whereupon it was moved by Judge Law that the report from the 
                        Vincennes
                     Academy Board be received & that their delegate have a seat in the board and
                    partake in their deliberations this evening, which was seconded and carried unanimously.
            Mr. Law, thereupon offered the following Report and resolution:
            Whereas a Report has been made to this Board from the Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Academy relative to the 
                        Vincennes
                     University, and whereas this Board believe that some action should be had in reference
                    to said University in order to relieve it from its present embarrassments—encumbered as
                    it now is by outstanding Debts to the amount of nearly Eighteen Hundred dollars—and the
                    building itself constantly dilapidating, and going to destruction—and whereas this Board
                    have 
                  
                     63 Abner T. Ellis was a 
                                Vincennes
                             attorney. He served as 
                                Knox County
                             probate judge from 1835 to 1838 and was a member of the board of commissioners
                            of 
                                Vincennes
                             Academy from 1836 to 1839. In 1840 he was elected to the university's
                            board of trustees. Western Sun, August 11, 1832; Gazette, May 30, 1836; Riker, Executive Proceedings, 496.
               
                     now no funds to pay said debts, much less to make further
                    repairs on the same—and whereas this Board believe that the only mode of discharging said
                    debts—and putting said building in repair is to lease the same for a term of years to be
                    agreed upon with the Lessee or Lessees, the rents and profits arising from said Lease to be applied
                    first in the discharge of the Debts due from said University—and secondly to be applied
                    in making such alterations, additions, & repairs—as will render the Building,
                    useful and fitted for the purposes for which it was designed.
            Therefore Resolved, that five persons be appointed a Committee with full powers from this Board to
                    make an agreement for a lease of said buildings for a term of years not exceeding twenty
                    years—Said agreement of lease when perfected to receive the sanction of this
                    Board—and with all the power of the Board for the purpose of making said lease hereby
                    delegated to said Committee—Said lease when agreed upon, to be signed by the President of
                    this Board under the seal of the Corporation.
            Which resolution being moved & seconded that it pass— passed unanimously.
            The President appointed said Committee of five persons— viz: Messrs. Carnan, Decker, Hay,
                    LeRoy, and Harper.64
            
            Ordered by this Board—that V.U. with a Scroll thus 
                  V. U.
                be adopted as a common seal for the 
                        Vincennes
                     University.
            The Meeting then adjourned.
            Samuel Hill President
            Joseph Somes, Secy.
            Octr. 22nd 1839.
            At a called Meeting held at the office of S. Hill on the evening of Octr, 22nd 1839, present: Messrs.
                    Hill, LeRoy, Gibson, Carnan, Martin, Decker, Burtch, Hay, Badollet, Harper, Law, Alexander,
                    & Somes.
            The meeting being called to order, minutes of last meeting read, &c.
            The resignation of G.R. Gibson was presented, acted upon, & ordered to be laid on the
                    table.
            Mr. Carnan from the Committee appointed last Meeting to lease, &c. made the following
                    report:
            
               
                  64 An advertisement over the names of this committee and incorporating the
                        resolution's instructions appeared in the Western Sun, October 19,
                        1839.
            
            
            Report of Committee
            The Undersigned a Committee of this Board appointed at its last meeting to lease the Building,
                    commonly called the 
                        Knox County
                     University, with the ground appurtenant thereto, would report, that in discharge of the
                    duty imposed on them, they advertised the same to lease in the public papers published in this Town,
                    setting forth that they would receive written proposals untill the 20th of this Month and that in
                    pursuance of said Notice the annexed proposal, Marked A. and made a part of this report, was handed
                    in by Mr. Vabret,65 and is the only one which has been received by your
                    committee. Your committee would further state that as Mr. Vabret's proposal contains a
                    proposition for the purchase of the property, and as they had no power to sell, they deemed it
                    advisable to report the same to this Board and let it decide whether it would sell or lease. Signed,
                    R. N. Carnan, A. LeRoy, Jacob Harper, & H. Decker.
            Mr. Vabret's proposal as marked A. and referred to in Report of Committee.
            The directors of the C. College of 
                        Vincennes
                    , make the following proposals to obtain the Seminary of 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            [First Proposition]
            1st. They would bind themselves to pay the debts of the Seminary provided they do not exceed the sum
                    of eighteen hundred dollars.
            2nd. For the above obligation they would require to have the use of the said Seminary for twenty
                    years and during that time to have the liberty of repairing it and adding such buildings as they may
                    deem necessary.
            3rd. At the end of these twenty years the trustees of the Seminary would pay them for the repairs and
                    additional buildings or give them the right to purchase the said Seminary by paying its actual value
                    which would require an actual estimation made by disininterested men agreeable to both parties.
            
               
                  65 Father Vabret was a Roman Catholic priest assigned to the St. Xavier
                        Cathedral in 
                            Vincennes
                        . His proposal to the board was made on behalf of the Catholic College of 
                            Vincennes
                        , which had been founded in 1837 by Bishop Brutè and was
                        "conducted by … Vabret and some other clergymen and friends… .
                            Western Sun, September 4, 1837; Sister Mary S. Godecker, Simon Brutè de Remur (St. Meinrad, Ind., 1931), 415.
            
            
            Second Proposition.
            Would be to purchase the Seminary at present for what it may be worth.
            Mr. Law then offered the following resolution which after some discussion passed unanimously.
                    Resolved, That in the opinion of this Board the University Buildings and Lot on which the same is
                    located be offered for Sale.
            The following Resolutions were then submitted by Mr. Law.
            Resolutions for Sale of University Lot, &c.
            Resolved that the Committee heretofore appointed to lease the University Building and Lot be
                    authorized to make a Contract of Sale for the same—On the following basis to-wit: The
                    property to be appaised [sic], One appraiser to be appointed by the Committee, one
                    by the party desirous of purchasing the same—the 3rd one by the two first named
                    appraisers.
            2nd. The property to be sold for not less than the appraisement, unless the committee should deem it
                    right & proper to take less.
            3rd. The amount to be paid by the purchaser down shall be the amount requisite to discharge all the
                    outstanding debts against the Institution.
            4th. The balance on such time as may be agreed on by the Committee the purchaser giving Security to
                    be approved of by the Committee.
            5th. That said Committee proceed further to make sale and report to this Board.
            After considerable discussion the above resolutions were offered & seconded &
                    carried unanimously.
            It was then moved and seconded that the Board go into the Election of a Treasurer to this Board.
            Whereupon an election was held and William Burtch declared duly elected he having the greatest number
                    of Votes.
            It was then ordered that he give Bond payable to the Board of Ten thousand Dollars.
            It was then ordered that the Secretary call on M. Robinson and demand in the Name of the Trustees of 
                        Vincennes
                     University the Books & papers thereto belonging.
            The Meeting then adjourned.
            Samuel Hill Prest.
            Joseph Somes, Secy.
            
            Octr. 24th 1839.
            The Board of Trustees of 
                        Vincennes
                     University again met pursuant to notice at the office of S. Hill, Esqr. Octr. 24th
                    1839. Present: Messrs. Hill, Decker, Carnan, Burtch, LeRoy, Hay, Alexander, Martin, &
                    Somes.
            After reading minutes of former meeting, &c. Mr. Carnan [made] a report from the Committee
                    authorized to sell the Lot & Building at the last Meeting.
            
                    Report of Committee.
                
            The committee of the Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University empowered to effect a sale of the Building called the 
                        Vincennes
                     University and the ground appurtenant thereto, would report that in pursuance of their
                    instructions they appointed Thomas Bishop on their part to appraise said property and that Mr.
                    Vabret selected John Moore on his part; and that Messrs. Bishop & Moore selected David
                    Mc-Henry as thirdsman—that these three gentlemen returned to them under their hands the
                    annexed estimate of the value of said property Marked A. and made a part of this report by which it
                    will be perceived that the value of said property was affixed by these gentlemen at Six thousand
                    Dollars.— Your Committee knowing that this amount was not as high as some of the members
                    of the Board had been led to believe they could get, waited on Mr. Vabret and informed him of the
                    fact, who very promptly offered Five hundred dollars more than the appraisment [sic] rather than to
                    occasion any unpleasant feeling with any part of the Board—which sum, to-wit: Six
                    thousand five hundred Dollars, your committee felt themselves bound to take and concluded the
                    contract with him on the following terms, to-wit: One thousand, eight hundred Dollars to be paid
                    down—the balance in four annual payments with interest from the present time and to be
                    secured by bond and mortgage.
            Signed, R. N. Carnan, A. LeRoy, Hiram Decker. Octr. 24th 1839.
            Which report was adopted by the following Vote the ayes and Noes being demanded by Mr. Hay. Ayes:
                    Decker, Hill, Carnan, Burtch, LeRoy, Alexander, Martin, & Somes—
                    Noes—J. D. Hay.
            It was then, Ordered that the President of the Board of Trustees of 
                        Vincennes
                     University sign the Deed in his official  Capacity,
                    & seal the same, upon the Mortgages & Notes being duly executed &
                    money paid.
            Ordered that the Treasurer be authorized to receive the first payment, & receipt for the
                    same—and also receive the Notes, &c. & have the Mortgage recorded.
            Copy of Appraisment
            We the undersigned being called on in Behalf of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University & Catholic College to value the University building, Lot,
                    & other fixtures therein do Value the same at the sum of six thousand Dollars Given under
                    our hands this 23rd October 1839.
            [Signed] John Moore, Thos. Bishop, D. McHenry.
            Mr. Carnan offered the following resolution which passed. Resolved that the memorial and list of
                    debts presented to this Board by the President and Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Academy be referred to the Committee on Finance.
            Dr. Decker offered the following which also passed. Resolved, that a Committee be appointed to select
                    a situation suitable to build a new University Building on, and report the same—as also a
                    plan of said building. Said Committee to be Messrs. Decker, Burtch, & Carnan.
            Resolved that the Building Committee be authorized to rent to Mr. Rice66 the
                    furniture formerly used in the University Building for the time being.
            Mr. Hay asked leave to withdraw sundry memorials, petitions, &c. heretofore presented by
                    him, which leave was granted and ordered that Secretary deliver the same.
            The Board then adjourned to meet again on Monday the 28th.
            Samuel Hill Prest.
            Joseph Somes. Secy.
            Monday Evening, Octr. 28th 1839.
            The Board met agreeably to adjournment at S. Hill's office—present: Messrs. Hill,
                    Alexander, LeRoy, Carnan, Decker, Law, Burtch, & Somes, & Martin.
            The President reported that agreeably to his Instructions he had signed the Deed, &c.
            
               
                  66 A notice in the Gazette, July 27, 1839, stated that
                        D. E. Y. Rice had "obtained the consent of the Trustees to occupy the Seminary edifice
                        … to open an English and Classical School, for the instruction of pupils of both
                        sexes in the branches of study usually taught in common schools and Academies."
            
            
            The Treasurer reported that the first Installment was paid, Notes & Mortgage executed
                    agreeably to his Instructions, &C.
            The Committee on Finance to whom was referred the Memorial and List of Debts as per Schedule Marked
                    A. handed in to this Board by the Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Academy, having examined them, would report, that an order be entered for the payment
                    of the same.
            Signed: R. N. Carnan, A. LeRoy.
            Octr. 28th 1839.
            Wherefore Upon Motion, it was resolved that the list of Debts, Schedule marked A. be paid by orders
                    on the Treasurer signed by the Secy.
            Ordered, that the Treasurer be directed to pay Thomas Bishop Two hundred & sixty-seven
                    dollars and Eighty-three cents out of any funds in his hands.
            Ordered, that the Treasurer be directed to pay Judah, Harper & Co. Twenty-two dollars,
                    thirty-eight cents.
            Ordered, that the Treasurer be directed to pay Louis Liberty One hundred & fifty Dollars.
            Ordered, that the Treasurer be directed to pay William Burtch Thirty-five Dollars, for Stove
                    furnished.
            Ordered, that the Treasurer be directed to pay Burtch & Heberd Forty-Nine Dollars
                    & thirty-four cents.
            Ordered, that the Treasurer be directed to pay S. & W. J. Wise Fifteen Dollars
                    & fifty cents.
            Ordered, that the Treasurer be directed to pay John Moore, Six hundred & twenty-seven
                    Dollars & forty-six cents.
            Ordered, that the Treasurer be directed to pay A. T. Ellis Sixty-One dollars & twelve
                    & half cents.
            Ordered, that the Treasurer be directed to pay Wm. Couper three Dollars & fifty cents.
            Ordered, that the Treasurer be directed to pay R. Y. Caddington67 Twenty Dollars.
            Ordered, that the Treasurer be directed to pay E. Stout fifteen Dollars.
            Ordered, that the Treasurer be directed to pay Ross & Ewing, Twenty-five Dollars
                    & three cents.
            Ordered, that the Treasurer be directed to pay Thos. Bishop Two hundred & ten dollars
                    being the amount drawn by R. Wilkinson in Thos. Bishop's favour.
            
               
                  67 Caddington was the publisher and editor of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Gazette. A Whig, he carried on a running newspaper war with Jacksonianism in
                        general and with Elihu Stout's Western Sun in particular. A payment to Stout is
                        authorized in the next item of business.
            
            
            Ordered, that the Treasurer be directed to pay Reed Wilkinson Three hundred dollars for tuition.
            Ordered, that the Treasurer be directed to pay Nich. Smith two dollars 12 1/2/100.
            Ordered, that the Treasurer be directed to pay Hiram Decker twenty-six Dollars.
            Ordered, that the Treasurer be directed to pay Burtch and Hannah Four Dollars.
            The Board then adjourned.
            Saml. Hill Prest.
            Joseph Somes, Secy.
            1st Monday in April 1840. April 6.
            The Board met at the Office of the Secretary present: Messrs. Burtch, Alexander, LeRoy, Badollet,
                    Carnan, Martin, Decker, Hill, & Somes, Secy.
            The Committee on Lot & Buildings reported progress and asked leave for further time, which
                    on motion was granted.
            The President appointed the Committees for the present year as follows:
            On Building-Decker, Burtch, & Carnan.
            — Instruction—Alexander, Law, & Badollet.
            — Finance-Judah, LeRoy, & 
                        Wise
                    .
            The Treasurer made his report which was read & referred to the Committee on Finance.
            Dr. Somes offered the following preamble and resolution:
            Whereas in selling the old University Building, a majority of the Trustees believed they were acting
                    for the benefit of the public generally, and therefore in order to satisfy and convince the public
                    of the same, and also for the further promotion of sound learning and good morals amongst us, it is
                    necessary to take the preliminary steps for the establishment of good schools in our town,68 where the youth of both 
                  
                     68 In an article in the Western Sun, March 3, 1839,
                            the quantity, if not the quality, of schools in 
                                Vincennes
                             at the time was suggested in a "census of schools" which
                            listed "
                                Vincennes
                             Academy with 49 students, the Catholic College with 30, Crosby's
                            Practical Institute with 55, Female Boarding School with 30, the Free School by the Sisters
                            of Charity with 10, Mrs. Wilkinson's Female Academy with 35, and Mrs. Sawyers
                            Female Academy with 30." 
                                Vincennes
                            , the writer declared, "is not surpassed in this respect."
                            Other schools whose advertisements appeared in 1840 in the Western Sun and
                            the Gazette were the 
                                Vincennes
                             Independent Seminary, the 
                                Vincennes
                             Protestant Academy, and a night school conducted by T. H. Cavanaugh.
               
                     sexes can be thoroughly instructed in sound practical knowledge
                    fitting them for their future stations in Society.—Therefore:
            Resolved—That the Committee on Instruction be requested to enquire into the expediency of
                    selecting a President and also suitable Instructors for a Male & a female School, to be
                    conducted under the Sanction of the President & Trustees of the Board-and that they
                    report at the next Meeting.
            Which were adopted and after considerable discussion were referred on motion to the Committee on
                    Instruction.
            On motion the board then adjourned.
            Samuel Hill Prest.
            Joseph Somes Secy.
            1st Tuesday in May 1840. May 5th 1840.
            The Board met at the office of the Secretary, present: Messrs. Hill, Burtch, Martin, Baddolet, S. 
                        Wise
                    , R. N. Carnan, Gibson, Decker, LeRoy, Jacob Harper, & Somes.
            The Committee on Buildings reported progress and asked for further time which was granted.
            The Committee on Instruction made the following report, which on motion was received and concurred
                    in.
            
                    Report of Committee on Instruction.
                
            The undersigned "Committee on Instruction of the board of Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University" beg leave to report— That they have performed the duty
                    assigned them, and with much pleasure submit to the Board the accompanying papers from the Bevd. B.
                    B. Killikelly69 announcing the fact that he will accept the Presidency of the
                    Institution.
            Your Committee believe that the interests of the Institution could not be in better hands and that
                    with the personal 
                  
                     69 Bryan Bernard Killikelly was the pastor of St. James Protestant
                            Episcopal Church in 
                                Vincennes
                            . In his letter of acceptance to the committee on instruction which is preserved
                            in the 
                                Vincennes
                             University archives he claimed as part of his experience that he had
                            "founded … and presided over as President of the Boar! of Trustees and
                            Principal … the Armstrong Co. Penn. Institute… . He stated that if he
                            were appointed president of the university he would consider it "but fair that I
                            should have the selecting of such teachers in all the departments as I may deem best
                            qualified" and enclosed a copy of the "laws of Kemper College, 
                                St. Louis
                            , Mo." as a possible guide in "reference to a code of laws for
                            the 
                                Vincennes
                             University." Although this name was usually written as
                            "KilliKelly" in the minute book, it appears "Killikelly"
                            in contemporary newspapers and later references; "Killikelly" is used in
                            this reproduction.
               
                     Superintendance of the Revd. Gentleman, and the aid which he
                    can bring to his support—there can be no doubt of the success of the School.
            The right of Mr. Killikelly to select such assistant teachers, as he may deem necessary for the
                    management of the Institution your Committee believe to be proper and just— No Individual
                    can control such an Institution successfully without such a power—The successful
                    management of any Seminary of learning, but more especially of one, where there are no
                    Salaries—depends on the fitness, qualifications, and conduct of the principal,
                    responsible as he is to the Trustees and the Publick for its administration, it would seem to your
                    Committee, that he should have the power of selecting and dismissing his assistants-as he deemed
                    best for the promotion of its usefulness.
            As it regards the "Concil of advice to the President" as suggested in Mr.
                    Killikelly's letter—this matter is left to the consideration of the Board.
            The Committee cannot close the report without urging on the Board—The immediate
                    commencement of preparations for carrying into effect the design of the Corporation of rendering
                    this Institution one of the most valuable and important Seminaries of learning in the
                    West—There never will be a better period for making a purchase of a Lot on which to erect
                    a Building and the obtaining of materials for erecting the same—The location is a matter
                    of much importance, it should be as nearly central as possible, and of a size to authorize any
                    future additions to the building that may be required, besides furnishing ample room for play
                    ground.—It is hoped the Trustees will see the propriety of an immediate action on this
                    subject, and will appoint forthwith a committee to purchase a
                    Scite.—All which is respectfully submitted.
            signed John Law, A. Badollet, comtee.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                    , May 1st 1840.
            The letter of Mr. Killikelly, which is on file, being read and the accompanying
                    documents—it was moved and seconded that, the Revd. B. B. Killikelly be appointed
                    President of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University and that the Secy. inform him of the same under the seal of the University
                    & request his acceptance of the same & communicate his assent to this Board;
                    which motion being put to the board by the President was carried unanimously.
            
            Two communications having been received requesting the use of the furniture belonging to the
                    University one from B. B. Killikelly, the other from T. H. Cavanaugh70—it was ordered that at the expiration of D. E. Y. Rice's present term,
                    the Revd. Mr. Killikelly be requested to take charge of them, for the use of the Grammar School
                    recommended to be started as soon as practicable.
            The Committee on Finance—reported that they had examined the Treasurer's report
                    up to Octr. 31, 1839. and found it correct and just and hoped the same would be received
                    &C.
            Signed A. LeRoy, Samuel 
                        Wise
                    , Comtee.
            By the Treasurer's report on file—it appears that he received from M. Vabret the
                    first payment on University
            
               
                  Building
                  $1800.00
               
               
                  and paid out to Secty
                  1830.79
               
               
                  Leaving a Balance due Treasurer of
                  30.79
               
            
            Octr. 31st 1839. Signed, Wm. Burtch, Treasurer.
            On Motion of R. N. Carnan, It was—Resolved that the Committee on buildings be hereby
                    authorized to procure a room or rooms suitable for the President of the University to open a male
                    grammar School in as soon as practicable, and that said Committee be limited in the annual rent they
                    give for such room to one half of the annual interest accruing on the University funds.
            On motion—The Board then adjourned.
            Samuel Hill Prest.
            Joseph Somes. Secy.
            First Tuesday in June 1840. June 2nd 1840.
            This being a regular stated meeting of the Board, and there only being present Messrs. Law, Burtch,
                    LeRoy, & Somes, not enough for a quorum they adjourned.
            Saml. Hill Pres.
            Joseph Somes, Secy.
            
               
                  70 Beginning in April, 1840, Cavanaugh published notices in the 
                            Vincennes
                         papers of the opening of an "Independent Seminary … for both
                        sexes and any age … to take the place of the one now taught by the Reverend D. E. Y.
                        Rice." In 1841 he added a night school to his program. Apparently he also continued his
                        own education, since he published in 1844 a "Medical Notice" declaring his
                        intention "to open the practice of Physic" in 
                            Vincennes
                        . Gazette, April 18, 1840; April 24, 1841; August 1, 1844.
            
            
            First Tuesday in July 1840.
            On July 7th The monthly meeting of the Board of Trustees at the office of the Secretary: Present:
                    Messrs. Alexander, Killikelly, Hill, Baddolet, LeRoy, Burtch, Harper, S. 
                        Wise
                    , G. R. Gibson, J. B. Martin, & Somes.
            Upon the meeting being called to order by the President— The Letter of the Revd. B. B.
                    Killikelly signifying his acceptance of the Presidency of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University was read & upon motion he was requested to take his seat as one
                    of the Board ex officio, agreeably to a provision in the charter.
            The Committee on Buildings reported that they had not yet rented a room suitable for a grammar school
                    & asked for further time.
            On motion—The Revd. B. B. Killikelly was added to the Committee on Buildings.
            The Revd. B. B. Killikelly announced to the board that he had secured the services of Mr.
                        Chestnut,71 a gentleman well qualified to take charge of the Grammar School.
            The Board then adjourned to the next monthly meeting.
            Samuel Hill Prest.
            Joseph Somes, Secy.
            1st Tuesday in November 1840.
            This being a regular meeting present: Messrs. Burtch, Hill, Harper, & Somes—and
                    not being a quorum—adjourned to meet on tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock at the
                    office of the Secretary.
            Jos. Somes, Secy.
            [November 4, 1840]
            Wednesday morning—Board met agreeably to adjournment present: Messrs. Hill, LeRoy, Burtch,
                    Martin, Carnan, Law, 
                        Wise
                    , & Somes, & Judah.
            The meeting being called to order by the President, and the minutes of last meeting read: The
                    Committee on Buildings made the following report:
            The Committee appointed by the board to select a suitable lot to build a University building upon
                    have received several 
                  
                     71 Chestnut was identified in a school advertisement as a
                            "graduate of Peter-house College, 
                        Cambridge, England
                     , who has
                            taught in King's College, 
                                London
                            , the 
                                London
                             University and some distinguished schools in the 
                                United States
                            ." Gazette, July 18, 1840.
               
                     proposals, but advise the lot of Doctor H. Decker opposite the
                    Presbyterian Church at $500. as being central and well located for such building. signed
                    R. N. Carnan, Wm. Burtch. Octr. 1840.
            Upon motion the report was accepted and concurred in— s. Wise only dissenting.
            Mr. Carnan, offered the following resolution. Resolved, That the building committee be hereby
                    authorized to close the contract with Doctor Hiram Decker for the purchase of his Lot, by paying him
                    $500. on the receipt of his Deed conveying a good and perfect title, free from all
                    incumbrances, to the President and Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University.
            Which upon motion—was carried in the affirmative.
            Samuel Hill Prest.
            Joseph Somes, Secy.
            Called Meeting Decr. 16. 1840.
            Agreeably to a call made by the President for a Meeting of the Board of Trustees to be had at the
                    office of the Secretary—were present: Messrs. Baddolet, Burtch, LeRoy, Gibson, Martin, 
                        Wise
                    , Alexander, & Somes.
            The President being absent—On motion Mr. Alexander was called to the
                    Chair—after having called the Board to order: Mr. Gibson moved the election of A. T.
                    Ellis to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of Jno. D. Hay, which upon motion was taken by
                    consent.
            The Committee on Buildings, Lot, &c. made the following report:
            The Committee appointed to receive a deed from Dr. H. Decker for Town Lot No. 191, and pay him
                    $500. for the same—Report, that, agreeable to the resolution of the board,
                    they paid to Hiram Decker Five hundred dollars upon the reception from him of a deed &
                    title papers conveying to the President and Trustees of the University of 
                        Vincennes
                     the fee simple of Town Lot No. One hundred & Ninety one
                    (191)—which deed & title papers they herewith present to the Board. Signed R.
                    N. Carnan, Wm. Burtch.
            Vins. Decr. 1. 1840.
            The above report is received & concurred in, and Deed ordered to be recorded.
            
            The Treasurer made the following report:
            The treasurer of the Board of Trustees of Vins. University has reed. this day the 2nd Installment of
                    the purchase money for the former University Property being:
            
               
                  Principal
                  $1175.00
               
               
                  Int: from Octr. 24'39.
                  77.56
               
               
                  Total reed.
                  $1252.56M
               
            
            Signed Wm. Burtch, Treas.
            Ordered, That the Treasurer pay Arthur McGill ten dollars in full of his a/c against the Vins.
                    Academy.
            The Board adjourned to meet again at 7 o'clock this even'g.
            Joseph Somes. Secy.
            7 o'clock P.M. Deer. 16. 1840.
            Board met agreeably to adjournment: present: Messrs. Alexander, Baddolet, Harper, Killikelly, Decker, 
                        Wise
                    , Gibson, Martin, LeRoy, & Somes.
            The meeting being called to order—Mr. Baddollet offered a preamble & resolution
                    relating to the Township of Land granted to the 
                        Vincennes
                     Land District &c. which after considerable discussion was withdrawn by the
                    mover and the following Resolutions offered by G. R. Gibson in lieu of them.
            Resolved 1st. That it is the opinion of this Board that they have a good claim to the Township of
                    land granted to the 
                        Vincennes
                     Land District by the Congress of the U.S.—and that the said claim should be
                    investigated.
            Resolved 2nd. That the Board employ some Legal Man to prepare an abstract of all laws in reference to
                    the claim to be submitted to such eminent Counsel as this Board may hereafter determine upon, and
                    that he make his report to this Board at their next regular meeting.
            Resolved 3rd. That be employed to discharge said duty.
            The above resolutions being read separately & severally seconded—-passed
                    & were concurred in by a majority of the Board.
            It then being in order to fill the blank with the name of some attorney—it was filled by
                    the name of G. R. Gibson, who is therefore employed to discharge said duty.
            The Committee on Buildings presented the following report:
            
            
               
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana
            Aug. 25. 1840.
            The Comtee. on Buildings beg leave to report; That they have rented Rooms in the Brick buildings on
                    Market Street, near the corner of 5th every way suitable for the purposes embraced in the resolution
                    passed by the Board at its meeting in May. "The rent not to exceed the one half of the
                    annual interest accruing on the University funds.
            Which report was upon motion received and concurred in.
            It was then upon motion of Capt. Martin: Ordered, That the Treasurer be directed to loan upon
                    mortgage security of Real Estate free of other incumbrances at 1/2 its Value, said Value to be fixed
                    by two disinterested persons—all moneys in his hands, not otherwise appropriated by this
                    board, in Sums not to exceed $500. to any one person—at the rate of 10 per
                    cent. per annum. Interest to be paid half yearly in advance.
            The following resolution was offered by Capt. Martin, Resolved, that a Committee of three be
                    appointed, whose duty it shall be to propose to this board, some just and equal mode, by which the
                    Interest on the fund of this Institution can be appropriated in accordance with the spirit
                    & meaning of the Charter, in educating Youths free of the Ordinary expenses.
            which upon motion was ordered to lie on the table till next meeting.
            The Board then adjourned.
            T. Alexander. Pres. Pro Tem
            Joseph Somes. Secy.
            1st Tuesday in January 1841. January 5th 1841.
            This being the regular meeting of the Board, there were present the following Gentlemen: viz: Messrs.
                    Hill, Alexander, Killikelly, Burtch, Gibson, Badollet, Harper, Martin, Law, & Somes.
            S. Hill prst. having called the Board to order, &c.
            G. R. Gibson made his report upon the claim of Land &c. referred to, and ordered to be
                    made at the last meeting— which was accepted & ordered to be laid upon the
                    table untill next meeting.
            Upon motion of Judge Law it was ordered that the Treasurer pay Judah and Gibson thirty
                    dollars$25 for the abstract of Laws &c. and $5. for their
                    conveyancing fee.
            
            Ordered that the Treasurer pay John Ross Six dollars & twenty five cents in full for Rent
                    of School Room.
            Resolved, that Fifty dollars be appropriated towards the Rent of School Room for the current
                    year,—which upon motion passed by consent and it is therefore: Ordered, that the
                    Treasurer be directed to pay over to B. B. Killikelly Fifty dollars on a/c of Rent.
            The Board then adjourned.
            Samuel Hill Prest.
            Joseph Somes, Secy.
            1st Tuesday in February 1841. Feby. 2nd 1841
            This being a regular meeting of the Board, there were present Messrs. Hill, Killikelly, Ellis,
                    Harper, Martin, Law, LeRoy, & Somes.
            The Report of G. R. Gibson, which was ordered to be laid upon the table at the last meeting was taken
                    up & upon motion was received, and ordered to be placed on file.
            Dr. Hit72 presented an account of Messrs. Hitt & Sawyer for six
                    dollars & fifty eight cents for Paints &c. furnished for the use of old
                    Seminary building, which upon motion was, Ordered, that the Treasurer be directed to pay Hitt
                    & Sawyer six dollars & fifty eight cents.
            Revd. Mr. Killikelly President of the University asked for leave of Absence for a few months, which
                    upon motion was granted.
            The Resolution offered by Capt. Martin at the Dew. meeting for lessening the expense of education to
                    some youths, was taken up and adopted, and the President appointed a Committee in accordance with
                    that Resolution, said Committee to consist of, Messrs. Martin, Law, & Ellis.
            The Board then adjourned.
            Samuel Hill Prest.
            Joseph Somes Secy.
            
               
                  72 Dr. Willis Washington Hitt was a native of Kentucky who migrated to
                        Ohio in 1815 and to Maryland in 1820, where he attended the University of Maryland and graduated
                        from its medical department in 1825. In 1829 he settled in 
                            Vincennes
                        , practiced medicine and operated a drug business, and, until his death in 1876, was
                        one of the most energetic promoters of the city's cultural agencies. He served for
                        twenty years as president of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company and for thirty-two years was a member of the 
                            Vincennes
                         University board, to which he was elected in November, 1841; he was elected
                        president of the university board in 1848. Hitt was a member of the Indiana Constitutional
                        Convention of 1850-1851. Western Sun, September 4, 1830; Gazette, June 20, 1835; Shake, "The Beginnings of Medical Education in
                        Indiana."
            
            
            1st Tuesday in March 1841. March 2nd 1841.
            This being the regular monthly meeting of the Board, there were present: Messrs. Hill, Law, Burtch,
                    LeRoy, Martin, Gibson, Ellis, 
                        Wise
                    , Carnan, & Somes.
            The meeting being called to order and the minutes of the last meeting read: On motion of Judge Law it
                    was, Resolved, that the Secretary be empowered to procure a common seal for the 
                        Vincennes
                     University-with the following design:
            
            Mr. Law offered the following preamble and resolutions which passed unanimously, viz:
            Whereas the Revd. B. B. Killikelly, President of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University is about to depart for Europe on a mission connected with the Interests of
                    Religion, Science, and Literature.73
            
            And Whereas—as a testimony of the high regard and esteem of the Board of Trustees of said
                    University for his talents, learning, & piety.
            Resolved—that this Board will in pursuance of the powers vested in them by the Charter
                    confer on the said Revd. B. B. Killikelly the honorary degree of Doctor of Divinity.
            also Resolved, that the President and Secretary of said University make out a diploma for the Revd.
                    B. B. Killikelly— and after officially signing the same, affix thereto the Seal of said
                    University.
            The following was adopted as a suitable form for a diploma, viz:
            Whereas the Revd. B. B. Killikelly by an unanimous resolution of the
                    "President and Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University" was on the 5th day of May 1840 elected President of the Faculty of
                    said University.
            And whereas the President and Trustees of said University at their regular meeting on Tuesday the 2nd
                    March 1841. as a testimony of their high opinion of the learning, talents, and piety of the said
                    Revd. B. B. Killikelly unanimously resolved that they would in pursuance of the powers vested in
                        
                  
                     73 The Gazette, March 13, 1841, carried a story on
                            Killikelly's "mission … to the Atlantic cities, and thence to 
                                England
                             … in the interests of religion, science, and
                        literature."
               
                     them by the Charter entitled "An act to incorporate an
                    University in the Indiana Territory"—approved September 17th 1807, by William
                    Henry Harrison Governor of said Territory—and now President of the 
                        United States
                    —as by said act reference thereto being had will more fully
                    appear;— confer on the said Revd. B. B. Killikelly the honorary degree Doctor of
                    Divinity.
            Now to all to whom these presents shall come Greeting— Know Ye: That in pursuance of the
                    powers vested in us as President and Trustees of said University—We do hereby give,
                    grant, bestow, and confer on the said Revd. B. B. Killikelly the degree of Doctor of
                    Divinity—with all the rights, privileges, and honors appertaining to said degree enjoyed
                    by all who have had the same conferred at any and every college or University in any part of the 
                        United States
                    .
            In witness whereof we have hereunto affixed the Seal of said University and attached the signatures
                    of the President and Secretary of the same this 2nd day of March 1841. at 
                        Vincennes
                     in the State of Indiana-and of the Independence of the 
                        United States
                     the Sixty-fifth.
            Mr. Law, then offered the following preamble and Resolutions which on motion passed unanimously, viz:
            Whereas the Revd. B. B. Killikelly D.D. and President of the University of 
                        Vincennes
                    , in the State of Indiana and the U.S. of America is about visiting Europe, Therefore:
            Resolved, that the said Revd. B. B. Killikelly be and he is hereby empowered and requested by said
                    Board of Trustees to accept and receive from all the Universities, Colleges, Seminaries of learning,
                    and from all the friends of Science and Literature in Great Britain such donations of money, Books,
                    Philosophical, astronomical, and Chemical apparatus, as may be useful to said University, and to
                    make such acknowledgments to the Donors of the same on the behalf of the Trustees of said University
                    as he may deem proper.
            Resolved further, That the list of Individuals making such donations with the several donations be
                    preserved— and entered on the records of the University.
            Also Resolved, that the president and Secretary of the University sign the same, and affix thereto
                    the common seal of the University.
            Resolved—That the tuition fees of the pupils of the Institution be appropriated to the
                    President for his Salary for the year beginning the 1st Tuesday in May 1841, as also the sum of One
                    hundred and twenty-five dollars for the Rent of School Room &c.
            
            Which resolution upon motion of Jos. Somes passed unanimously.
            George R. Gibson, Esqr. tendered to the Board his resignation as a trustee, which upon Motion the
                    same was accepted.
            Upon Motion of A. T. Ellis the name of D. S. Bonner was proposed as a suitable person to fill the
                    vacancy occasioned by the above resignation, and whereupon further motion he was elected by consent,
                    and refused to serve.
            There being no further business, the Board then adjourned.
            Samuel Hill Prest.
            Joseph Somes, Secy.
            12th of May [1841]—Called Meeting.
            Pursuant to a call of S. Hill, Prest. of the Board the following trustees met at the office of the
                    Secretary on the Morning of the 12th May 1841. [Present:] Revd. Thos. Alexander, Messrs. S. Hill,
                    Prest., Somes, Secy., Ellis, 
                        Wise
                    , Baddolett, Martin, Carnan, & Harper.
            The Secretary presented the a/c of W. M. Small for a common seal chgd. $10.
            On Motion of Capt. Martin-it was, Ordered that the Treasurer pay to Wm. M. Small the sum of Seven
                    Dollars for the Common Seal of the University.
            There being no further business the Board then adjourned.
            Samuel Hill Prest.
            Joseph Somes, Secy.
            Tuesday—23rd of November 1841.
            Present: S. Hill, Revd. Th. Alexander, Messrs. Carnan, Burtch, Harper, Ellis, 
                        Wise
                    , Somes, & Revd. B. B. Killikelly,74 D. Gass.75
            
            
               
                  74 Killikelly's return to 
                            Vincennes
                        , following his European tour, was announced in the Gazette,
                        November 13, 1841. No list of donors or donations resulting from his trip has been found in the
                        records of the university. Killikelly was apparently successful, however, in obtaining
                        sufficient funds to finance the construction of a stone church for his congregation. G. E.
                        Greene, History of 
                                Old Vincennes
                             and 
                                Knox County
                            
                   (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1911), I, 420; National Cyclopaedia of American Biography (20
                        vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1898-1929), XIX, 98.
               
                  75 David Gass was a partner in "Maddox &
                        Gass," a general store. He was at this time (1841) treasurer of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Historical and Antiquarian Society and president of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Sunday School Society. Gazette, December 22, 1838; February 27, July 3,
                    1841.
            
            
            Whereas since the last meeting of this Board It has learned with regret of the death of A. LeRoy
                    & the removal of A. Baddollet from the State & have also learned that G. R.
                    Gibson had resigned—therefore upon motion resolved that the Vacancies be filled by an
                    election of three suitable persons.
            Whereupon—an election was held and it appearing that Messrs. Gass, Hitt, &
                        Robinson76 received the highest number of votes were declared duly elected.
            On Motion of R. N. Carnan It was,—Ordered that the Treasurer pay to the Revd. B. B.
                    Killikelly the sum of One hundred & thirteen Dollars and 30 cents in full of rent of
                    Schoolrooms on Market Street up to the 1st October 1841. out of the first money that may come into
                    his hands.
            Samuel Hill Prest. V. U.
            Joseph Somes, Secy.
            1[st] Tuesday in June 1842. June 6th
            Present: S. Hill, Prest., W. W. Hitt, W. Burtch, J. B. Martin, D. Gass, J. Harper, H. Decker,
                    & J. Somes, Secy., & A. T. Ellis, S. 
                        Wise
                    , & Revd. B. B. Killikelly.
            The Meeting being called to order—Dr. Decker offered the following resolution which passed
                    unanimously:
            Resolved that Mr. James Bentley77 be requested to give the Treasurer a receipt
                    for the Benches & Desks and all other furniture now in his possession for the safe
                    Keeping & prompt Delivery of the same when called on so to do by the Board, as well as
                    all other persons who may obtain any of said Furniture &c. belonging to the 
                        Vincennes
                     University.
            Resolved that all furniture & fixtures be consigned to the care & protection of
                    the Treasurer.
            Resolved, that a Committee of three be appointed by the chair to examine the books of the Secretary
                    and make an 
                  
                     76 Martin Robinson was an attorney. He served as chairman of the board
                            of trustees of the borough of 
                                Vincennes
                             in 1831-1832 and was a leader in the temperance movement in 
                                Vincennes
                             during the 1830's and 1840's. Gazette, May
                            21, 1831; January 25, 1840.
                  
                     77 In the Gazette, May 21, 1842, B. B. Killikelly announced that he
                            had "… relinquished the charge of the Grammar School, in favor of Mr.
                            James Bentley" and that he "respectfully recommended that gentleman to the
                            kind consideration of the patrons of the school… ." The following July
                            Killikelly resigned from the presidency of the university and as pastor of the Episcopal
                            church and moved to Port Gibson, Miss. He returned to 
                                Vincennes
                             in December, 1844, and reopened the 
                                Vincennes
                             Female Institute." Gazette, July 1, 1842; December
                            19, 1844.
               
                     equitable settlement with the Revd. B. B. Killikelly D.D. and
                    report to the next regular meeting of the Board. Comtee.— Messrs. Martin, Gass,
                    & Harper.
            Dr. Hitt offered the following resolution which upon motion passed unanimously.
            Resolved, that a Committee of three be appointed to enquire into the expediency of erecting a
                    suitable building to be used as a grammar or primary department of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University, and also to make an estimate of the plan and cost of said building
                    & report at next meeting.
            Committee appointed were: Messrs. Hitt, Decker, & Burtch.
            The Board then adjourned.
            Samuel Hill Prest.
            Joseph Somes, Secy.
            1st Tuesday in July 1842.
            Present: S. Hill, Esqr., Prest., Revd. B. B. Killikelly, M. Robinson, H. Decker, W. Burtch, J. B.
                    Martin, D. Gass, S. 
                        Wise
                    , Jno. Law, W. W. Hitt, R. N. Carnan, & Jacob Harper, & Joseph
                    Somes.
            The Comtee. appointed to settle with Revd. B. B. Killikelly for Rent of Rooms, &c. made a
                    report which led to considerable discussion.
            Upon motion said report was finally passed and the amt. of Forty seven Dollars 11 1/2 cents ordered
                    to be paid the Revd. B. B. Killikelly by the Treasurer.
            The President appointed the following Gentlemen a Committee on Finance for the present year, viz: S. 
                        Wise
                    , J. B. Martin, & M. Robinson.
            The report of W. Burtch, Treasr. submitted to Committee on Finance which was reported correct, and
                    ordered to be spread on the Records.
            The Treasurer's report now on file shows a Balance in his hands of $431.14
                    cents—and Amt. loaned to Wm. Nicholson of $150. and to F. Eberwine of
                    $500.
            Comtee. to report on Building allowed further time.
            Revd. B. B. Killikelly tendered his resignation which was accepted.
            Board adjourned.
            Samuel Hill Prest.
            Joseph Somes, Secy.
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society Library Acquires John Armstrong Papers
            Papers of Col. John Armstrong, soldier of the Revolutionary and Indian wars and early settler in 
                        Clark County
                    , were recently acquired by the Indiana Historical Society Library. These documents and
                    letters, totalling several thousand, range from 1780-1850 and from small notes to large old record
                    books. Of particular interest are those relating to his service in the Army in western posts from
                    1786 to 1793 and his correspondence with other officers in the Army concerning land purchases.
            Armstrong moved from the 
                        Cincinnati
                     area to 
                        Clark County
                    , Indiana, in 1814, laid out the town of 
                        Bethlehem
                    , and carried on a mercantile business. Included with the papers are records of Judge
                    William Goforth of 
                        Cincinnati
                     and of Armstrong's son, William G. Armstrong, who served in the Indiana
                    legislature and was active in local politics and business.
         
         
            New Museum Established at Indiana University
            The Museum of Anthropology, History, and Folklore was organized at Indiana University on July 1,
                    1963. Professor Wesley R. Hurt has been appointed director of the Museum. Several rooms in Maxwell
                    Hall will house the Museum's exhibition, research, and collection program. Objects of
                    material culture from various regions of the world will be displayed. Initial exhibits will
                    specialize in specimens from Indiana and the surrounding areas. The Museum is particularly
                    interested in obtaining collections of pioneer objects and photographs related to Indiana
                history.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Messages and Papers Relating to the Administration of David Wallace, Governor of
                        Indiana, 1837-1840. Edited by Dorothy Riker. Indiana Historical
                    Collections, Volume XLIII. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Bureau, 1963. Pp. vii, 601. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $7.60.)
            This volume is the sixth in the Indiana Historical Bureau's series of "messages and
                    papers" of Indiana's territorial and state governors. Companion volumes in the
                    series cover a broader time-span, but the importance of the critical era subsequent to the Panic of
                    1837 undoubtedly justifies the editor's decision to confine the coverage here to the single
                    three-year term of Governor Wallace.
            The volume contains basic executive documents reflecting Indiana's efforts to cope with its
                    responsibilities in carrying out the "mammoth" internal improvements program
                    authorized by the 1836 General Assembly. Included are such significant papers as the
                    governor's annual addresses to the legislature and the regular reports of three key
                    agencies—the Internal Improvements Board, the Fund Commissioners, and the State Bank.
                    These and similar documents have been ferreted from the extensive collection of official papers (Senate Journals, House Journals, Laws of Indiana, etc.) which are in the Indiana
                    State Library. The practical value of a compilation of this type is obvious to the student who has
                    attempted to make his way through the parent collection. The editor's
                    footnotes—though sometimes more lengthy than the sources they are designed to
                    interpret—are a vital part of the documentary presentation.
            It is conceded that a book of governmental documents such as this will have a limited reading
                    audience. Yet, a systematic perusal of its 501 pages will expose the reader to the kind of subtle,
                    authentic drama that only "nearness" to historical events can bring. The plot is
                    simple: how was Indiana to maintain financial solvency in the midst of the stringent fiscal cutback
                    which followed the great Panic? The "Prologue" of the drama was staged back in the
                    late 1820's when state officials became imbued with a multitude of panaceas to cope with
                    the region's transportation problems. "Act I" saw the General Assembly,
                    prompted by the prevailing optimism of the day, commit Hoosiers to a comprehensive internal
                    improvements plan which in retrospect was well beyond their means. The Wallace volume contains the
                    theme of "Act II": the confrontation with reality and the groping for methods to
                    resolve a long chain of financial dilemmas. "Act III," in which the protagonists
                    eventually prevail over adverse circumstances and rise from the melee with a chastened outlook on
                    the facts of economic life, stretches out for more than a decade beyond the official tenure of
                    Governor Wallace.
            As the editor implies (pp. 47-49), this is not a drama in which great heroes have been cast. Even
                    Governor Wallace, who was in a position to play a starring role, seems to prefer the dimmer portions
                    of the stage. A host of secondary figures—Samuel Merrill, Nathan  Palmer, Lucius Scott, 
                        Milton
                     Stapp, Isaac Coe, James Farrington, James B. Johnson, Samuel Judah, Noah Noble, Jesse
                    Williams, Samuel Hanna, Calvin Fletcher, Samuel Lewis—flit back and forth without
                    appreciably altering the course of events. Actually, it seems that it is the
                    "Fates," personified by the Morris Canal and Banking Company, the 
                        London
                     Rothschilds, and the 
                        New York
                     Belmonts, who are harbingers of the action. And clearly the real villain in the whole
                    episode is the depression which began to creep over the nation following the inauguration of
                    President Martin Van Buren.
            It is easy to criticize Governor Wallace and other officials of this era for their actions, or lack
                    of action, in forestalling the bankruptcy which threatened the state from a dozen different
                    directions. But, again, a careful reading of their formal arguments has a tendency to gain support
                    for their efforts. Granted that Indiana's leaders at this time were not Lincolns, Clays,
                    and Jacksons, it would be a mistake to dismiss them lightly. They were "good"
                    frontier people—adroit politicians, respectable administrators, and self-trained experts
                    in the arts of communication. They should not be indicted for failure to comprehend all of the
                    intricacies of "high finance" into which the attempted expansion of their
                    state's facilities inevitably led them.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Victor M. Bogle
         
         
            
               Hoosier Zion: The Presbyterians in Early Indiana. By L. C. Rudolph. Yale Publications in Religion. Edited by David Horne. (
                        New Haven
                    , Conn.: Yale University Press, 1963. Pp. 218. Map, illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $5.00.)
            Dr. Rudolph, of the 
                        Louisville
                     Presbyterian Theological Seminary, presents the story of Presbyterianism in Indiana in
                    the first half of the nineteenth century as a struggle between Yankees and Hoosiers. The Yankees
                    were well-educated Presbyterian ministers from New 
                        England
                     and the middle Atlantic states who, hearing of "the mud and illiteracy and
                    grossness of the frontier … felt the call … to do something about
                    it," and came west to build a "Hoosier Zion-a segment of the kingdom of
                    God" (pp. 47-48).
            He has used a wide variety of sources, many in manuscript, including minutes of church sessions,
                    presbyteries, and synods, and especially valuable reports made to the American Home Missionary
                    Society. Judicious use has been made of contemporary books by Presbyterian ministers Isaac Reed,
                    Baynard Hall, and John M. Dickey; of later church historians such as Sweet and Edson; of such
                    writers on early Indiana as Esarey and Buley; and of the Indiana Magazine of
                    History. Quotations from contemporary writers enrich the text, notably Hall's spicy
                    comments; some quotations from secondary writers might have been abridged.
            Not strictly chronological, the book treats in turn "The Settlers,''
                    "The Preachers," "The Churches," and "The
                    Teaching." The preachers were sent by the General Assembly and various missionary
                    societies, especially the American Home Missionary Society in which Congregationalists cooperated
                    with Presbyterians. Methodist and Baptist workers, already on the ground when the Presbyterians
                    arrived, through the homespun oratory of their lay preachers and the excitement of their  camp meetings, continued their hold on Hoosiers, particularly on those
                    of southern extraction.
            The eastern preachers seemed "exotic" and "too rationalistic," as
                    "they kept answering questions the frontiersmen were not asking," so that
                    "Calvin never had it so hard in 
                        Geneva
                     as some of the Presbyterian ministers had it in Indiana" (pp. 49, 149).
                    Difficulties in financing church buildings and ministers' salaries led Hall to suggest the
                    formation of "The-make-congregations-pay-what-they-voluntarily-promise Society"
                    (p. 61). The unfortunate break between Old School and New School Presbyterians augmented the
                    difficulties.
            In spite of all, Presbyterianism flourished. By 1850 its churches numbered two hundred eighty-two,
                    about one fourth the combined total of Methodist and Baptist churches. Supplementing the Sunday
                    services, frequent "sacramental occasions," with sermons and communion services,
                    lasted from Fridays to Mondays, often overflowing into the woods. Social reforms were advocated, the
                    New School especially urging strong antislavery measures. Presbyterian ministers assumed leadership
                    in interdenominational Sunday schools, and many conducted private schools. The Rev. Caleb Mills of
                    Wabash College worked vigorously for free public schools. Numerous secondary schools were
                    established. The first teachers in 
                        Vincennes
                     University and Indiana State Seminary (later Indiana University) were Presbyterian
                    ministers. 
                        Hanover
                     College was established by the Indiana Synod, and Wabash College by a group of
                    Presbyterians. As the climax of the educational system, an Indiana Theological Seminary was founded
                    in 1829, but succumbed in 1857.
            Rudolph has pointed out clearly the important contributions to the young Hoosier state that the
                    Presbyterians made by setting high standards in intellectual as well as religious fields.
            
                    DePauw University
                
            George B. Manhart
         
         
            
               Navies in the Mountains: The Battles on the Waters of Lake Champlain and Lake George,
                        1609-1814. By Harrison Bird. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1962. Pp. 361. Maps, illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $6.60.)
            This is a splendid account of the naval engagements fought on Lake Champlain and Lake George. The
                    author has produced a narrative distinguished for its charming style, its vividness, and its
                    accuracy. His experienced, well-placed, and concise phrasing guarantees for the reader the high
                    degree of readability found only in historians who write with deliberate care and understanding of
                    the kinetics of the language. It is heartening to find more and more historians abandoning the
                    obfuscous and colorless academic style—which all too often wearies before it
                    imparts—for one which, by the use of well-researched details, creates for the reader an
                    historical picture full of living and fascinating characters.
            The narrative begins with François de Pontgravè, diplomat and trader, and his
                    lieutenant, Samuel de Champlain, who, beginning in 1603, led exploring expeditions on the St.
                    Lawrence River and the lakes, trading with the Algonquins and fighting with them against the
                    Iroquois, their mutual enemies. The book ends with Captain Thomas Macdonough's great naval
                    victory at Plattsburg in 1814. One of the  most vivid chapters
                    of the book describes the Rangers of Robert Rogers, that "moth with the claws of an
                    eagle," who, fighting Frenchmen and Indians on both sides of the lakes, "flitted
                    everywhere around the dying flame of New 
                        France
                    " (p. 63). Equally dramatic are the ensuing chapters on the French and Indian
                    War, during which Sir Jeffrey Amherst, assisted by Rogers Rangers in whaleboats, seized Ticonderoga
                    with its great military supplies. The incredible Rangers also contributed to the fall of 
                        Montreal
                     which, following Wolfe's victory on the Plains of Abraham, yielded all 
                        Canada
                     to the British and hastened the end of the war.
            One of the outstanding feaures of this book is the skill with which the author has drawn his
                    character portraits. As the book progresses from the French and Indian War to the American
                    Revolution, we encounter Ethan Allen who, possessed of a stentorian voice and dressed in a green
                    uniform coat equipped with fancy epaulettes, advanced with eighty-three men and with the assistance
                    of Benedict Arnold against Ticonderoga, which yielded with its great stores of cannon. The author
                    reaches the height of his narratives as he describes how Arnold in council with his superiors
                    suggested that they should build light, small, narrow vessels which could be fast under sail and,
                    more important, would command great maneuverability in the narrow lakes. With such a fleet, built at
                    Skenesborough, Arnold in August, 1776, set out against the British fleet on the lakes; but his
                    impetuosity led him to defeat, though he and his men fought bravely. All this is told in resplendent
                    prose, as is Bourgoyne's journey from 
                        Canada
                     to Lake Champlain, where he forced the Americans to abandon Ticonderoga and Mount
                    Independence. But perhaps the most beautiful passages in the book are those which describe the lakes
                    and the Green Mountains as Captain Thomas Macdonough built his famous frigate, Saratoga, which in September, 1814, helped him win the Battle of Plattsburg. The British
                    commander, Prevost, finding his communications with his base cut and believing that his position was
                    untenable, hastily retreated to 
                        Canada
                    .
            The author concludes his book with an interesting essay on the kinds of boats that participated in
                    the battles, including the bark canoes, the radeaux, the row galleys, the gondolas, and the capital
                    ships and gunboats.
            The book is based on printed sources and secondary works; the inclusion of manuscript materials would
                    have greatly increased its importance. Many scholars will be skeptical of the reliability of the
                    book because of the author's failure to provide footnotes to the sources he has used.
            
                    West Virginia University
                
            John Anthony Caruso
         
         
            
               Letters of the Lewis and Clark Expedition, with Related Documents, 1783-1854.
                    Edited by Donald 
                        Jackson
                    . (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1962. Pp. xxi, 728. End map, illustrations, appendixes,
                    bibliography, index. $10.00.)
            There is a flavor in these letters of the Lewis and Clark expedition that intrigues this reviewer.
                    They contain the same air of awe, wonder, and pride in things freshly seen that he remembers having
                    expressed in his own mid-twentieth-century messages from the banks of the  Missouri River to friends left behind in Indiana. Although in his
                    letters the Chinese pheasant replaces the buffalo described by the explorers, the sky remains clear,
                    the river long, the plains wide, and the mountains tall.
            The letters and related documents cover a period of seventy years. Earliest in time is Thomas
                    Jefferson's pessimistic inquiry of 1783 to George Rogers Clark as to whether the latter
                    would be interested in leading a party to explore the country "from the Mississippi to 
                        California
                    "; the latest is an 1854 affidavit of Patrick Gass, survivor of the famous
                    exploration. Research students, Lewis and Clark buffs, and present inhabitants of the country
                    described will find here worthwhile supplements to the much-perused journals of the expedition.
                    Realizing that letters from the frontier were usually published in the eastern newspapers, their
                    writers often included more narrative, detail, and explanation than one might expect to find in
                    private correspondence. The editorial notes are well done and should be helpful to all types of
                    readers.
            Four values to be obtained from a patient reading of these papers should be mentioned. First, a
                    scattering of new information is provided in such special fields as financing. Second, the larger
                    purpose of the journey becomes even more apparent from the letters than from the
                    expedition's journals. It is clear that the sponsors envisioned far more than a mere
                    exploration of the area recently purchased from 
                        France
                    ; they were interested in the lands to the west of that area, as well. A third fruit of
                    these letters is an increased realization of the prime role of President Jefferson in the
                    expedition. Finally, this collection brings out clearly the cordial relationship between Lewis and
                    Clark which survived all temptations toward disharmony.
            
                    University of 
                            South Dakota
                        
               
                
            Cedric Cummins
         
         
            
               Manifest Destiny and Mission in American History: A Reinterpretation. By
                    Frederick Merk. (
                        New York
                    : Alfred A. Knopf, 1963. Pp. ix, 266, xi. Notes, index. $5.95.)
            Historians have long differed over the meaning, the significance, and even the existence of the
                    American phenomenon of expansion called Manifest Destiny. Since the concept of Manifest Destiny did
                    encompass the acquisition of territory by conquest, some critics have called it aggression under the
                    guise of pious sentiment, or merely an American form of imperialism. Some sensitive historians have
                    defended the doctrine, saying that American expansion despoiled no one unjustly. Samuel F. Bemis,
                    for example, has called it "Manifest Opportunity." Not long ago, on the other
                    hand, N#2 A. Graebner, in his book Empire on the Pacific (1955), virtually denied
                    the existence of Manifest Destiny as a calculated expansionist movement. Now Frederick Merk,
                    professor emeritus of American history, 
                        Harvard
                     University, has come along with a reinterpretation not only of Manifest Destiny-which
                    he insists was a force that existed in American politics with believers in every section of the
                    nation and in all levels of intelligence-but also of scholarly opinion regarding various aspects of
                    American expansionism in the nineteenth century.
            
            Basing his analysis on a wide use of newspaper editorials, speeches in the Congress, and campaign
                    oratory, and also on diaries and private correspondence, Merk calls this a study in public opinion.
                    He admits that his tools of measurement may not be precise but maintains that they are nonetheless
                    valid for his purpose—the study of expansionist agitation. Even though the expansionist
                    fervor of the 1890's is analyzed, most of the book deals with the period of the
                    1840's, the era to which the author has devoted many years of his scholarly career.
            As might be expected from a mature scholar dealing with the area of his acknowledged competence, this
                    book bristles with shrewd insights, revisions of past interpretations, and provocative new
                    interpretations. Merk's views are woven into two main themes: the desire of some
                    expansionists to extend the nation's boundaries over the entire North American continent,
                    particularly during the 1840's, and the relationship of this expansionist agitation to the
                    surge to the Pacific. In the era of James K. Polk, in fact, Merk sees two levels of expansionist
                    agitation, that which sought the entire continent and that which wanted only a shoreline on the
                    Pacific. He admits, however, that in this period Manifest Destiny meant expansion ordained by heaven
                    over an area not clearly defined, hence the latitude for the varying interpretations of this
                    doctrine.
            The author contends that since slogans serve politicians, historians should not slight them. As a
                    slogan, he says, Manifest Destiny served Polk well. It was a factor in the territorial advance to
                    the Pacific. Merk also points out that Manifest Destiny was the product of many forces, and
                    challenges the view that it was an expression of nationalism. The era of the 1840's, he
                    asserts, exhibited little nationalism. Powerful among the forces comprising Manifest Destiny, he
                    maintains, was the doctrine of states' rights, for which expansionists had a strong taste.
                    Because Manifest Destiny did not reflect the national spirit, it gained little support, even at the
                    outset. It never acquired national, sectional, or party following commensurate with its bigness.
            On the other hand, Merk recognizes nationalism as an element in the New Manifest Destiny, which he
                    calls the imperialism of the 1890's. He argues that this imperialism was not merely a
                    variant of the ideology of the 1840's; indeed, the expansionism of the 1890's was
                    the antithesis of Manifest Destiny. The expansionism of the 1890's was insular,
                    imperialistic, and involved the acquisition of colonial subjects. In the 1840's
                    expansionism was continental and offered the conquered the equality implicit in statehood. According
                    to this thesis, "Manifest Destiny and imperialism were traps into which the nation was led
                    in 1846 and in 1899, and from which it extricated itself as well as it could afterward" (p.
                    261).
            In Merk's view—his major thesis in fact—a truer expression of the
                    national spirit was the concept of America's Mission. This ideal of Mission, meaning that
                    America was the light of liberty for Europe, indeed for the world, was present from the beginning of
                    American history and still lives, whereas Manifest Destiny expired at the end of the nineteenth
                    century. Although this sense of Mission to redeem the Old World by setting a high example of freedom
                    in the New was idealistic and Manifest Destiny seemed selfish, the two concepts were linked in the
                    nineteenth century. If Manifest Destiny were fulfilled and American freedom spread itself over the
                    entire continent, then the  light of liberty would be a brighter
                    guide than ever for the peoples of the Old World. Mission, it is claimed, later broke the link and
                    even curbed the crusading, aggressive expansionism of Manifest Destiny.
            However one looks at it, this is an important book. Its ideas, whether or not one accepts them, are
                    challenging. Despite the many excellent features in this study and regardless of the explanation in
                    the preface, one questions the wisdom of even so capable a historian as Professor Merk in placing
                    long undigested quotations from his sources throughout the narrative. One wonders, too, why he chose
                    to overlook the writings of Professor Graebner which bear directly on this subject. Nonetheless, all
                    students of history, and particularly those interested in the development of national character and
                    the ideas of American diplomacy, should be grateful to Professor Merk for bringing together the
                    thinking and scholarship of many years in this fine volume. He has given us what may now be
                    considered the major interpretive work on the subject.
            
                    University of 
                     California, Santa Barbara
                  
               
                
            Alexander DeConde
         
         
            
               The Tolerant Populists: Kansas Populism and Nativism. By Walter T. K. Nugent. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1963. Pp. x, 256. Notes, bibliographical note, index. $6.00.)
            In almost every important respect The Tolerant Populists is an ideal monograph. The
                    author has brought his problem into a sharp focus and has stated it clearly. In addition to using a
                    broad range of manuscript, pamphlet, and archival source materials, he has sought "to
                    sample newspapers representing every area, faction, ethnic group, or special viewpoint, if it
                    existed in print, that related to the problem of Populism and nativism or immigrants in any
                    significant way" (p. 246). Finally, he has stated his conclusions clearly and has confined
                    them to the limits of his study and his materials.
            The sharp focus of the book is made clear in the opening sentence of the Preface. It was to
                    investigate "the attitudes of the Populists of Kansas to foreign-born people and to foreign
                    groups and institutions" and "the participation of the foreign-born in the
                    People's or Populist party in Kansas from about 1888 to about 1900." In concluding
                    an analysis of the view of Populism presented in Richard Hofstadter's Age of Reform with
                    the assertion that a corrective is needed, the author contents himself with the hope that his book
                    is Ira step in the right direction." Again, at the conclusion of an historiographical
                    summary that is almost certain to find a place on required reading lists, the limited scope and
                    sharp focus of the study are adumbrated. It is the Kansas Populists that are being studied. The
                    results of the study "apply only to 
                        Kansas
                    ."
            The point of departure for the analysis of the available material is a condensation of what
                    historians, behaviorial scientists, and social critics have written about the Populists. Among
                    others, the names of Lee J. Levinger, Carey Mc Williams, Humphrey J. Desmond, Barbara Miller
                    Solomon, Victor C. Ferkis, Edward A. Shils, and Peter Viereck appear in the text or in the
                    footnotes. More familiar to historians among the recent critics of Populism are Max Lerner, Oscar
                    Handlin, and Richard Hofstadter. The revisers of the revisionists whose articles  receive some attention include 
                        Norman
                     Pollack, C. Vann Woodward, and John Higham. To compress the interpretations of so many
                    and so diverse scholars is a major feat worthy of explicit recognition and is indicative of the
                    growing familiarity of younger historians with the vocabulary and methodology of students in other
                    disciplines.
            Two distillations of the charges levelled at the Populists that appear in widely separated parts of
                    the book may be used to indicate more specifically the problem that Nugent sought to solve. He
                    asserts that on the negative side of the ledger Hofstadter presented the Populists as
                    "conspiracy-minded, nativists, chauvinists and jingoes, anti-Semites, part of a long-time
                    'undercurrent of provincial resentments,' founders of a legacy of virulence, part
                    of a credulous age but more credulous and vicious than their contemporaries, rebellious, suspicious,
                    irrational" (p. 18). In the concluding chapter the criticisms are reduced to five principal
                    ones. "The Populists have been accused of nativism …
                    'conspiracy-mindedness' … anti-Semitism … chauvinism
                    … [and] of selling out their vaunted reform principles" (p. 231). Sandwiched
                    between these summaries the reader will find a meticulous analysis of the Kansas elections during
                    the period 1888-1900. The methodology that is used results in some repetition, but the conclusions
                    are clear. The Kansas Populists are found "not guilty" on all counts in the
                    indictment. Indeed, they appear in a somewhat more favorable light than their contemporaries of
                    other political persuasions. "They were bound together not by common neuroses but by
                    … common democratic and humanitarian ideals, and common wrath at the infringement of
                    them" (p. 242). The Populists of 
                        Kansas
                     "were people who were seeking the solution of concrete economic distress
                    through the instrumentality of a political party" (p. 243).
            In presenting his findings the author stresses the importance of money, land, and transportation
                    problems; depicts the interacting roles of the prohibition and women's suffrage questions;
                    provides a plethora of documentation; indulges in some polysyllabic pyrotechnics; and falls into an
                    occasional error. For example there was no United Lutheran Church of America in the 1880's
                    (p. 68). Finally, the constructive contributions of the book go far beyond the answers to specific
                    questions and assure for it a significant place in the historical literature of Kansas and of
                    Populism.
            
                    University of 
                            Kansas
                        
               
                
            George L. Anderson
         
         
            
               The 
                            United States
                         and the First Hague Peace Conference. By Calvin DeArmond Davis. (
                        Ithaca
                    , N.Y.: Cornell University Press, for the American Historical Association, 1962. Pp.
                    xii, 236. Frontispiece, notes, bibliographical note, index. $5.00.)
            Mr. Davis introduces his work by remarking that "the closing decades of the nineteenth
                    century saw a strange duality in international affairs, for the great powers of the world prepared
                    for war at the same time that they talked ardently about peace" (p. 1). In American foreign
                    relations, the author believes, these two themes came to focus in the First Hague Peace Conference
                    of 1899.
            
            After setting the scene and discussing the tsar's rescript of August 24, 1898, which
                    proposed the international conference, the author centers on the American delegation, both official
                    and unofficial. Particularly well done is his treatment of the unofficial American delegates. The
                    personalities of the American Peace Society, the Woman's Christian Temperance Union, and
                    other American peace organizations, who combined with the European pacifists such as the Baroness
                    Bertha von Suttner, Dr. W. Evans Darby, and W. T. Stead to put pressure on the conference, almost
                    come to life. Also well done are the sketches of the American delegates to the conference. The
                    portrayals of Andrew D. White, Captain Alfred T. Mahan, Seth Low, 
                        Stanford
                     Newel, and Captain William R. Crozier are masterful. But it is Frederick W. Holls,
                    secretary of the American delegation, on whom the author calls to supply the drama of the narrative.
                    Mr. Davis describes the trip of Holls and Philipp Zorn of the 
                        German
                     delegation to Berlin to urge a change in 
                        German
                     policy which opposed the English plan "that each signatory government name two
                    jurists to a list, and that from this list parties to an arbitration should choose judges"
                    (p. 148). Holls's exploits after the court convention was ratified, which included trips to
                    Berlin, 
                        Vienna
                    , and St. 
                        Petersburg
                    , are also followed.
            No nation in 1899 was willing to limit armaments, proof for the author of the hypocrisy of many
                    governments, and no general agreement could be reached against use of projectiles thrown from
                    balloons, asphyxiating gas, and unnecessarily cruel bullets. There was still the arbitration court.
                    But Mahan's insistence on traditional American isolationism brought a declaration that
                    American signature of the arbitration convention was not a departure from traditional policies. Mr.
                    Davis believes this proviso weakened the Permanent Court of Arbitration.
            The author finally states that "while one can trace international judicial developments from
                    the First Hague Peace Conference to the present International Court of Justice and believe that the
                    conference of 1899 did mark the beginning of considerable progress, one must conclude that the
                    conference was essentially a failure" (p. 212). In this he is certainly right. The
                    conference produced "paper achievements—masks concealing failure" (p.
                    213).
            One should mention the author's bibliographical note. Students of this period of diplomacy
                    will find his extensive listing of published American, British, and 
                        German
                     diplomatic papers very helpful. Also useful is his listing of the unpublished personal
                    papers of the American delegates and of other statesmen at the turn of the century, the use of which
                    greatly enhanced the value of the study.
            If this Beveridge Award book of 1961 has any flaws it is in the paucity of Russian sources used.
                    Russian scholars may not be satisfied by the author's statement that Yarmolinsky's
                    edition of The Memoirs of Count Witte, "explains the origin of the peace
                    rescript" (p. 219). As Sir Bernard Pares notes on page 18 of The Fall of the
                        Russian Monarchy, "Witte's book is marred by his undisguised personal
                    hostility" to the tsar and also "by a kind of cynical indifference."
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Eugene Paul Trani
         
         
         
            
               The Farm Bureau and the New Deal: A Study of the Making of National Famn Policy,
                        1933-40. By Christiana McFadyen 
                        Campbell
                    . (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1962. Pp. viii, 215. Notes, tables, bibliography, index.
                    $4.75.)
            Increasing farm income was a prominent part of the New Deal effort to lift the nation out of the
                    depression. Increasing farm income had become the major activity of the American Farm Bureau
                    Federation.
            The Farm Bureau had lost some prestige when its efforts to have the McNary-Haugen Bill enacted into
                    law were nullified by presidential vetoes. It had lost some membership when farm prices became
                    extremely low during the depression years. The organization had much to gain in 1933 by supporting a
                    successful national farm program to increase farm income.
            There were difficulties to overcome. The Farm Bureau was beset with sectional differences in
                    objectives. Its membership was low in the South. In her book Mrs. Campbell describes clearly and
                    factually how the organization, under the able leadership of its colorful and sincere president, Ed
                    O'Neal of Albama, was able to surmount these and other obstacles and how the relationship
                    between the Farm Bureau and the New Deal were most cordial during the early years but strained in
                    later years.
            In the Preface the author indicates that a large part of her information came from documents made
                    available to her by the Farm Bureau. She states that she examined these documents "in the
                    spirit of objective scholarship." In the opinion of this reviewer, who had the opportunity
                    to observe at comparatively close range most of the events described therein, Mrs. Campbell wrote
                    the entire book in the same spirit.
            The book sheds much needed light on the causes of the rift between the Farm Bureau and the New Deal.
                    The widely held impression that the rift grew out of deep ideological difference is perhaps due to
                    the fact that in this case, as in nearly all struggles for political or personal power, the
                    ideological differences are overemphasized. The author refers to this struggle for power as
                    involving "many sorts of conflicts, the threads of which are exceedingly tangled"
                    (p. 159). The eight sources of conflict named on page 160 constitute a formidable list.
            There is a suggestion in the next to last paragraph of the book that there was a widening ideological
                    split between the Department of Agriculture, as it turned to the left, and the Farm Bureau, as it
                    turned to the right. However, the book quite properly directs its major attention to differences
                    over administrative and jurisdictional matters. Little or no evidence is presented to indicate that
                    the Farm Bureau turned to the right. Instead it is shown that the organization became more liberal
                    as it came to the support of such New Deal proposals as the Tennessee Valley Authority, reciprocal
                    trade agreements, and anti-monopoly measures. It turned neither to the left nor right in its efforts
                    to increase farm income. "Parity" became a sacred Farm Bureau slogan (p. 114).
            The organization worked diligently in the late 1930's to obtain appropriations which would
                    provide parity payments to farmers "for the  purpose of
                    bringing total market price plus payments up near the parity level" (p. 115). "In
                    order to ensure that support prices should be close to parity, the Farm Bureau was pressing
                    strenuously in 1941 for mandatory commodity loans at 85 percent of parity" (p. 132).
            The book makes clear that in the era it covers there was no deviation by the Farm Bureau from its
                    primary objective of increasing farm income.
            
                    Camden, Indiana
                
            Claude R. Wickard
         
         
            
               Forge of Democracy: The House of Representatives. By Neil MacNeil. (
                        New York
                    : David McKay Company, Inc., 1963. Pp. xi, 496. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $6.75.)
            Neil MacNeil, the chief congressional correspondent for Time, has attempted "to define the
                    House of Representatives … as a living political institution … [in the light
                    of] its own past and traditions" (p. ix). Although he does not plow very deeply the ground
                    he has tried to cover, he has covered it. The result is a neither unentertaining nor uninformative
                    survey of the workings of the House, greatly emphasizing the post-World War II period, treating less
                    extensively the "modern House" from Thomas B. Reed to Sam Rayburn, and referring
                    sporadically to the House's first century of existence. The organization is topical, with a
                    chapter on each of fifteen major aspects of House activity, and with one exception every chapter
                    subject (the speakership, the rules, the lobbies, legislative oversight, relations with President or
                    Senate, etc.) is dealt with topically rather than narratively or chronologically even in a loose
                    sense. The author's sources were in part published monographs and documents, but he relied
                    most heavily on "the distillation of my own daily observation of the House for eight years
                    and of many thousands of conversations with its members" (p. x).
            From such sources and plan flow both the virtues and the defects of the book. MacNeil states clearly
                    where the House's rights and duties are unique, and where they must co-ordinate with the
                    President and the Senate. He enlivens his discussion of the speakership, and indeed his whole book,
                    by focussing on such giants as Henry 
                        Clay
                    , Reed, "Uncle Joe" Cannon, Nicholas Longworth, and Rayburn. He
                    describes the evolution of the "political" speakers (i.e.,
                    speakers who saw themselves as more than parliamentary functionaries) and agrees with them that to a
                    great degree the strength of the House depends on the strength of the speaker. Powers, procedures,
                    and rules of the whole House and its agencies are outlined clearly. What is perhaps the
                    book's most useful section, however, is the thirty-six-page narrative, really an excursus
                    from the author's general plan, describing the battle in 1961 between Rayburn and Howard
                    Smith over enlarging the Rules Committee.
            Although this is a book largely without theses, the few that the author has are in some cases
                    questionable. Today's House, he says, restrains the more "liberal"
                    President and Senate because they are subject to "bullet-vote" pressures from
                    urban minority groups in populous states (p. 38). Even if this is in some sense an explanation of
                    the situation, there are surely other reasons for it. Also questionable is the repeated view that,
                    only since Woodrow Wilson's or Theodore 
                    Roosevelt's incursions has the President become as he is today, the usual initiator of
                    legislative programs. With the conclusions that the House has been useful, hard-working, and subject
                    to change no one would argue. On too many historical points the author is unfortunately incautious,
                    oversimple, or mistaken. For example, did Speaker Henry Clay indeed force President James 
                        Madison
                     into war in 1812 against the latter's will (p. 25)? Did Theodore Roosevelt
                    "singlehandedly settle the Russo-Japanese War of 1904" (p. 239)? And William
                    Jennings Bryan did not appear at the 
                        Chicago
                     Democratic convention in 1896 "an unknown man" (p. 316).
            Perhaps it is summary enough to point out that MacNeil's strongest chapters, in this
                    reviewer's opinion, deal with very recent events or intra-House arrangements (such as the
                    1961 Rules Committee fight, or the informal "clubs" and blocs among the members),
                    and his weakest chapter is the most broadly historical one (Chapter 2, on the relations of the House
                    to the President and Senate). For an historical comprehension of the House, this book is less than
                    helpful. As a description of the Rayburn and John McCormack periods and a readable account of how
                    the House works, it is useful and informative.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Walter T. K. Nugent
         
         
            
               Generalization in the Writing of History: A Report of the committee on Historical
                        Analgsis of the Social Science Research Council. Edited by Louis Gottschalk. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1963. Pp. xiii, 255. Notes, index. $5.00.)
            Not many historians can avoid being stuffy when called upon to consider such a subject as
                    generalization in the writing of history, and some of the historians involved in this present effort
                    of the Social Science Research Council have turned out essays which they might better have tucked
                    into their desk drawers. The truth is that any historian tries to make his materials say something
                    truthful and important, and that it does not help him to learn, first of all, that it is desirable
                    to do so (he knows that), nor to hear that there are (as the editor, Gottschalk, points out) at
                    least six different types of generalization. One recalls the rather sharp remark of Samuel Eliot
                    Morison during his notable presidential address to the American Historical Association in 1950.
                    Morison told his auditors that he did not believe in courses in historical method. He said that he
                    left the teaching of such courses to those of his colleagues who did not write. There is something
                    artificial about generalizing on generalization—something like the philosophy books on
                    the method of method. It lends itself to tautology, to unduly wise comment, and to a certain amount
                    of presumption. The phrase "practicing historian" recurs in these pages, which
                    seems to say that many historians do not practice and hence cannot enter the temple. This is
                    doubtless pressing the point; one knows what the authors of such essays mean; but there is a
                    generalization here which does not read well.
            The individual essays are of course mixed, as one would expect. Some strike fire, notably that of
                    David M. Potter, as thoughtful an analysis of generalization as one would wish for. Potter is too
                    clever  a person to take himself altogether seriously, and there
                    is humor as well as wisdom in his account of "Explicit Data and Implicit Assumptions in
                    Historical Study." The essays by C#2 G. Starr on problems of ancient history and Arthur F.
                    Wright on Chinese history are of much interest. Roy F. Nichols looks again at the causes of the
                    Civil War, much as the late Howard K. Beale did in the old Social Science Research Council Bulletin
                    64, that staple of graduate students of a generation ago. But for the most part the other essays
                    range from fair to poor. Robert R. Palmer's essay shows this first-rate scholar's
                    embarrassment at answering questions about his method: everything stands out stiffly in passive
                    voice. The essay by Walter P. Metzger gets off into what seem to be irrelevancies, although it is
                    learned and intelligent about them. William O. Aydelotte's essay does not raise this
                    reviewer's curiosity. The editor has a knack of killing interest in any subject he
                    discusses. Martin Klein's bibliography seems superfluous-what does one do with all these
                    titles? The most common essay of all is by Thomas C. Cochran, who wrote some odd information about
                    social role.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Robert H. Ferrell
         
         
            
               Old Textbooks. By John A, Nietz. (
                        Pittsburgh
                    : University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 1961. Pp. vii, 364. Tables, illustrations, notes, index. $6.00.)
            
               Old Textbooks by John A. Nietz, emeritus professor of education at the University
                    of 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , is a textbook in itself. It could not be described as "light
                    reading" for the purpose of amusement, but is an authoritative study of subjects taught in
                    the common schools from Colonial times up to 1900. As a teacher of the history of education, the
                    author became interested in collecting old textbooks and consequently became an authority on their
                    treatment and coverage, as well as on the subtle transitions that took place over the years. His own
                    collection consists of eight thousand books (the Nietz Collection), but his research led him to
                    various additional reference sources through libraries and other collections.
            The study of these old books reveals much about the manners and morals prevalent during each period
                    represented. Chapters describing textbooks for spelling, grammar, reading, arithmetic, geography,
                    history, government, physiology, and penmanship, art, and music are included. It seems superfluous
                    to add that a book of equal size and significance could be written on textbooks since that period,
                    as our civilization and culture have broadened and the demands for special knowledge have increased
                    and such subjects as the sciences, foreign languages, vocational and business training (to mention
                    only a few) have been added to the curricula.
            Until 1900, however, education was basically involved with the "three
                    R's." McGuffey's Readers remained the most outstanding
                    for half a century and are still viewed with nostalgia by many. They were not only textbooks in the
                    strictest sense, but they moralized and even "preached" a bit. Among arithmetic
                    books, Thomas Dilworth's The Schoolmaster's Assistant: Being a
                        Compendium of Arithmetic both Practical and Theoretical (1773) appears to have been widely
                    used.  It is generally believed that the content of mathematics
                    textbooks has changed less through the years than that in any other field, although the presentation
                    has varied greatly. The third "R" will be well remembered by many for the Palmer
                    Method, with its careful execution in free-flowing style and the hours of practice required to
                    master it.
            Physiologies, in the earliest days, were too technical for students not directly interested in
                    medicine itself. Depending on the point of view of the writer (usually a doctor), and what he
                    considered important, texts featured the skeleton, the nervous system, the circulatory system, or
                    other technical matters far beyond the comprehension of the average young student. It
                    wasn't until later that hygiene, diet, and physical exercise for general well-being were
                    written for the younger pupil in common school.
            Many songbooks were compiled—but the school band or orchestra which now renders the
                    classics competently had not yet evolved. But glee clubs and choruses which attempted as much as
                    three-part harmony were beginning to appear.
            A work such as this, involving all the realms of subject matter, is a study of the times (the drill,
                    concentration, heavy stressing of matters perhaps no longer important in modern living, poor grading
                    for certain age groups apparent within certain areas, the featuring of morality and religion that
                    seeped through the pages). The book is a vital contribution the study of our own history.
            
                    Indiana Department of Public Instruction
                
            William E. Wilson
         
         
            Indexes to Books on Indiana and 
                        Indianapolis
                    
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Public Library still has available a limited number of copies of the following three
                    indexes published in 1939 as a result of work completed by Works Project Administration personnel
                    under direction of the Chief of the Reference Department, 
                        Indianapolis
                     Public Library. All copies are boxed and unbound.
            
               Consolidated Index to 32 Histories of 
                            Indianapolis
                         and Indiana. (363 1.) (18 copies available at $6.50 each.)
            
               Index to Jacob Piatt Dunn, Greater 
                            Indianapolis
                        . (116 1.) (15 copies available at $2.50 each.)
            
               Index to Jacob Piatt Dunn, Indiana and Indianans. (197 1.) (4 copies available at
                    $5.00 each.)
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Abstracts of the Records of the Society of Friends in Indiana, Part One. Edited by
                    Willard Heiss. Encyclopedia of American 
                            Quaker
                         Genealogy, Vol. VII. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1962. Pp. xxxiv, 305. Paperbound, $7.50;
                    clothbound, $10.00.) Although the Quakers have never been a numerous element in
                    Indiana's population, they have been a significant one from territorial days. Since they
                    tended to dominate settlement in particular sections of the state, 
                        Quaker
                     neighborhoods often resulted. This situation made it easier than it would otherwise
                    have been for them to keep and preserve records about church membership, births, deaths, marriages,
                    church expulsions, removals, etc. In this volume Willard Heiss offers an abstract of records of four
                    monthly meetings in Wayne and Union counties. The book has its own particular
                    "genealogy," but, having discovered numerous errors in previous efforts concerning 
                        Quaker
                     records, the editor decided upon a new beginning. According to Heiss, the records of
                    all 
                        Quaker
                     monthly meetings in Indiana are to be published, hopefully within the next four or five
                    years. The Introduction offers concise information about the development of the Society of Friends
                    in the 
                        United States
                    , the growth of the Society in Indiana, church government and
                    "meetings," records kept by Quakers, and related items.
            
               The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period, 1815-1840. Two volumes. By R. Carlyle Buley.
                    Reprint. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1963. Pp. xiii, 632; viii, 686. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    bibliographical essay, index. $17.50.) In 1950 the Indiana Historical Society published
                        The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period, 1815-1840 in two large volumes. The book
                    won widespread acclaim and made Professor Buley the first Pulitzer Prize winner on the Indiana
                    University faculty. The volumes were reprinted in 1951 by the Indiana University Press and are now
                    being reissued by the press. The Old Northwest may be read with pleasure and
                    profit by the general reader as well as by professional historians. Interestingly written, replete
                    with valuable quotations, illustrated with pictures and sketches, and supported by generous
                    documentation, The Old Northwest has already become an indispensable source for
                    the history of the Middle West in general as well as for the individual territories and states
                    carved from the Northwest Territory.
            
               The State Universities and Democracy. By Allan Nevins. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1962. Pp. vii, 171. Notes, appendix, index.
                    $2.95.) Professor Nevins offers a very favorable discussion of the development and
                    contribution of land-grant colleges and universities "with special attention to their
                    services to democracy" (p. vii). According to Nevins, these institutions helped give a
                    "deathblow to the narrow program of classical studies" of the pre-Civil War era,
                    lift agriculture and various trades to professional status, give education in agriculture and
                    engineering a scientific character of high standing, 
                    "make coeducation a standard feature of American academic life, and to divorce university
                    work from religious trammels" (p. 110). The material presented is highly interpretative and
                    apparently is based largely on secondary works. The diversity of university names is such that
                    Nevins can perhaps readily be forgiven for thrice referring to Indiana University as the University
                    of Indiana (pp. 40, 99, 121), but his statement that in 1787 the nation authorized two townships of
                    land to each new state for a university is unsupported by documentation and is apparently in error
                    (p. 28).
            
               A History of Steamboating on the Upper Missouri River. By William E. Lass. (
                        Lincoln
                    : University of Nebraska Press, 1962. Pp. xiv, 215. Illustrations, maps, tables, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $5.50.) This study of steamboating on the Missouri covers the period
                    from its beginnings in 1819 to 1936 when it ceased as a large-scale commercial enterprise.
                    Lass's volume is mainly concerned with the use of steamboats on the Upper Missouri between
                    Sioux City and Fort 
                        Benton
                    . Attention is given to the geological background of the Missouri basin, the obstacles
                    and perils involved in navigating the river, the traffic carried, the impact of railroads and how
                    they caused steamboat navigation to move upstream as they advanced into the valley, and the role of
                    the federal government in fostering and regulating steamboats on the 
                        Missouri
                    . Particularly interesting are the explanations about why there were usually two annual
                    rises in the Missouri River and why the Missouri required a different type of steamboat and boatman
                    from those used on the Ohio and Mississippi rivers. During the 1930's,
                    the federal government began to erect dams along the Missouri to control floods, encourage
                    irrigation, and provide power production. But since such dams were without locks, they brought more
                    than a century of navigation of the Missouri from 
                        St. Louis
                     to Fort Benton to an end. This readable volume includes useful maps and illustrations.
            
               Indiana Votes: Election Returns for 
                            United States
                         Representative; Election Returns for State General Assembly, 1922-1958.
                    Compiled and edited by Wayne L. Francis and Sharron E. Doerner. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Bureau of Government Research, 1962. Pp. 115. Maps, tables.
                    Paperbound.) This is the second volume of a series concerning Indiana election returns; the initial
                    volume—on gubernatorial elections (1852-1956) and 
                        United States
                     senatorial elections (1914-1958)—Appeared in 1960. According to the
                    Foreword, a volume giving election returns for Indiana for 1960 and another covering Hoosier
                    presidential elections since 1836 will soon be published. Fortunately the punch cards from which
                    this series is being developed by the Bureau of Government Research are being preserved, and
                    duplicates thereof may be obtained, at minimum cost, from the Bureau. Persons using this series will
                    often wish it included more explanatory and interpretive material, but the virtual exclusion of such
                    material is doubtless wise. By supplying the facts in an accurate manner, the bureau makes it
                    possible for students and citizens to draw their own conclusions from these facts. This series
                    regarding Indiana election  returns, plus the recently published
                    volume on Indiana Election Returns, 1816-1851 (
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1960), by the Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is a boon to the study and understanding of Indiana politics from pioneer days to the
                    present.
            
               Since Emancipation: A Short History of Indiana Negroes, 1868-1963. By Emma Lou
                    Thornbrough. ([
                        Indianapolis
                    ]: Indiana Division, American Negro Emancipation Centennial Authority, [19631. Pp. ix,
                    98. Bibliographical note. Paperbound, $2.00.) Since Emancipation is a brief history of
                    the Negro in Indiana from territorial days, but with emphasis on the century since emancipation.
                    Apparently written mainly for the general reader, it recounts persistent and often unsuccessful
                    efforts to attain full civil and political rights for Negroes, notes population trends and
                    residential patterns regarding Negroes, relates the status and recent progress of Negroes in the
                    field of education and in the economy of the state, and reviews varied efforts to reduce and
                    eliminate racial discrimination. The book is written in a readable and convincing manner. At times,
                    however, actual situations have been less uniform and more varied than here indicated.
            
               Indiana Public Affairs Notes, V (May-June, 1963), published by the Bureau of
                    Government Research at Indiana University, presents a case study in inter-library cooperation in
                    Grant, 
                        Huntington
                    , and Miami counties, Indiana, written by Professor John E. Stoner of the Indiana
                    University Department of Government. This item is a byproduct of a larger study concerning
                    cooperative efforts of two or more local governmental units involving various governmental services
                    and functions. It should be of particular interest to librarians and persons associated with library
                    management, but it poses questions and indicates possible solutions which should be of interest to
                    citizens generally.
            
               Here Is Your Indiana Government. Eleventh edition revised. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana State Chamber of Commerce, 1963. Pp. vi, 144. Tables, charts, illustrations,
                    appendix, index. Paperbound, $1.25.) The first edition of Here Is Your
                        Indiana Government appeared in 1944. In introducing it, Clarence A. Jackson, then executive
                    vice president of the Indiana State Chamber of Commerce, wrote: "Constant research in the
                    functions and operation of government is one of the responsibilities of the Indiana State Chamber of
                    Commerce. In conducting these studies, we have found a need for a source of organized and
                    simplified—yet detailed—information concerning Indiana's maze of
                    governmental offices and bodies. To answer that need this book is published." Successive
                    editions have continued to meet that need. The eleventh edition includes the customary features and
                    summary information which have made this publication useful to adults and students in all sections
                    of the state. In addition, it includes helpful and concise information about the legislative
                    reapportionment situation in Indiana in mid-1963.
            
            
               Early Cattle Marks of 
                            Allen County
                        , Indiana, 1824-1877. Compiled by Cleo Goff Wilkens. Old Fort
                    News, XXVI (April-June, 1963). (
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Ind.: 
                        Allen County
                    -
                        Fort Wayne
                     Historical Society, 1963. Pp. 49. Illustrations, index. Paperbound.) This issue of the
                    Old Fort News contains more than five hundred "cattle marks" for 
                        Allen County
                    . Arranged by townships, it indicates dates for the marks, the names of persons marking
                    cattle, and both describes and illustrates the marks. In the Foreword Mrs. Wilkens states that the
                    record here reproduced was obtained from a register of cattle marks in 
                        Allen County
                     located in the county recorder's office. The use of such markings for cattle
                    seems to have been common in Indiana in pioneer days and even subsequent thereto, but apparently the
                    practice decreased as fencing became adequate.
            
               Gold and Diamonds in Indiana. By W. S. Blatchley. Reprint. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana Department of Conservation, Geological Survey. Pp. 11-47. Illustrations, maps.
                    Paperbound, 30¢.) Blatchley's study of Gold and Diamonds in Indiana first
                    appeared in an annual report of the Indiana Department of Geology and Natural Resources in 1903.
                    From the 1830's (when David Dale Owen began systematic geological surveying in Indiana), to
                    the present, geologists have repeatedly indicated that Indiana has only negligible quantities of
                    gold and diamonds and that this extremely limited supply was dumped by glaciers from 
                        Canada
                    . Both have occasionally been found, however, and the decision to reprint the only
                    comprehensive report on the subject was prompted by frequent enquiries about places to search. Two
                    useful supplemental maps have been added: one indicates places in Indiana where gold and diamonds
                    have been found; the other illustrates the gold-prospecting areas in 
                        Brown
                     and Morgan counties.
            
               Early American Wooden Ware & Other Kitchen Utensils. By Mary Earle
                    Gould. (Rutland, Vt.: Charles E. Tuttle Company, Inc., 1962. Pp. xii, 243. Illustrations, index.
                    $8.60.) This is a revised and enlarged edition of a volume which first appeared in 1942.
                    Its numerous illustrations are interesting and valuable to students of American history as well as
                    to collectors of American wooden ware. Miss Gould has made an important contribution to her topic,
                    and in doing so she has revealed much about American life before the age of wood was succeeded by
                    the age of metals and plastics.
            
               Nettie Fowler McCormick: Profile of an American Philanthropist. By Charles O.
                    Burgess. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , for the Department of History, University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1962. Pp. vii, 88. Notes, appendix, index. $3.00.) This small volume is a
                    study of the philanthropic activities of the wife of Cyrus Hall McCormick. According to the
                    author's Foreword, Mrs. McCormick—herself the recipient of charity as an orphan
                    child—donated about $8,000,000 to individuals and institutions during the
                    thirty-four years prior to her death in 1923. The summary tables in the appendix indicate that most
                    of Mrs. McCormick's donations went to education and the Presbyterian church.
            
            
               Indiana through the Years. By Beatrice B. Fitzpatrick; edited by James L. Rooker. ([
                        Indianapolis
                    ]: E. C. Seale & Company, Inc., 1962. Pp. 117. Illustrations, index.
                    $2.25.) A readable and interesting book on Indiana history is much needed for use in the
                    fourth and fifth grades of Indiana schools, and this one has some desirable features: it has a
                    number of helpful sketches and illustrations; it uses a simple narrative approach which includes
                    interesting and relevant biographical sketches; it gives attention to economic and social history as
                    well as to political and constitutional developments; and it considers history important and worthy
                    of study as a separate subject but one which includes important material from government, geography,
                    economics, and related fields. On the other hand, the content of the volume needs to be reviewed and
                    improved: material concerning Indiana since the pioneer era is inadequate; its scholarship is
                    unfortunately not as accurate or complete as it should be.
            
               A Guide to Historic Sites in 
                            Connecticut
                        . By Litchfield Associates. (
                        Middletown
                    , Conn.: Wesleyan University Press, for the Connecticut Historical Commission, 1963.
                    Unpaged. Illustrations, map. Paperbound, $1.50.) Here is a useful and interesting guide
                    to historic sites in the Nutmeg State. Fortunately, it is selective in its coverage, but the
                    annotated list of principal sites at the end of the booklet indicates a wealth of historic places in 
                        Connecticut
                    . The value of this publication is enhanced by a number of good illustrations, but the
                    map which is included is of little value to persons wanting to visit historic sites in 
                        Connecticut
                    .
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
