
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 49, Issue 4, pages 353-466. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:49+issue:4+year:1953&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Fusion Out of Confusion, 1854
            
                    Roger H. Van Bolt*
               
                
            As the year 1854 opened, an Indiana correspondent of the Western
                        Christian Advocate wrote: "Our Wealth is now rapidly
                    increasing and our railroads are waking up every Poor Old Rip Van Winkle in the
                    land. The Methodists are rich people in Indiana, and their whole country is
                    growing so rapidly that they will become immensely wealthy in a few short years
                    more. The whole system of things is passing away, and for one, I say let it go;
                    give us the new life of the new age; let us feel the impulse of a new power, the
                    forerunners of the millenium. Away with the old fogies…. To work is
                    the way to live and to go to heaven. To make plenty money and keep it, it is
                    soul suicide; to be lazy and not make any is soul and body suicide; to make it
                    and scatter it in blessings over our earth, is sober, Christian, God like
                    action. This is an age of works. One reform produces another."1
            
            There were indeed signs of progress. 
                        Indianapolis
                     was now a city of 15,000 people, with eight railroads completed to
                    it. Its Union Station attracted the attention of visitors, for "the
                    sight of four locomotives abreast in it was a sight worth seeing."2
            
            Even before the news came from 
                        Washington
                     that Stephen A. Douglas had reopened the sectional case, the coming
                    political season promised to be a "sight worth seeing," too.
                    The party factions were lining up abreast to await the outcome 
                  
                     * Roger H. Van Bolt is Historical
                            Research Specialist, Henry Ford Museum and Greenfield Village, Dearborn,
                            Michigan. This article is a chapter of his Ph.D. dissertation at the
                            University of 
                                Chicago
                            , 1950, written under the direction of Avery O. Craven.
                  
                     1
                            Western Christian Advocate, January 4, 1854.
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., January 25, 1854.
               
                     of political developments that promised to
                    interest Indianians.
            On January 11, 1854, the State Temperance Convention opened at the Masonic Hall
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                     with a meeting that filled the hall to overflowing. Temperance
                    conventions had been held many times before, but this one outdid all the former
                    gatherings. The need for a strong prohibitory law to follow the ill-fated law of
                    1853 had aroused the temperance advocates to renewed vigor.
            To fit their demands, the 
                        Maine
                     law type of legislation seemed to be the most suitable. The
                    convention did not go so far as to inaugurate a new party, as had been feared;
                    it did declare that it would support only those parties that would make
                    temperance an issue, thus putting the matter directly in the laps of the
                    politicians. The resolutions of the convention called upon the churches for
                    support, declaring that it was the duty of the ministers of the Gospel to
                    interest themselves in the progress of the cause, and to bring the subject
                    before their respective congregations "as often as they can make it
                        convenient."3
            
            The organization of the temperance convention was significant in revealing the
                    party affiliations of the delegates. The state central committee, appointed by
                    the state convention for the purpose of organizing county meetings, was composed
                    of two Democrats and three Whigs. The permanent organization of the state
                    convention itself also cut across existing party lines. The President, Bishop
                    Edward R. Ames, was a Democrat and a Methodist. On the list of vice presidents
                    was Henry L. Ellsworth of 
                        Lafayette
                    , king of the speculators in northern Indiana, a Free Soil Democrat,
                    and a former commissioner of patents. James Blake of 
                        Indianapolis
                     was an old settler of that city, long active in the temperance
                    reform as it evolved in the Methodist Church; a director of railroads and a
                    merchant, he had been a prime mover of the colonization society and for years
                    was president of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Benevolent Society. Chauncey Carter of 
                        Logansport
                    , born in 
                        Connecticut
                    , had been a surveyor for the federal government; in 1847, he was
                    appointed superintendent of the 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Erie
                     Canal. Stearns Fisher of 
                        Wabash County
                     was a Whig and Baptist; born in 
                        Vermont
                    , 
                  
                     3
                            Indiana State Sentinel, January 16, 1854.
               
                     this gentleman was a guiding light on the
                    State Board of Agriculture. T. J. Sample of 
                        Delaware
                     County in northern Indiana, a Methodist, had cast his first vote
                    for John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams and had followed the party thereafter. A. Freeman of 
                        Valparaiso
                     was a Democrat and a Methodist; his political positions included
                    that of swamp land commissioner for the state. A. C. Stevenson of 
                        Putnam
                     County was a Whig, another leader in the agricultural societies,
                    and delegate to the constitutional convention of 1851.4
                    These, all vice presidents, had supported many causes and been in numerous
                    political battles in the past. They possessed the qualifications necessary to
                    make something of the temperance movement, even if it required creating a new
                    party. Many of them were to return to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in July to lend their support to a fusion of the politically
                    disgruntled.
            The fact that so many of the leaders of the convention were Democrats brought
                    from the Democratic Sentinel the cry that the convention was a
                    Whig scheme to break up the Democracy. There seems to have been some
                    justification for concern. Suspecting danger to their party, the Browns, editors
                    of the Sentinel, on the day of the convention had warned their
                    readers: "There are interested partisans who are pleased with any
                    movement tending to the discomforture of the dominant party in this State. A strong interest is to be subserved by the defeat of the
                        nominations of the Democratic party."5
                At
                    least one party member tried to make the resolutions more palatable to the
                    Democracy; he urged the delegates to remove the "search and
                    seizure" clause from the completed provisions. He was talked down,
                    however. It was clear that the delegates did not intend to soften the attack on
                    the liquor interests.
            Following the state convention came meetings of the county assemblies, which
                    adopted resolutions similar to those of the parent body. The convention in 
                        Rush County
                     asked the existing parties to nominate temperance men, declaring
                        
                  
                     4
                            A Biographical History of Eminent and Self-Made Men of the
                                State of Indiana (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1880), District 7, p. 1; ibid, 102; ibid., District 10, p. 14; ibid.,
                            District 11, p. 16; ibid., District 6, p. 75; ibid., District 10, p. 18; Paul Wallace Gates,
                            "Hoosier Cattle Kings," Indiana Magazine
                                of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), XLIV (1948), 1-24; Jacob P. Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1910), I, 391; Indiana Daily Sentinel,
                            January 12, 1854.
                  
                     5
                            Indiana State Sentinel, January 11, 1854.
               
                     that if its wishes were not followed the
                    temperance advocates would bring to the canvass independent candidates.6
            
            The growing temperance movement in Indiana was not part of a deliberate action to
                    form a new political party, yet it developed certain features that made it
                    resemble a political organization. There had been many temperance conventions
                    before this time, but they had been held under the auspices of local temperance
                    groups, organized at a local level, as, for example, the Washingtonians or the
                    Sons of Temperance. There had been evidences of the church sanctioning political
                    reform, as in the resolutions of the Methodist conferences. But this January,
                    1854, state convention was not sponsored by the Methodist Church, despite the
                    fact that the Western Christian Advocate reported that it
                    appeared as if the whole Methodist, Church was present at the convention.7 If nothing else, the movement had all the appurtenances
                    necessary for the formation of an organization that could express itself upon
                    political issues. All this took place before the old parties met in May.
            The temperance issue was hard put in its attempts to hold the center of the
                    public stage, but the movement continued to roll along as more county
                    conventions met during the months following the state conclave. A correspondent
                    of the Whig Journal lined up the cause with the forces of good
                    when he wrote: "The spirit of Righteousness, Freedom, and Temperance is
                    one spirit, and that of Wickedness, Slavery, and Drunkenness is the
                        other."8 The growing political connotations of
                    temperance were kept before the eyes of the party leaders, giving them much
                    concern in the months before their conventions were to be held. Por example, a
                    constituent, S. L. Ensley, wrote to Governor Joseph A. Wright warning him that
                    he must hold with the temperance cause, even though the Sentinel had come out against the resolutions of the state temperance
                    convention. Ensley claimed that there were as many temperance Democrats as
                    Whigs, and that "Old Bill 
                        Brown
                    " was wrong in the stand the Sentinel
                    
                  
                     6
                            
                                Rushville
                            
                            Republican, March 8. 1854. cited in Charles Zimmerman,
                            "The Origin and Rise of the Republican Party in Indiana, from
                            1854 to 1860." Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XIII (1917), 215.
                  
                     7
                            Western Christian Advocate, January 18, 1854.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Morning Journal, February 9, 1854.
               
                     had taken. He warned that the editor would
                    get a "stab" that would last for years.9
            
            The danger of splitting the party was apparent to many, since the issue cut
                    across party lines. The Sentinel, however, continued to warn
                    the threatening insurgents: "If Whiggery and Abolitionism can throw in
                    the Temperance question as an auxiliary to aid them in electing a Whig
                    legislature, they will achieve a triumph by the aid of temperance Democrats,
                    which their political principles can never command."10
            
            As the time for the Democratic convention neared, a journal as influential as the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier predicted that the prohibitory liquor law would be the
                    foundation; on which the canvass in October would rise or fall. M. C. Garber,
                    the editor, wrote: "The people appear to have taken sides; the
                    politicians do not know exactly what to do in the premises…. The
                    Temperance men stand with the balance of power in their hands."11
            
            The temperance advocates—Whig, Democrat, Methodist—made up
                    a sizeable group, able to unite in sympathy for a cause and to use the threat of
                    a bolt from local parties to secure their goals of reform. This threat spelled
                    trouble for the politicians, who preferred to choose their own weapons in a
                    campaign. They had to face the fact that the reformers were determined that the
                    candidates should be considered primarily according to their temperance stand.
                    In view of these conditions, even the proprietors of
                    "Harris’ Panorama of Intemperance and Crime"
                    promised to remain in Indiana at least until election day in October.12
            
            While the press of Indiana was reporting the activities of the temperance
                    advocates, it also was finishing a long story, that of the Freeman case. In
                    January, 1854, Calvin Fletcher, cashier of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     branch of the State Bank, was receiving remittances from those who
                    desired to aid an 
                        Indianapolis
                     free Negro to pay the expenses of his fight against the Fugitive
                    Slave Law.13 This fund-raising campaign was the anticlimax
                    to the affair. The Reverend 
                  
                     9 S. L. Ensley to Joseph A. Wright, 
                                Annapolis
                            , Indiana, February 24, 1854, Joseph A. Wright Papers,
                            Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     10
                            Indiana State Sentinel, March 14, 1854.
                  
                     11
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, April 18, 1854.
                  
                     12
                            Western Christian Advocate, March 29, 1854.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., January 25, 1854.
               
                     Pleasant Ellington of 
                        Kentucky
                     had claimed that John Freeman of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a free Negro, was in reality Sam, his escaped slave. The trial had
                    turned into a farce when the real Sam was found in 
                        Canada
                     and Freeman's former owner arrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 
                        Georgia
                     to identify the accused man, who was forthwith freed.
            After his acquittal, at the instigation of those who sought to extend the case,
                    the Negro sued his false accuser and won his case. Then he brought charges
                    against John L. Robinson, the 
                        United States
                     marshal. In his complaints, Freeman charged that he had been
                    assaulted and had been exposed to being carried into slavery by fraud and
                    perjury. Further, he had been the victim of extortion to the sum of three
                    dollars per day during his imprisonment. Thus, until it ended in 1855, the case
                    continued to keep the aggravating Fugitive Slave Law constantly in the public
                    eye.
            Those who came forward to aid Freeman in his defense included an impressive
                    number of leading citizens. The note which was drawn to support the bail for
                    Freeman was signed by one hundred citizens of different parties. Among the
                    signers were Judge Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , the dean of Indiana's legal profession; William W. Wick,
                    postmaster and ex-congressman who had figured prominently in the politics of the
                    late forties; Calvin Fletcher, a leading citizen, reformer, and banker; and N.
                    B. Palmer, life-long Democrat, and railroad president.14 A
                    bond for four thousand dollars was also signed by a number of citizens who owned
                    more than a half million dollars worth of property. The men of property and
                    standing in the community, regardless of party, felt called upon to act not only
                    in behalf of the free Negro but also in protest against the working of a law, a
                    law that had been administered almost too well. For this reason, Robinson, the
                    marshal, became a whipping boy, the symbol of the slaveholder seeking to recover
                    his reputed property and the embodiment of all that was evil in the Fugitive
                    Slave Law. The 
                        Madison
                    
                    Banner commented: "Ellington and his men may have a
                    motive, but none can be seen for Robinson, unless it be a natural hate of
                    justice or a penurious desire to obtain the five dollars he will lose if Freeman
                    is not returned to 
                  
                     14 Berry R. Sulgrove, History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion County
                                , Indiana (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1884), 215, 169.
               
                     slavery." The Indiana
                        Democrat also vehemently attacked the marshal by comparing him to the
                    infamous Haynau in 
                        Austria
                    .
            The Freeman case, with its many injustices, probably harmed the Democratic party,
                    since it aroused many who had previously been somewhat indifferent about the
                    question of slavery. Robinson was also connected in the public mind with the
                    Democracy, to the detriment of the party, for he became known as "The
                    Ellington Watch Dog,"15 and, more significantly, as
                    the Democracy's "watch dog" in the state.
            While the state capital was agog with temperance and the Fugitive Slave Law, down
                    in 
                        Dearborn County
                    , in February, 1854, the first council of the Know-Nothings was
                    formed. At first relatively unnoticed, the movement reached the communities of
                    southern and central Indiana during March and April. Diamond-shaped pieces of
                    paper scattered about streets and pasted on doors of public buildings announced
                    the presence of new councils. The Democratic editors almost immediately saw
                    Know-Nothingism as a rehashing of nativism and attacked it as a Whig plot to
                    bring disaster to the Democracy. As it gained momentum, the movement gained
                    strength and picked up new leaders. Soon it attracted such men as Godlove Orth,
                    Richard W. Thompson, and Schuyler Colfax, all of them Whigs, into its
                    membership. By May, three months after the appearance of the order in the state,
                    it claimed thirty thousand members in Indiana.16
            
            Those whom the Know-Nothings decried were aroused by the movement. Early in the
                    year, the Germans met in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which was rapidly becoming a center for this immigrant group. Most
                    of the 
                        German
                     population of Indiana had found its way into the state as an
                    overflow from 
                        Cincinnati
                    , so that 
                  Lawrenceburg, Terre
                        Haute, Madison
               , Evans-ville, and New 
                        Albany
                     were chief centers for the 
                        German
                     population of Indiana. More Germans were scattered about the
                    farming areas of southern Indiana, with a particularly large group in 
                        Dubois County
                    . They were a small minority in the total population, since the
                    number of foreign-born in 1850 amounted to only 28,000 persons out of a total of
                        
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 185.
                  
                     16 Carl F. Brand, "The History of the
                            Know Nothing Party in Indiana," Indiana Magazine
                                of History, XVIII (1922), 58-61.
               
                     600,000. Yet, along with all the other
                    changes occurring in Indiana, there was an increase in thd number of foreign
                    immigrants.
            The Germans who had arrived early in the state were led by the editor of the
                    Democratic Indiana Volksblatt, founded in 1847. The new Freie Presse, founded in 1850, advocated the cause of the more
                    recent arrivals, the "forty-eighters." The newer group was
                    accused by the Volksblatt of stirring up antagonisms against
                    all the Germans: "For all their [the newcomers] lunacies they soon
                    found worthy organs in the 
                        German
                     Press, which through their clamor contributed not a little to turn
                    the attention of the Nativistic Party to their obnoxious principles, and in its
                    hands they became weapons against us all!"17
            
            The Germans in Indiana, in 1854, were divided between two groups: the older
                    settlers were under the domination of the Democrats; the newer arrivals seemed
                    to be followers of such leaders as Karl Heinzen, then of 
                        Louisville
                    , and Frederick Hausserak of 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Externally, they were caught between two movements: attacked by
                    the rising Know-Nothings on one hand, their socia'l habits were
                    assaulted by the temperance advocates on the other. Both the nativ-ists and the
                    anti-liquor forces were driving them closer to the Democracy; at the same time,
                    through its 
                        Nebraska
                     stand, the party was forcing the Germans away from itself.
            A last but not unimportant event to worry the people of Indiana before convention
                    time was the run on the state's free banks, which took place in May.
                    These financial institutions, which had been established by the politicians in
                    1852 and had mushroomed overnight in the state, were hard-pressed when eastern
                    banks, hit by the financial crisis resulting from the Crimean War, began ta
                    redeem their paper currency. Governor Wright forced the hand of one of the new
                    banks by ordering the treasurer of the state to test the solvency of a 
                        Terre Haute
                     bank by presenting paper for redemption in the name of the state.
                    When the bank "squatted," in the vernacular of the day, it
                    brought on a full-fledged bank run. The result was that the free banks were
                    forced to close their doors. The governor was accused by 
                  
                     17
                            Indiana Volksblatt, March 31, 1855, quoted in Dunn,
                                Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , I, 204.
               
                     his political enemies of accepting funds
                    from the old state banks men to carry out this design. The financial crisis
                    created new enmities among the politicians, and contributed to the general state
                    of confusion.18
            
            The political year promised to be an interesting one even without the slavery
                    extension issue. The Hoosier Democracy had trouble at home which threatened to
                    upset the state party: temperance, anti-Fugitive Slave Law excitement, nativism,
                    and the banking crisis all provoked political controversy. The political stew
                    was boiling vigorously when into the pot was thrown the issue of slavery
                    extension. The resulting concoction had an over-powering
                    flavor—anti-Democracy.
            When the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     bill was introduced in Congress in January, 1854, some of the
                    Indiana delegates felt called upon to state their views; others remained in the
                    background. The first to speak was William H. English, who, after the
                    introduction of the bill, arose on the floor to state what he termed to be his
                    objections to it. He complained of the proposed boundaries of the territory.
                    Then, unlike some of his colleagues, he declared that he was unafraid to
                    "face the music" on the subject of slavery. He wanted the
                    people of the territories to regulate their affairs in their own way.
                    Furthermore, he desired that the section repealing the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise be stricken from the, bill. English declared:
                    "If the act of 1820 was superseded by the act of 1850, why repeal the
                    former?" In his. proposed amendment, English would repeal
                    "so much of any existing act of Congress as may conflict with the right
                    of the people to regulate their domestic institutions in their own
                        way."19
            
            In the next month, Daniel Mace, Democratic congressman, expressed his views. The 
                        Lafayette
                     member, unlike English, was opposed to the bill in its entirety. He
                    had been elected, he claimed, because of the finality resolutions of the
                    Democratic party.20
            
            
               
                  18 Maurice O'Rear Ross, "An Analysis
                        of Commercial Banking in the State of Indiana" (Ph.D. dissertation,
                        Departmenti of History, The University of 
                            Chicago
                        , 1936), 68; Logan Esarey, "State Banking in Indiana,
                        1814-1873," Indiana University Studies (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1910-), I (1910-1913), 284.
               
                  19
                        Congressional Globe, 33 Cong., 1st Sess., 295.
               
                  20
                        Ibid., Appendix, 163.
            
            
            In the initial discussion of the bill in the Senate, Jesse Bright remained
                    silent, but John Pettit approved the act in a speech. He claimed he saw nothing
                    sacred in the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise and had no sickly sympathy with the Negro.
                    "Cupidity and not philanthropy," he declared, "has
                    dictated the course which the North has pursued in reference to this
                    matter." Pass the bill and it would forever end the slavery agitation,
                    he maintained.21 The remaining Indiana congressmen were
                    silent until May, when the bill came up for discussion again.
            Meanwhile, the Indiana politicians in 
                        Washington
                     conferred among themselves and with their constituents regarding
                    their relative positions in this situation. Many were obviously perplexed by the
                    sudden turn of events. At the very time that English was stating his objections
                    to the bill, Jesse Bright penned a note to him from the Senate chamber: 
                  
                     
                        "I am almost as much interested in your political
                                    positions & future success as yourself. Hence, you will
                                    pardon me for venturing to advise you not at this
                                        time to go into Caucus or make any committals against
                                    the Bills now before Congress for the organization for
                                    territories. I know the value of the advise I
                                    give Go to your friends for council always,
                                    not your enemies."22
                        
                     
                  
               Bright no doubt feared that his protégé was
                    drifting from the path.
            In Indiana, John L. Robinson, displeased with English's original speech
                    on the bill and hoping that his objections were in some way susceptible to
                    change, wrote the congressman: 
                  
                     
                        "It is important that we all stand together on that
                                        bill."23
                        
                     
                  
                John B. Norman of New 
                        Albany
                    , editor and politician, also wrote to English a revealing letter,
                    which was representative of the original impact of Douglas’ bill,
                    before the issue had been kicked from pillar to post. He wrote: 
                  
                     
                        "It seems to me the 
                                        Nebraska
                                     bill is a very ill-advised scheme and ought not to
                                    have been introduced. I do not think the South asks the
                                    annulment of the 
                                        Missouri
                                     Compromise, or think it will thank Douglas for
                                    introducing his proviso to 
                              
                                 21
                                            Ibid., Appendix, 212-221.
                              
                                 22 "Some Letters of Jesse
                                            D. Bright to William H. English," Indiana Magazine of History, XXX (1934), 381.
                              
                                 23 John L. Robinson to William H.
                                            English, 
                                                Rushville
                                            , Indiana, February 6, 1854, English
                                            Collection, Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            .
                           
                                     that effect…. It
                                    is certainly new to many that the Compromise of 1850 was
                                    intended as an annulment of that of 1820. Certainly no such
                                    avowal was made at the time that compromise was
                                    pending…. His wholesale denunciation of the opponents
                                    of this bill as ‘abolitionists’ and nigger
                                    sympathizers will avail him but little, People are not to be
                                    frightened from their propriety by such epithets now-a-days,
                                    whatever may have been their effect a few years
                                        since."24
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            Daniel Mace, who had spoken out against the bill, was also interested on the one
                    hand in the reactions of his constituents and, on the other, in setting his
                    course right. The congressman wrote to the editor of the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier expressing his intention to oppose the Democracy on
                    this issue. He called it a violation of a plighted faith and claimed that such a
                    bill would shut out his constituents from the new territories.25 Robinson warned that 
                  
                     
                        "Mace has despoiled his property"
                     
                  
                by his letter on the 
                        Nebraska
                     bill.26
            
            E. M. Chamberlain, congressman from the tenth district, wrote to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal that he was going to stand on the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise.
            Andrew J. Harlan, also from northern Indiana, informed his constituents that he
                    could not reconcile the Kamsas-
                        Nebraska
                     bill with the national Democratic platform of 1852: "One
                    great objection is the bringing of slave labor in competition with the free
                    labor and industry of my own race. The degrading and debasing consequences that
                    naturally grow up between free and slave labor is a strong, reason for my
                        opposition."27 Later the perturbed Harlan wrote
                    to Daniel Pratt, a friend at home, that he would probably be slaughtered for
                    going against the 
                        Nebraska
                     bill, but duty and honor demanded that he do it.28
            
            
               
                  24 John B. Norman to W. H. English, New 
                            Albany
                        , Indiana, February 8, 1854, ibid.
               
               
                  25
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Morning Journal, February 11, 1854. The Sentinel gladly printed those letters from Democrats who
                        repudiated Mace's leadership. See Indiana State
                            Sentinel, February 17, 20, 1854.
               
                  26 J. L. Robinson to W. H. English, 
                            Rushville
                        , February 20, 1855, English Collection.
               
                  27
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Journal, March 18, 1854, cited in Zimmerman, "The
                        Origin and Rise of the Republican Party in Indiana from 1854 to
                        1860," Indiana Magazine of History, XIII, 222.
               
                  28 A. J. Harlan to D. D. Pratt, 
                            Washington
                        , April 18, 1854, Pratt Collection, Indiana State
                    Library.
            
            
            James H. Lane of the fourth district in southern Indiana wrote to 
                        Brown
                     of the Sentinel. His denunciations of the bill
                    centered about the Clayton amendment. He concluded: "How far shall we
                    go to humor our southern friends, and what effect will the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     compromise restriction have upon the slavery
                        agitation?"29 Lane sent
                    Mace's anti-
                        Nebraska
                     speeches under his own frank about the district.30
            
            Thus, after the proposition had been introduced, the politicians did not know
                    whether to approve or disapprove it. The bill had not been discussed in the
                    canvass and the Hoosier politicians fumbled about, seeking the line of action
                    that would satisfy the constituents. Bright in 
                        Washington
                     and Robinson in Indiana must have done yeoman service in lining up
                    the stragglers.
            The political whips had work to do and public opinion had to be measured before
                    the final bill came up for passage. The political editors of Indiana immediately
                    took the stage to arouse public opinion. Through the columns of the Journal, John Defrees began his campaign against the Democracy of the
                    state and nation—he spoke of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise as a "sacred compact." Schuyler Colfax
                    began to talk of Douglas’ "shameful" bid for the
                    presidency, and of "the conspirators against freedom."31
            
            The Sentinel, under the leadership of William J. Brown, who had
                    been too antislavery to suit Jesse Bright years before, now became the leading
                    spokesmaq for the Democracy. It labeled "abolitionist" all
                    those who opposed the bill or refused to pledge complete loyalty to the
                    Democracy. "The organization of every new territory is a God send to
                    fanatical abolitionism. It opens a new field for slavery agitation; and enables
                    them to rake up the dying embers of sectional strife."32 For the Sentinel, there was no middle road. In this
                    respect, its policy was much like that of the leader of the Hoosier Democracy,
                    Jesse Bright.
            
               
                  29
                        Indiana State Sentinel, March 24, 1854.
               
                  30 J. L. Robinson to W. H. English, 
                            Rushville
                        , February 26, 1854, English Collection.
               
                  31 Willard H. Smith, "Schuyler Colfax and the
                        Political Upheaval of 1854-1855," 
                     
                                Mississippi Valley
                             Historical Review (Cedar Rapids, 
                            Iowa
                        , 1914-), XXVIII (1941-1942), 384-385.
               
                  32
                        Indiana State Sentinel, February 3, 10, 20, 1854.
            
            
            When the church leaders of Indiana, also, became interested in the 
                        Nebraska
                     issue, the mouthpiece of the Democrats hurled vehement charges at
                    the clergy. They had no business in politics, was the view of William J. Brown.
                    The clergymen were "called" to preach the Gospel:
                    "‘Go ye into all the world and preach the Gospel to every
                    creature.’ Query—does this special mission embrace matters
                    connected with the 
                        Nebraska
                     discussion, or any political object whatever! Have clergymen a
                    license to speak in His Name, upon any and all subjects which may come under
                    their notice?"33
            
            Soon after, 
                        Brown
                     issued another Mast at the ministers who had been turning
                    "their sacred desks into political rostrums." He accused the
                    preachers of being ignorant politically. Their task was to call the sinners from
                    the darkness while Congress would settle the affairs of the nation.34
            
            The Sentinel had stirred up another hornet's nest, for
                    the Western Christian Advocate soon answered the charges,
                    lining 
                        Brown
                     up with Satan when it reported: "The devil is mightily
                    pleased with such non-intervention, and he has so long had politics &
                    political men in his keeping that he does not want any
                    interference now."35
            
            Other Democratic editors rushed headlong into the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     tumult. Some papers stood with their local representative in
                    Congress, such as the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier which supported Mace's attacks on the 
                        Nebraska
                     issue. The editor warned that it would be party suicide to make it
                    B Democratic measure in the coming state convention of the Democracy.36
            
            The allies of William R. Ellis of the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier were formidable opponents. William Ellis’
                    brother, E. W. H. Ellis, was a long-time editor of the 
                        Goshen
                    
                    Democrat. The Ellises had supported the Wright faction of the
                    party and in Jesse Bright's eyes were not "Honest
                    Democrats." In 
                        Madison
                    , M. C. Garber and the Courier roared out against
                    the 
                        Nebraska
                     outrage. Garber had lost face with the old liners three years
                    before. Page Chapman had left journalism for a time, but before long he was
                    again writing editorials 
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., March 25, 1854.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., March 28, 1854.
                  
                     35
                            Western Christian Advocate, April 5, 1854.
                  
                     36
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Courier, October, 1852, quoted in A very Craven, The Coming of the Civil War (
                                New York
                            , 1942), 324.
               
                     for Chapman's
                        Chanticleer, founded by his son a short time before the political
                    excitement of 1854. Chapman had also been opposed to the regulars before, and
                    Bright had placed him on the outside. Since that time Chapman, too, had aided
                    the Wright faction. These influential editors had all been either read out of
                    the party by Bright or had fallen away from the sharp line of party regularity
                    before 1854. Thus their opposition to the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act could not have been a surprise either to the politicians or the
                    people. It would be difficult to interpret the stand these editors took as a
                    concerted spontaneous reaction within the Democracy, since they were no longer
                    members in good standing with the administrative wing of the state party.37
            
            The press, which was a powerful medium in spreading far and wide the iniquities
                    of the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise as well as the political and moral crimes of the
                    Democracy, was aided by the somewhat sporadic meetings that took place all over
                    the state. Indianians generally needed little prodding to attend a gathering of
                    fellow citizens. The reason for the meeting was often unimportannt to those who
                    attended, but once there they could be aroused to heights of enthusiasm and
                    emotional fervor by a local spell-binder. The winter of: 1854 seems to have been
                    a particularly good revival season. The Western Christian
                    Advocate had to reduce its editorial columns to allow more space for the
                    reprting of revivals. Temperance conventions, as has been noted above, were held
                    in many counties during the early winter. The advent of the railroads which
                    converged on 
                        Indianapolis
                     made it possible for many of the citizens to travel about the state
                    in the "cars" with comparative ease. There were many who could
                    spend the day in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and return to farm or village at the close of the day. When the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     meetings came, they fitted easily into the scene as an additional
                    excuse to bring Hoosiers together.
            Some of the temperance conventions were turned into anti-
                        Nebraska
                     meetings of a sort. John L. Robinson revealed how this was done
                    when he wrote: 
                  
                     
                        "The opponents of 
                              
                                 37 Compare the view of Logan
                                            Esarey, History of Indiana (2d ed., 2
                                            vols., 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1918), 11, 638, who attached importance to
                                            the wholesale defection of these important editors as
                                            significant of change brought about by the 
                                                Kansas
                                            -
                                                Nebraska
                                             Act. The political change had begun years
                                            before.
                           
                                     the 
                                        Nebraska
                                     bill are busy secretly and stealthily circulating
                                    petitions; they are uniformly found either in the hands of open
                                    abolitionists or [?] Whigs. They seized the occasion
                                    of the 22nd at the county ‘Temperance
                                    Convention’ to circulate them."38
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            The old antislavery men were given a new lease on their political life and such
                    men as Cassius 
                        Clay
                     of 
                        Kentucky
                     and Stephen S. Harding of Indiana spoke at meetings in the state.
            Finally, there was the action of the churches. The Methodists, as the largest
                    single denomination in Indiana, attacked the politicians from the pulpit. Other
                    denominations were also active. Conferences, presbyteries, and meetings, as a
                    matter of church business, passed resolutions denouncing the actions of Douglas.
                    The line between church and state was drawn extremely thin.
            Whether instigated by politicians or nonpoliticians, the meetings added fuel to
                    the fire of political excitement. The numbers alone were significant, but of
                    more importance, perhaps, was the fact that they did not have unified
                    leadership. The Whigs were reluctant to take the lead, and the leadership fell
                    to the disgruntled members of several groups. They did, however, have a common
                    goal—they were anti-
                        Nebraska
                     and against its supporters, the Democracy.
            Annoyed politicians, crusading preachers, and local reformers of Indiana
                    crystallized this uprising of the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     men. The common citizen, however, who absorbed the stock of stump
                    clichés of the spell-binding politicians and the haranguing editors,
                    had some political opinions of his own. This fact gave the pyramid of discontent
                    a popular basis which cut across party boundaries. Popular feeling meant little
                    to the politician unless it would change ballots. The mixing of the
                    ingredients—electoral behavior and the element of
                    protest—did concern him. One observer, writing to his congressman,
                    described the situation thus: 
                  
                     
                        "In a word, then, the Douglas bill (as it is understood
                                    out west here), is exciting no little interest….
                                    Personally I have not the remotest idea that any part of the New
                                    Territory aluded to would ever become slave states even were the restrictions 
                              
                                 38 John L. Robinson to William H.
                                            English, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , February 24, 1854, English
                                        Collection.
                           
                                     of the 1820 act withdrawn.
                                    But the people will not view it in that light….
                                    Nothing will work so readily & profoundly, you know, on
                                    the minds of the ms of the people as a real or imagined effort
                                    to restrict the area of Freedom."39
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            In the midst of all these chaotic outpourings of politicians, editors, and
                    citizens, it was rapidly becoming more difficult for Indiana to stand on the
                    great middle ground that Governor Wright had proclaimed in his flights of
                    oratory; yet he continued to sing out the theme that Indiana was the heart of
                    the Republic. At a meeting which he attended in March with the governor of 
                        Kentucky
                    , Jo Wright delivered a speech that sounded similar to those he had
                    given in 1850. He stressed the community of interest between the peoples of the
                    two states: "In this valley, thank heaven, we have no men who go to bed
                    simmering, and rise in the morning boiling with rage about northern rights and
                    southern rights. Here we sit quietly under the shade of our mighty oaks, each
                    state attending to its municipal government…. Kentuckians and
                    Indianians teach their children that this Union consists of something more than
                    iron mills and factories in the north, and cotton bales and sugar farms in the
                    south." In a burst of enthusiasm, he announced: "Peace dwells
                    in this Valley."40
            
            But there was no peace within the states of the 
                        Ohio River Valley
                     even as the Governor spoke, for their political representatives
                    were finding it difficult to select a proper course of action. The initial shock
                    of 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     was being shaken off in Congress and the Indiana delegation was
                    lining up with the Democracy, while politicians at home were preparing for the
                    state conventions.
            In the Senate in 
                        Washington
                    , Bright and Pettit had both supported the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     bill from the first; but in the House, the threatening insurgency
                    in the Hoosier delegation was being put down. James H. Lane, who had at first
                    expressed his- dissatisfaction, was reputed to have been flooded with petitions
                    from his constituents. In addition, he was prodded by the leaders of the party.
                    As the 
                  
                     39 A. B. Archer to William H. English, February
                            23, 1854, English Collection.
                  
                     40
                            Indiana State Sentinel, March 4, 1854.
               
                     time for balloting neared, the congressman
                    from southern Indiana fell into line after Pettit in the Senate supported the
                        measure.41 English's opposition was
                    short-lived, and in May he was taunting his colleagues for deserting the
                    principles of General Cass.42 Although Cyrus Dunham deplored
                    the renewal of the agitation of the subject of slavery, he supported the
                    measure. He feared that it would "breathe the breath of life into the
                    almost dead body of the Whig party." When the people understood the
                    bill, the excitement would be hushed as it had been in 1850.43 The other congressmen who were about to cast their votes for the bill
                    remained silent in debate.
            When the vote in the Senate came, on March 4, both Indiana senators supported the
                    measure. In the House, when ten Indiana representatives voted on May 22, only
                    two anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats voted—A. J. Harlan and Daniel Mace. E. M.
                    Chamberlain was detained at home. Samuel Parker, the Whig, also joined the
                        opposition.44 The Indiana Democrats had given majority
                    support to the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     bill; the final division was seven Indiana congressmen in favor of
                    the measure, four opposed to it.
            The winter and spring had produced a considerable degree of rank growth on the
                    party vines of the Democracy. In May, at convention time, the keepers of the
                    party had the choice of either pruning or supporting the lateral branches of
                    this plant, which was being stimulated by a fertile mixture of reform, religion,
                    discontent, and opportunism. The Democracy, as the remaining major party, had
                    the opportunity to draw to itself the increasing number of isms and at the same
                    time gather up the loose remnants that sought a political outlet for their
                    demands but were reluctant to break away and enter the race for ballots
                    independently. Any program that would accomplish both these tasks—of
                    incorporating new materials and tightening the bonds of the old—would
                    of necessity have to be unusual in its approach, just as the political
                    unconformities that had 
                  
                     41 Wendell H. Stephenson, The
                                Political Career of James H. Lane, 
                                Kansas
                             State Historical Society Publications (3
                            vols., 
                                Topeka
                            , 1886-1930), III, 38 n.
                  
                     42
                            Congressional Globe, 33d Cong., 1st Sess., 608.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., 1233.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., 1254.
               
                     arisen during the winter of 1854 were
                    unusual. Each excitement had created complications that defied easy solution.
            Along with all these new tensions in the political situation, there were some old
                    ones left over from earlier times. One of these involved Indiana's
                    growth.
            The northern section of the state was growing at a more rapid rate than the old
                    upiland areas which extended away from the 
                        Ohio River
                    . Many of the recently arrived northern Hoosiers were Democrats from 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ; others had moved north from the older settlements of the state.
                    Observing this expanding area, the politicians naturally desired to get for it a
                    more adequate share of party benefits.
            Another region experiencing the same rapid growth was the Whitewater Valley,
                    where the Democracy had first received the spoils of office when George Julian
                    had formed a successful coalition of Free Soilers and regular Democrats in 1848.
                    The Changing population picture brought new optimism to the Democrats,
                    traditionally the minority group of this region.
            Collectively, the growing Democratic strength in the north and in the Whitewater
                    Valley was influencing the political organization of the whole state. Jesse
                    Bright, however, balked at recognizing these changes, showing reluctance at
                    permitting a more equitable distribution of the spoils and offices. Bright had
                    seemingly not forgotten or forgiven the shameless flirtation between the voters
                    of the Upper 
                        Wabash
                     and the Free Soilers. But more important perhaps was that his
                    unflagging antagonist, Jo Wright, had many loyal supporters in this northern
                    area. Bright WM never a party leader to tolerate any divided loyalties. One of
                    his more recent frustrations had been’ the victory of John Pettit of 
                        Lafayette
                     over his personal choice, Graham Fitch, in the senatorial campaign
                    of 1852.
            The local Democratic politicians north of the National Road were becoming uneasy
                    over the changing population picture. A few days before the convention, one of
                    them insisted to those in political control that there should be a fairer
                    distribution of offices over the state. All the present incumbents came from
                    below the National Road or from the  area
                    near it. The northern Democrats, the politician claimed, were regarded as
                    "hewers of wood and drawers of water" for the Democracy.
                    Disgruntled because party spoils were not being distributed in northern Indiana,
                    he accused the party leaders of corruption, specifically charging that the
                    auditor of the state was realizing $30,000 to $40,000
                    "directly and indirectly" from his office.45
            
            Internally, Indiana's development was paralleling that of the nation and
                    producing parallel political problems. In the forties the Northwest had felt
                    neglected, just as did northern Indiana in 1854. At the same time, it was the
                    least developed part of the state although it was growing the most. The
                    comparative political stability of the southern portions of the state had been
                    reached early, as it had in the old South of the nation. Years before, the
                    national leaders of the South had not been willing to trust such party upstarts
                    as Hannegan, Douglas, or Allen. Similarly, Jesse Bright seemed determined to
                    withhold the reigns of power from the upstarts of the state party.
            By 1854, Jesse Bright had made scores of,enemies; but he had also, during the
                    fourteen years of his political career, welded a political machine. With it, the
                    Democracy had withstood the stress and strain of party warfare every year, even
                    seeming to thrive under the annual test. The winter of 1853-54, however, had
                    been a particularly rugged one, and some Democrats were worried. As one of them
                    pointed out: 
                  
                     
                        "the coming canvass must be managed very carefully, and
                                    with unusual skill & energy."46
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            On May 24, 1854, the state Democratic convention met at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The anti-
                        Nebraska
                     wing of the party arrived with little hope of creating a stir. The
                    county conventions had been organized along strict lines, had endorsed the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     bill generally, and then had gone on to oppose "
                        Maine
                     Law" legislation.
            When the resolutions committee brought out the plank in favor of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     bill, Henry L. Ellsworth from 
                        Lafayette
                     and Joseph McDonald from 
                        Lake County
                     arose in protest. The unit rule was then effected and the 
                  
                     45
                            Indiana State Sentinel, May 16, 1854.
                  
                     46 Phineas M. Kent to William H. English, New 
                                Albany
                            , May 17, 1854, English Collection.
               
                     opposition was lost in the voting that
                    followed. Then Ben Edmondson of 
                        Dubois County
                     introduced a resolution which would expel all those who were
                    opposed to the 
                        Nebraska
                     plank. At this, Oliver P. Morton and the others who would not
                    support the resolution walked cut of the convention amid jeers and the taunting
                    cries of "kinkey head" and "go equalize
                        yourself."47 The anti-
                        Nebraska
                     men were then read out of the party.
            The temperance resolution brought more confusion, and even the Sentinel reported that the members "couldn't get
                    together very well" on the resolutions. While the Democratic leaders
                    were willing to admit that intemperance is a great moral and social evil, for
                    the restraint and correction of which legislative interposition is necessary and
                    proper," they were "opposed to any law upon this subject that
                    will authorize the searching for or seizure, confiscation, and destruction of
                    private property."48 This was not enough to satisfy
                    the demands of those who sought more stringent legislation. Men like James Blake
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who had been a leader in the temperance cause, left the party.
            The temperance plank, however, was not a party test; rather, it represented the
                    refusal of the Democracy to allow what it considered a moral issue to enter into
                    the political arena. Those who did not agree with this stand were not pushed out
                    of the party—they left of their own volition. Those who objected to
                    the state planks of the party could still support its national views.
            The Know-Nothings were also criticized in the platform. The convention resolved
                    to "openly and avowedly condemn any organization, secret or otherwise
                    that would aim to disrobe any citizen, native or adopted, of his political,
                    civil or religious liberty."49
            
            Although it did not appear in the platform, an informal plank that resulted in
                    alienating the preachers of the state was brought forth in the convention. John
                    L. Robinson, in his speech before the convention as its chairman, took it upon
                    himself to push the Methodists out of the party. In 
                  
                     47 William Dudley Foulke, Life of
                                Oliver P. Morton (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1898), I, 39.
                  
                     48 W. E. Henry (comp.), State
                                Platforms of the Two Dominant Political Parties in Indiana,
                                1850-1900 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1902), 9.
                  
                            49
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     sarcastic tones, he referred to the
                    ministers as the "3000 Abolitionists sent out of New 
                        England
                    ," and as "non-tax-paying itinerant
                        vagabonds."50
            
            By the time the conventi,on adjourned, the Democrats had somewhat clearly
                    delineated those who could still belong in the ranks.of the party. Rather than
                    make bids for new followers, they had decided which of the existing groups they
                    would carry along with them, and had alienated all others. From 
                        New York
                    , Horace Greeley reported in the Tribune that the
                    Indiana Democratic leaders had done to themselves what their opponents could not
                    do: Jesse Bright had made the 
                        Nebraska
                     and temperance laws the objectives of a party test.51
            
            The Democratic boss and his helpers had pruned away the rank growth of the party
                    vine. It remained to be seen if the remaining branches would bear enough fruit
                    for the October harvest.
            The dictatorial methods of Jesse Bright produced resentment that was bitter and
                    lasting. He had put Democratic orthodoxy to a severe test. Those who had been
                    driven out of the party appealed to principle, claiming that they were the true
                    followers of Democratic doctrine.
            The insurgents who had been cut loose from the Democracy probably reacted in many
                    different ways. Some had been out of favor for many years, and, opportunistic,
                    foresaw political capital in greener fields. Others who had no political
                    ambitions were turned away filled with hatreds and feelings of revenge. The blow
                    was particularly hard to bear by those to whom the Democracy was not only a
                    political group but was also a social institution. They no longer
                    "belonged"; instead they were left to cast about with those
                    they had mercilessly attacked or disdained for so many years. It must have been
                    difficult for those who now found themselves among the disinherited to
                    fraternize with the despicable "wooly heads" or "cold
                    water boys."
            The role of the Wright faction in this process is not clear. It seems, however,
                    that many of his followers fled 
                  
                     50 Esarey, History of Indiana,
                            II, 612.
                  
                     51
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune, June 6, 1854, cited in Helen M. Cavanaugh,
                            "Anti Slavery Sentiment and Politics in the Northwest,
                            1844-1860" (Unpublished Ph.D. dissertation, Department of
                            History, the University of 
                                Chicago
                            , 1938), 103.
               
                     or were excommunicated. Among them were
                    Page Chapman, E. W. H. Ellis, and W. R. Ellis, all editors who had supported the
                    Governor. Wright himself had too much to lose by becoming an anti-
                        Nebraska
                     insurgent. Since the election (of Pierce, he had been able to gain
                    ground on his old rival, Bright. The President had worked through Governor
                    Wright on the matter of patronage, much to Bright's chagrin. The press
                    was thus divided between those who were blessed with patronage in the form of
                    printing, and those who took the "Jesse Bright" side.
            In Indiana politics, however, the actions of Jesse Bright must have given
                    Governor Wright uneasy moments. Both men supported the 
                        Nebraska
                     cause, but the wholesale expulsion of Democrats from the party
                    harmed the Wright faction considerably. In addition to the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     insurgents mentioned above, the temperance advocates who left the
                    party had been supporters of the Governor, who had taken the pledge himself
                    years before. The Methodist Church, which had been the object of
                    Robinson's attack, had also been part and parcel of the
                    Governor's support. In the past, the opposition had frequently
                    delighted themselves in prodding him in the canvass concerning his
                    holier-than-thou bearing. As one of his contemporaries remarked, he did his most
                    effective electioneering within the church.52 When Jchn L.
                    Robinson and Jesse Bright watched the political scene in the summer of 1854,
                    they must have been delighted with the exodus from the party of their moral
                    enemies of long standing, even if the Governor remained.
            Wright himself must have been tempted to join the late departed; but he was to
                    wait until 1861 to join Chapman, Ellis Morton, and others, at which time (he
                    became a Republican.) No!
            A week after the Democratic convention, some of the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     followers were plotting a possible course for the Governor. One
                    reasoned thus: 
                  
                     
                        "The Chapman move against 
                                        Nebraska
                                    , Whiskey, and Infidelity, meets with a harty [sic] Response from all parties if you pursue
                                    a correct 
                              
                                 52 Newton D. Mereness,
                                            "Joseph Albert Wright," Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                                                New York
                                            , 1943), XX, 559-560; William W. Woollen,
                                                Biographical and Historical Sketchs of
                                                Early Indiana (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1883), 103.
                           
                                     course [nonaction] you can
                                    yet put your foot on Bright's neck instead of as he
                                    Says, ‘has his foot on your
                                        neck.‘"53
                        
                     
                  
                The insurgents had hoped that the Governor would be on their side, if
                    not in fact at least in spirit, to their own political advantage. This same
                    correspondent wrote: 
                  
                     
                        "Of late, the 
                                        Nebraska
                                     Party claim you—and the Antis regret it
                                    very much, as they wished to knock Bright's Brains out
                                    with You. This district is largely anti-Democratic, but if in
                                    other places the Party is as much Divid[ed] as they are here, it
                                    will be a total overthrow of the party… if you could
                                    have felt it your Duty to have espoused the Anti 
                                        Nebraska
                                     cause you would have the state at your
                                    control—as it is perhaps you will, doubtful verg doubtful."
                        
                     
                  
                The writer further urged the Governor to take a stand if he were a 
                        Nebraska
                     Democrat.54
            
            The break in the ranks of the Indiana Democrats was not only a split over
                    principles such as slavery and temperance, but it was also a manifestation of a
                    deep-seated factional quarrel, born nlot alone of dissatisfaction within the
                    party, but also of political ambition. When the malcontents threatened to leave
                    the Democracy, Jesse Bright opened the door for them, strengthening his own
                    position. While Jo Wright's friends must have gormed a sizeable number
                    of those who left, he himself remained to battle his enemy Bright. Had he
                    opposed the, 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     bill, he would not have been a Democrat.
            The insurgent groups began to organize almost as soon as they arrived home from
                    the state convention. Meetings were held, not only to protest, but to organize
                    and select candidates for the canvass. The dispossessed—among them
                    Daniel Mace, the congressman, and those political editors who were anti-
                        Nebraska
                    —addressed crowds in many villages and towns in the
                    state. The speakers denied the rights of the so-called "packed
                    convention." At other meetings, these discordant Democrats signed
                    pledges to support only anti-
                        Nebraska
                     men for Congress and only temperance men in state offices. For a 
                        Wabash County
                     meeting, a declaration was made: "The Democracy of 
                        Wabash county
                    
                    know, and 
                     
                        53 John Hunt to Joseph A. Wright, 
                                    Cambridge City
                                , Indiana, June 3, 1854, Wright Papers.
                     
                        54 John Hunt to Joseph A. Wright, 
                                    Cambridge City
                                , Indiana, July 22, 1854, ibid.
                     
                  
                         fear no power that can make them
                        countenance wrong, they work in no party traces under the lash, and swallow
                        no pill compounded by political quacks." They went further,
                    pledging themselves not to support any candidate who did not stand for the
                    repeal of the Fugitive Slave Law.55
            
            Conventions passed resolutions and the insurgent press castigated the Democracy
                    for its attempts to bind and sell the populace to the "slave drivers of
                    the south and the rum seller of the North," but something more was
                    needed for the defeat of the leaders of the regulars. Some Whig papers suggested
                    and supported a plebiscite. Independent Democrats were to put up a ticket and
                    the Whigs were ta do likewise.56
            
            In 
                        Madison
                    , however, under the guidance of M. C. Garber, fusion was suggested.
                    A movement arose for meetings regardless of party. One such meeting, held in
                    June, directed its resolutions at the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Democratic platform, charging that the Democratic party was pledged
                    to the "extension of whiskey;… to the extension of
                    slavery;… to the contraction of religion." Other counties
                    followed this example, appointing delegates to a general meeting to be held in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The Chapmans declared that it was "high time for the WEST
                    to speak for itself."57
            
            The Whig Journal was reluctant, however, to fall in line and
                    publicize the proposed meeting. John Defrees explained his tactics in a letter
                    to the 
                        South Bend
                     editor Schuyler Colfax: "I have been prevailing on others
                    to make the move for a State Convention, preferring that it should come from
                    Democrats, if possible. Had the Journal been the first to
                    move, it would have been set down as a Whig movement…. Efforts must
                    be made to prevent its becoming a failure. Come down, with as many Democrats as
                    you can bring."58
            
            Godlove Orth was more direct in his views. He said simply: 
                  
                     
                        "The signs of the times are propitious and augur 
                              
                                 55
                                            Chapman's Chanticleer, June
                                            15, 1854, cited in Mildred C. Stoler,
                                            "Insurgent Democrats of Indiana and 
                                                Illinois
                                             in 1854," Indiana
                                                Magazine of History, XXXIII (1937), 15; 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            
                                            Morning Journal, June 20, 1854.
                              
                                 56 Stoler, "Insurgent
                                            Democrats of Indiana and 
                                                Illinois
                                             in 1854," Indiana
                                                Magazine of History, XXXIII, 17.
                              
                                 57
                                            Ibid., 17-18.
                              
                                 58 Ovando J. Hollister, Life of Schuyler Colfax (
                                                New York
                                            , 1886), 73 n.
                           
                                     well for the Friends of
                                    Freedom & Temperance…. The Whigs must control
                                    that convention without seeming to do so."59
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            These men belonged to that faction of Whiggery which was willing to abandon the
                    party. Orth and Colfax had long feared the "old Hunkers" in
                    the party. John Defrees was of the same opinion. He justified his actions a few
                    weeks later in a letter to Samuel Judah, for many years a stalwart Indiana Whig,
                    who was reluctant to de-nationalize the old party. Judah was among those who
                    wanted to carry on another campaign; but an insufficient number shared this
                    desire and the party went by default. Defrees, on the other hand, spoke not only
                    for a powerful group of former Whigs but also for a considerable portion of the
                    Fusionists-to-be. He wrote: 
                  
                     
                        "I know that a number of such men as Tom
                                    Dowl-ing… who call themselves ‘National
                                    Whigs’ denounce me and the Journal because I did not
                                    go in for a call for a State Whig Convention and the
                                    organization of the Whig Party, for the present contest. They
                                    abuse me too, because of my opposition to slavery extension and
                                    to Northern Dough-facism.
                        "They are the Union savers, and call
                                    everybody abolitionists who oppose slavery extension I care
                                    nothing for it—I am willing to have my judgement as
                                    to the true policy of the Whigs [?] by the
                                    result—Should we divide the Democracy, any fool ought
                                    to see that it will… be to our benefit hereafter. The
                                        Game will go into our net—It
                                    will have nowhere else to go."60
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            James A. Mason, editor of the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Gazette, objected to scrapping the old Whig party. Not ready
                    to form a sectional party, he asked Defrees: 
                  
                     
                        "Suppose the mongrel organization to triumph. What are
                                    we to do then. Manifestly it is your policy—If you
                                    have any such—to adopt a platform, sufficiently
                                    abolitionized and sufficiently sectional to retain as many votes
                                    as possible. I protest against this— 
                              
                                 59 Godlove Orth to Schuyler
                                            Colfax, 
                                                Lafayette
                                            , Indiana, July 4, 1854, in Herman J.
                                            Schauinger, "Orth, Native American,"
                                                Indiana Magazine of History, XL
                                            (1944), 54.
                              
                                 60 John D. Defrees to Samuel
                                            Judah, September 21, 1854, Judah Papers, Indiana
                                            University Library, 
                                                Bloomington
                                            .
                           
                                     It is giving the lie to the
                                    whole past history of the Whig party."61
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            The somewhat uncertain ground of national interests was becoming dangerous
                    underfoot. The growing sectionalism had pretty well destroyed much of the old
                    inclusiveness of the party. Indiana Whigs had complained years before that their
                    task was to hold their own party together, not to attack the Democracy. When
                    this procedure was repeated in each election, Whiggery slowly destroyed itself.
            Ambitious men like Orth and Colfax, interested in insurance companies, farms, and
                    newspapers, and traditionally distrustful of the old party leaders, must have
                    been uncomfortable among the old Whig lawyer-politicians. By 1854, almost any
                    new organization would have seemed tempting to them, and when the nativist surge
                    struck the Northwest, the Whigs rushed to join the movement. By summer, the
                    Know-Nothings were nailing queer-shaped pieces of paper on courthouses in many
                    county seats in the state. Although the Know-Nothings professed to know no party
                    and to be purely American, one Democratic politician wrote that 
                  
                     
                        "every broken down Whig is trying to avail himself of
                                    the benefits of this association."62
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            From the small beginnings in February, then, the Know-Nothings had scattered into
                    every corner of the state. More important than the rapid growth of the movement,
                    however, was its degree of centralization. This factor in particular worried the
                    political leadership of the state. The nativists were bent on organization and,
                    having welded themselves into a workable unit, were intent on controlling the
                    growing fusionist movement.
            To get in on the ground floor of the July 13 Fusion Convention, the Know-Nothing
                    state council held an organization meeting two days before. A state constitution
                    was reported and adopted, along with a ritual and a set of regulations. Austin
                    H. Brown of the Sentinel climbed to the top of an outbuilding
                    of the Masonic Hall and spied on the meeting until he was discovered. He
                    revealed that several well-known politicians were in the group. They reportedly
                    drew up a list of candidates who were to be presented to the Fusion 
                  
                     61 James A. Mason to J. D. Defrees, Vincennea,
                            Indiana, September 25, 1854, Judah Papers.
                  
                     62 A. Bussey to William H. English, 
                                Laurel
                            , Indiana, July 13, 1854, English Collection.
               
                     Convention the next day. The assembly
                    elected state officers for the coming year. The president was Godlove Orth of 
                        Lafayette
                    , an ardent Whig for many years and a great friend of Schuyler
                    Colfax. James H. Cravens of 
                        Ripley
                     County had been the Free Soil candidate for governor in 1852. He
                    was known far and wide in the state as an abolitionist. The chaplain was the
                    Reverend James Havens, presiding elder of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     district of the Methodist Church. "Father" Havens
                    was then over sixty years of age, a patriarch in the Church who had travelled
                    and exhoPted in revivals throughout the state.63 Another
                    officer was the Reverend Samuel P. Crawford of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . On the 13th of July, the new officers drafted a set of orders
                    which concluded the work of the convention.
            The membership and strength of the organization is relatively unknown. The
                    difficulty in appraising its power would seem to be that many of its members
                    were also equally strong supporters of the other elements that were to make up
                    the Fusionists. Thus only a qualitative significance can be attached to their
                    importance.
            The Know-Nothing state council, however, watched the political developments
                    during the week and represented one of the political factions that was awaiting
                    the call on July 13, anniversary of the founding of the Northwest Territory.
            The citizens of 
                        Indianapolis
                     of all parties joined to make the necessary preparations for the
                    "mass meeting" at the state capital. A huge gathering
                    assembled on the courthouse lawn in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . From 
                        Tippecanoe County
                    , Henry L. Ellsworth led a delegation of six hundred, marching as a
                    body to the grounds. Other groups came, composed of Whigs, disgruntled
                    Democrats, crusading temperance reformers, "Sams" seeking to
                    halt the foreign invasion, the disillusioned and the ambitious, and undoubtedly
                    some who were there simply to enjoy a good political gathering. No one was
                    barred, and all were welcome.
            The permanent chairman was Thomas Smith, former Democratic congressman from
                    southeastern Indiana, and one of the old party's best stump speakers.
                    He was introduced by M. C. Garber of 
                        Madison
                    . The tenor of Smith's keynote 
                  
                     63 William C. Smith, Indiana
                                Miscellany (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1867), 264-285; W. R. Holloway, A Historical
                                and Statistical Sketch of the Railroad City, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1870), 53.
               
                     address was that the masses were ready to
                    pursue their own ideas rather than the dictates’ of party leaders.
                    Others who spoke were the popular Henry S. Lane, confrere of
                    De-frees—the Whig; the Reverend George B.
                    Jocelyn—Methodist preacher; H. L. Ellsworth—Free Soil
                    Democrat; John A. Hendricks—Democrat; and finally, Thomas
                    Bebb—Whig ex-governor of 
                        Ohio
                     and bitter opponent of the Democracy everywhere.64
            
            The flurry of oratory over, the resolutions committee announced its report in the
                    form of a statement, broad enough for all the assemblage to stand upon. This
                    statement was not a platform in the strict sense; rather, it represented a
                    temporary agreement among a group of the politically discontented.
            The content of the People's Statement is worthy of consideration as the
                    initial document of a new, as yet untested, party. The preamble extolled the
                    Northwest Ordinance as a document of freedom and referred to the recent repeal
                    of the eighth section of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise as a "gross and wanton violation of the faith
                    of the Union, plighted to a solemn compact, restricting the extension of
                    Slavery." The four resolutions following the preamble were simple: the
                    first repudiated the Democratic stand "endorsing and approving the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Iniquity," since the committee was
                    "uncompromisingly opposed to the extension of slavery"; the
                    second resolution demanded that all former party predilections be waived in
                    order that every branch of the federal government be filled with men who would
                    assert the rights of freedom, restore the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise, and refuse to tolerate the extension of slavery; the
                    third clause attacked intemperance as a political, moral, and social evil,
                    requiring a "Judicious, Constitutional, and Efficient Prohibitory
                    Law" for the suppression of the liquor traffic; finally, the committee
                    deplored the abusive attacks on the Protestant ministry recently made from
                    "various quarters," continuing: "We cherish with
                    gratitude, and pleasure, 
                  
                     64 Francis P. Weisenburger, The
                                Passing of the Frontier, 1825-1850 (
                                Columbus
                            , 1941), 429-432; Zimmerman, "The Origin and Rise
                            of the Republican Party in Indiana from 1854 to 1860," Indiana Magazine of History, XIII, 234-235; Stoler,
                            "Insurgent Democrats of Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                             in 1864," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XXXIII, 20-21; 
                                Logansport
                            
                            Pharos, July 19, 1854.
               
                     the memory of their patriotic zeal in the
                    Revolutionary struggle." Although it has been said that the platform
                    did not contain a Know-Nothing plank, this fourth resolution could serve as a
                    nativist appeal at the same time that it dealt a blow at the Pope and John L.
                        Robinson.65
            
            In the total picture, the problems of the resolutions committee may be
                    overestimated. It is true that there were divergent groups within this
                    heterogeneous mass of temporarily unattached voters. But the various factions
                    and their leaders did appear to have anti-Democracy as their one definite
                    motivating factor. First of all, every resolution was in specific opposition to
                    the platform or the public views of the Democracy. Although perhaps for
                    different reasons, the Fusionists were united solidly on that score. There was
                    also the factor of overlapping membership within the Fusion-ist factions,
                    meshing the different causes into a general protest group. This is evident in
                    the leaders themselves. Schuyler Colfax was a Whig, Free Soiler, Know-Nothing,
                    temperance man, and Protestant; Lucien Barbour was equally all these things, but
                    he had been a Democrat. Through the rank and file of the new Fusion element
                    similar overlapping existed.
            Despite the one-idea advocates there was a great core that was capable of being
                    organized effectively into a well-knit political group. The various isms
                    themselves had a cohesiveness. They were born of a common parent, the Protestant
                    Church, which had spawned temperance, anti-slavery, and anti-Popery. The members
                    of the church tended to put their religious principles before their politics.
            Lew Wallace, many years later, describing the political scene in the turbulent
                    days of 1854 wrote: "In truth the isms, despised and unassimilated
                    though they were, had fighting force in quantity much greater than we were
                    willing to allow them, and in their midst the old party was like a whale
                    assailed at the same time by many boats harpooning it from every direction; the
                    best it could do was to fluke the water and blow."66
            
            The romantic Hoosier novelist's figure of speech might 
                  
                     65 George W. Julian, Political
                                Recollections (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 144.
                  
                     66 Lew Wallace, Lew Wallace: An
                                Autobiography (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1906), I, 237-238.
               
                     be somewhat altered. The Democracy was
                    indeed a floundering whale, but it was being attacked not from many boats but
                    from one boat with many harpoons. The Democracy's attackers were
                    skilled in han,dling several weapons at once.
            The greatest weapon in the hands of the enemy, however, was the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act. It was a tremendous charge that could be attributed to the
                    Democratic party. Although a political question at the outset, the opponents of
                    the Democrats soon made slavery extension a moral issue. The threatened
                    extension of slavery, whether real or imagined, became in the eyes of many a
                    wicked design of the Democrats to trample upon the rights of free men. Unlike
                    the isms that had grown up gradually giving the people ample time to get used to
                    them, and giving them in turn time to become adapted to the Indiana political
                    climate of 1854, the 
                        Nebraska
                     question was dropped like a bomb into the midst of an unprepared
                    populace. The suddenness of its appearance gave it an immediacy that the other
                    issues lacked.
            The 
                        Nebraska
                     question was a sectional problem, dangerous in its implications for
                    the well-being of the federal process. There had been drunken members of society
                    in Indiana for years. 
                        German
                     and Irish neighbors and Catholic priests had been in the
                    state's villages and towns for varying periods of time; conflicts
                    between these elements and the native Americans ebbed and flowed. Slavery
                    extension had been in the political arena before, but under a different aspect;
                    and when, with a rush, the sectional conflict was reopened with new
                    embellishments, there was an instantaneous reaction.
            When the Fusion party's principles had been established, it chose its
                    candidates for the state ticket. The ticket reflected the general character of
                    the new group for here again most of the candidates were able to qualify under
                    several labels. Very few of them had held office. They were new political
                    figures, free from party sin, able to be presented to the voters of the state as
                    the "people’s" candidates. Nominations for the five
                    state offices were divided among three former Democrats and two Whigs. John
                    Defrees, the old leader of the Whigs, had suggested this division so that the
                    Democratic insurgents could lure more voters away from  the "old liners."67 The ticket, like the platform, was composed of elements that
                    advocated the various isms but had a common enemy, the Democracy.68 What the Sentinel was to call "all the
                    odds and ends of society, politics, and religion," had combined into a
                    political party.69
            
            In their local conventions of July, August, and September, the Fusionists
                    followed the general pattern set at their 
                        Indianapolis
                     convention. In the selection of candidates, they tended to choose
                    those who had been somewhat irregular in their party loyalty and those whose
                    political garments had not been soiled too frequently. Several candidates were
                    novices at the game of politics. Since few had held public office before, they
                    could truly appeal to the voter as a "people's"
                    candidate.
            There were local exceptions, however. In the third district, the first candidate
                    to take the field, John A. Hendricks, a comparatively untried politician, was
                    replaced by George C. Dunn, a Clay Whig, who, unannounced, gathered his old
                    followers about him and forced the younger Hen-dricks to retire from the field.
                    In the Fort Wayne district, Samuel Brenton, who had served in Congress before as
                    a Free Soil Whig, was nominated by the Fusionists.
            The dusty roads of a drought-stricken state were filled that summer with
                    candidates. The campaigns had a new flavor, new arguments, and new fervor, and
                    the hope of a political revolution. The Fusion had as varied a leadership as its
                    factional character. Collectively, they were an impressive lot. They made the
                    most of the excitement of the year. With M. C. Garber's cry that it was
                    "not a disaffection but a revolution," the movement became the
                    aggressor despite the relative inexperience of its organization. The Fusionists
                    forced the Democracy into the defensive, a position it had not occupied for many
                    years. Jesse Bright's brother must have typified the appearance of many
                    of the Democracy's party stalwarts when John Lyle King observed of him: 
                  
                     
                        "He seems dreadfully puzzled as to the results of the
                                    next election and to have an idea that the undercurrents 
                              
                                 67
                                            Indiana State Journal, July 15, 1854.
                              
                                 68
                                            Indiana State Sentinel, July 25, 1854;
                                                Indiana State Journal, July 16,
                                            1854.
                              
                                 69
                                            Indiana State Sentinel, October 26,
                                            1854.
                           
                                     are so mixed and
                                    complicated as to baffle the most prophetic foresight as to
                                        results."70
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            The Methodist Church was a powerful ally of the Fusion-ists in the campaign.
                    Encouraged by the resolution for their benefit in the Fusion platform, the
                    leaders of the church also took the offensive. The Journal
                    aided them by reprinting articles from the Western Christian
                        Advocate which arrayed the church against the Democracy. Bill 
                        Brown
                     and the Sentinel were kept busy denouncing the
                    Methodists: "Has it come to this—must a Democrat relinquish,
                    abandon and repudiate his political principles, dissolve all connection with his
                    political associates, and with his party, before he can be a consistent or
                    esteemed member of any church." The editor, inquiring as to the grounds
                    of the attacks on the Democracy, claimed that the Methodist Church had always
                    received political offices and liberal favors from the party.71
                    
                        Brown
                     apparently considered the Methodist patronage to have been
                    sufficient to keep the members in line.
            The Advocate spoke out often in its columns against those in
                    Indiana who were attacking the church. The Pope, the pro-slavery and pro-liquor
                    advocates, and the devil were all engaged to destroy truth and righteousness
                    from the earth.72 The correspondent, the Reverend B. F.
                    Crary, who also wrote for the Indiana press, led the charge against the
                    Democracy. He described the Democratic platform as "the oldest, lowest,
                    narrowest, ugliest, dirtiest thing that ever was made or seen
                        before."73
            
            The church conferences themselves began to attack the slavery and liquor
                    interests and urged the ministers to go out and preach against the evils of the
                    Democracy. Crary described the Northern Indiana Conference thus: "The
                    preachers are about as spirited and fearless as any body of men that can be
                    found…. They had a committee on slavery, which very coolly brought in
                    a report that in other places would have produced spasms in the body
                    ecclesiastic. 
                  
                     70 John Lyle King, June 26, 1854, Diaries, Indiana
                            Historical Society Library.
                  
                     71
                            Indiana State Sentinel, June 23, 1854.
                  
                     72
                            Western Christian Advocate, June 21, 28, July 5, 1854.
                  
                     73
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, St. Joseph's Valley
                                Register, August 10, 1854, quoted in Smith, "Schuyler
                            Colfax and the Political Upheaval of 1854-1855," 
                        
                                    Mississippi Valley
                                 Historical Review, XXVIII, 390.
               
                     Here they did not excite the preachers.
                    They seemed as clever and temperate and cool about it as they would if
                    discussing the subject of education…. They did not talk much but
                    voted unanimously…. They may be all wrong; but how to cure them this
                    deponent is not able to tell. They are not of a sort to get well of a complaint
                    of that kind in a day. They have got it into their heads, somehow or other that
                    they have a, right to speak, and there they stand, and smile, and talk daggers
                    at the peculiar institution."74
            
            During the campaign, the Democracy's castigation of the Methodist
                    preachers resulted in a counterattack that gave additional weight to the concept
                    that the campaign wa+s a battle of good against evil. The Democracy
                    was not prepared to have its party lined up on the wrong side of the moral
                    fence; nevertheless it found itself forced to defend what some Hoosiers
                    considered sin.
            The Democracy in the campaign found itself a party of justification. Lew Wallace
                    described the Democratic canvass as a campaign of "dodge, denial,
                    deprecation or begging the question.75 The isms had all
                    converged on the Democracy, so that the party, hounded on all sides, resorted to
                    a choice barrage of name-calling. It had been much easier to match political
                    wits with the ruffle-shirted Whigs in the old days. The Democratic stump orators
                    had to attack in all directions, at enemies old, new, and unseen.
            The Democratic attacks varied locally in proportion to the strength of the
                    various elements in the opposition. In the back country of southern Indiana,
                    William H. English, who was to become a near political monstrosity—a 
                        Nebraska
                     Democrat who survived the election—defended his support
                    of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act by telling his constituents that he had discarded narrow
                    sectional prejudices to give everyone a voice in making the laws under which he
                    was to live. He claimed that the whole affair was merely a pretext to form a
                    sectional political party.
            As the campaign neared its end, the Democrats sought a coalition with the old
                    Whigs who were reluctant to join 
                  
                     74
                            Western Christian Advocate, October 4, 1854.
                  
                     75 Wallace, Lew Wallace: An
                                Autobiography, I, 237.
               
                     the new party. A call was made for a united
                    effort of the national Whigs and the Democracy to defeat the abolitionists.76
            
            In September, Judge Stephen A. Douglas himself came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to address the Democracy. Jesse Bright traveled far and wide
                    throughout the state to quell the up-surge against the party. Governor Wright
                    attacked the Know-Nothings while he supported faithfully the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     test. He played upon his favorite theme—states rights
                    versus centralization.77
            
            The Sentinel closed the campaign with this stirring appeal to
                    the party: "Democrats, you are battling for your country, for the
                    Constitution, for the holy and blessed Union which our fathers made, for Popular
                    Sovereignty, and Popular Rights, for Civil and Religious Liberty, for the
                    glorious cause of National Democracy, the prayers and benedictions of patriotism
                    and downtrodden humanity are being poured fofth for your success. On Freemen! On
                    to Victory!"78
            
            The summer had been hot and dry in Indiana; the Hoosiers bemoaned their parched
                    fields. While the drought had created its share of havoc, the political climate
                    had added to the perplexities of the agricultural scene. Even agricultural
                    improvement seemed to be in default. One agricultural society reported:
                    "We found that on account of the frequent meetings for political speech
                    making, it was impossible to get sufficient numbers of farmers together to make
                    it useful or interesting to get up agricultural addresses, so we have had none
                    this year." Another society recorded that it was "impossible
                    to interest the same persons in two popular movements at the same time, so that
                    we suffered some on that account.79
            
            
               
                  76 Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party
                        in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII,
                        68.
               
                  77 Wright's correspondent, John Hunt, was not
                        ready to accept the Governor's campaign oratory. He wrote,
                        "Such arguments will have more weight with, the Enlightened Dutch
                        and Irish than with me. Why you might as well accuse the Whigs of
                        introducing the Colera, as to impute these things to them." John
                        Hunt to Joseph A. Wright, 
                            Cambridge City
                        , July 27, 1854, Wright Papers.
               
                  78
                        Indiana State Sentinel, October 7, 1854.
               
                  79
                        Third Annual Report of the Indiana State Board of Agrinclture
                            for the Year 1854 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1855), Extracts from 
                            Porter County
                         and 
                            Delaware
                         County reports, 15, 122.
            
            
            Election day, October 10, 1854, arrived at long last. Hoosiers gathered in county
                    seat towns and crossroads villages to enjoy their franchise as well as to
                    exercise it. Amid banners and barrels (the "cold water" boys
                    excepted) voters and vote-seekers mingled around the polling places to cast
                    ballots which would climax the first campaign of the Fusion party.
            The excitement of the campaign continued even on election day in same quarters.
                    In New 
                        Albany
                     and Jefferson-ville, riots occurred when imported poll watchers,
                    who came across the river from 
                        Louisville
                    , clashed with the 
                        German
                     and Irish at the ballot boxes. The Irish were also accused of
                    attacking the nativists in 
                        Gibson County
                    .80
            
            In 
                        Madison
                    , the Brights were active. King reported that: 
                  
                     
                        "Bright on yesterday made a bet of 500 on Dunhams
                                    election…. Twas Dick Bright who
                                    handled the money but twas Jess Brights property. This mjorning
                                    M. G. Bright was offering a thousand dollar bet…. If
                                    their plethora of Spoils,
                                    accumulated from the party can be tapped and a depleting process
                                    ensue, ‘twill not be a bad thing for the
                                        Brights."81
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            The returns poured in. The Indiana Democrats were overwhelmingly defeated by the
                    upstart Fusionists. In the state offices, the newl party rolled up a majority of
                    13,000 votes. The majority in the congressional campaigns over the whole state
                    was 14,500 votes, while in the districts themselves, only William H. English and
                    Smith Miller had survived the Fusionist onslaught. The remaining nine seats were
                    won by the Fusion. In the legislature, where temperance was a test, the new
                    membership consisted of fifty-eight Fusionists and forty-one Democrats. Only in
                    the state Senate did the Democracy retain a slight edge of two seats.82
            
            The victories of the two Democratic congressmen should be considered. The
                    traditional interpretation of their success 
                  
                     80 Lewis C. Baird, Bairds Histow of 
                                    Clark County
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1909), 111.
                  
                     81 John Lyle King, October 11, 1854, Diaries,
                            Indiana Historical Society Library.
                  
                     82
                            Whig Almanac and 
                                    United States
                                 Registor for 1855 (
                                New York
                            , 1855), 61.
               
                     seems to be to attribute it to pro-southern
                    constituencies, but this is perhaps too simple an explanation. It is true that
                    the first and second congressional districts are in the heart of the southern
                    upland limestone belt that extends a finger into Indiana, and that many settlers
                    there had migrated from the southern uplands. Yet when these fertile river
                    bottoms and wooded hills were given political boundaries various factors molded
                    the people. In Smith Miller's district there were many Catholic
                    parishes and Du-bois County was heavily populated by Germans. Miller was able to
                    carry the district by 813 votes, yet in Dubois alone, his majority was 727
                    votes. 
                        Gibson County
                     in his district had probably more people of southern origin than
                    any other of his counties, yet the Fusionists carried it. English was able to
                    carry his district by a slight margin by building up large majorities among the
                    country Democrats away from the river. In the three counties in the northern end
                    of his district, his majority was 863 votes, while his total majority was
                        586.83 It was among these groups of small farmers that
                    the Democrats were able to make up for the losses in the more diversified
                    counties. None of these factors in itself tells the complete story, yet
                    considered together they seem to show that pro-southern attitudes alone cannot
                    explain the voting behavior of the constituents.
            For the state as a whole, the Democracy at first blamed its defeat on the
                    Know-Nothing men. This was followed by attributing the debacle to the "
                        Nebraska
                     Humbug" and later to the "ill-advised"
                    temperance movement. However, a few Democratic editors admitted that former
                    members of their own party had brought about the downfall.
            The Fusionists were more sweeping in their interpretation of the election
                    results; to them it was a victory of principles, a revolt against political
                    corruption. Jacob Y. Chapman termed it a victory of good over evil.84
            
            The Democrats had used all the weapons at their command as well as all the
                    volunteers they could muster for 
                  
                     83 The county returns are found ibid.
                  
                  
                     84 Stoler, "Insurgent Democrats of
                            Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                             in 1854," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XXXIII, 30.
               
                     the cause. The campaign had not been the
                    more familiar encounter of politician matched against politician, using the
                    usual weapons and with a common knowledge of the political terrain; it was an
                    all-encompassing battle of politicians and nonpoliticians alike. To single out
                    causes is not sound, since the campaign was in reality extremely complex; it was
                    a great number of local struggles without a single tactical plan.
            It had required all the resources that the opposition could acquire to defeat the
                    Democracy for it was a firmly entrenched political party. Despite some
                    weaknesses, it possessed an over-all condition of common feeling and solidarity
                    in the ranks that a single issue could perhaps damage, but not defeat. Indiana
                    in 1854, although in a transition stage, possessed a great degree of uniformity
                    to which the Democracy appealed. A predominantly rural community, inhabited by a
                    comparatively uniform type of population that shared a common background were
                    conditions that compensated for the Hoosier diversities. Thus to whip the
                    Democratic party required an all-out effort.
            The so-called "isms" had much in common and all were channeled
                    to fight the Democracy. Once they had won the victory, however, the initial
                    enthusiasms were endangered. A temperance law, for example, would bring a loss
                    of incentive among the enemies of the liquor traffic. Once the responsibilities
                    of public office had replaced the enthusiasms new problems would arise that
                    would make tougher demands on the still unhardened coalition. Some insurgent
                    Democrats had paid a high political price for admission, while many Whigs had
                    entered by default. Political speculators of all former parties dreamed of
                    profits.
            After the election, there remained the matter of a settlement that would satisfy
                    the practical-minded of the Fusion.
            Those who had entered the coalition in order to vent their wrath against the
                    forces of evil could not readily compromise their principles. If the high ideals
                    of the campaign were to be sacrificed for the sake of organization and
                    workability, the Fusion would lose some of its followers. These problems were to
                    follow the first flush of success.
            
            Meanwhile, Bill 
                        Brown
                    , confident that in a democracy there is always a next time for the
                    politician to regain that which has been lost in an election, was organizing new
                    Democratic clubs.85
            
            
               
                  85 Esarey, History of Indiana, II,
                        639.
            
         
         
         
            Ohioans in Northern Indiana before 1850
            
                    Elfrieda Lang
                    *
                
            A century ago six counties in northern Indiana had more 
                        Ohio
                    -born inhabitants than native-born Hoosiers.1 Of
                    the total population for the area, 44,186, or 26.73 per cent, were natives of 
                        Ohio
                     as compared to 58,297, or 35.27 per cent, born in Indiana. Thus, in
                    the twenty-one counties within the region the Hoosiers surpassed the Buckeyes by
                    only slightly more than eight per cent.2
            
            The area referred to as northern Indiana includes most of the counties north of
                    the 
                        Wabash River
                    —that portion of the state which has been designated by
                    geologists as the Northern Moraine and Lake Region. The characteristically
                    rugged topography frequently in evidence throughout this section is to some
                    extent the result of nature's retention of the original forms created
                    by "continental glaciation in the zone of ice wastage." Large
                    areas thus came to appear as flat, monotonous lacustrine plains marked by broad
                    marshes, and extinct marshes broken by low sand ridges or knolls. Wherever
                    drainage was obstructed by high moraines near the headwaters of streams, lakes
                    formed; and wherever drainage developed, a certain amount of leveling took
                    place. The result of this prehistoric processing by the elements was a varied
                    terrain, which offered a challenge as well as a lure to Buckeye citizens.
            One should examine in somewhat more detail that wilderness landscape which
                    induced these Ohioans to leave their homes. To the five subdivisions of the
                    Northern Moraine and Lake Region, which extends beyond the limits of the state,
                    geographic names have been applied. Beginning in the northwest corner of the
                    state, the area extending from seven 
                  
                     * Elfrieda Lang is assistant curator of
                            manuscripts, Indiana University Library, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 The counties and the number of Ohioans in excess
                            of Indianians were: 
                                De Kalb
                             1,177, 
                                Kosciusko
                             198, Noble 831, Starke 4, 
                                Steuben
                             115, and 
                                Whitley
                             314. All material in this article unless otherwise
                            indicated is supported by statistics compiled from the Original Returns
                            of the Seventh 
                                United States
                             Census, 1850, Indiana. A copy of this census in microfilm
                            is on file in the Documents Division of the Indiana University Library, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     2 The twenty-one counties studied were: Allen,
                            Cam, 
                        De Kalb,
                                    Elkhart, Fulton, Jasper, Kosciusko, Lagrange
                     , Lake, 
                                La Porte
                            , Marshall, Miami, Noble, Porter, 
                        Pulaski, St.
                                    Joseph
                     , Starke, 
                        Steuben, Wabash
                     , White, and 
                                Whitley
                            , with a total population of 165,286 in 1850.
               
                     to fifteen miles more or less south of Lake 
                        Michigan
                     and northeastward a few miles along the shore of the lake, covering
                    approximately 275 square miles, is known as the Calumet Lacustrine Section.
                    Although at one time this area was covered by lake waters, it derived its name
                    from the Calumet River, which crosses the better-developed portion of the
                    lacustrine plain. A feature of the region is the low sand ridges which extend
                    parallel to Lake 
                        Michigan
                    . These are "old beach lines marking the successive stages
                    in the withdrawal of the lake from the area." East and northeast from
                    Gary, along the lake, are some of the largest sand dunes in the 
                        United States
                    . This natural barrier, however, did not deter 223 Ohioans from
                    settling there.
            The adjoining region, covering about six hundred square miles, whose inner margin
                    is approximately fifteen miles from Lake 
                        Michigan
                     on the 
                        Illinois
                    -Indiana line and only two miles on the Indiana-
                        Michigan
                     boundary, is referred to as the 
                        Valparaiso
                     Moraine Section. Since there is a goodly representation of knolls
                    and sags of the area in the vicinity of 
                        Valparaiso
                    , it derived its name from that city. The western portion of this 
                        Valparaiso
                     Moraine, from twelve to fifteen miles broad, is composed of three
                    moraine ridges with practically no level till plain between them. Only a few
                    knolls emerge more than twenty or thirty feet above the nearby sags. In 
                        Lake County
                    , however, there are knolls of about seven hundred and fifty feet.
                    From 
                        Valparaiso
                     to the northeast the average width of the moraine is eight miles,
                    and one knoll towers to the height of 885 feet. The outer margin of the moraine
                    extends only slightly above the massive outwash plain which borders it on the
                    south. Along the inner margin it ascends above the Calumet Lacustrine Plain, and
                    within two miles has risen one hundred and fifty feet. For ten miles or less the
                    highest knolls are about three hundred feet above the surface of Lake 
                        Michigan
                    . The basins of the moraine in Indiana are dotted with a number of
                    small lakes, of which Hudson in 
                        La Porte
                     County and Cedar in 
                        Lake County
                     are the largest. Apparently the region just described was regarded
                    by Ohioans as more desirable than the Calumet Lacustrine area, since 1,730 chose
                    the 
                        Valparaiso
                     Moraine district.
            Another subdivision has been designated as the Kankakee Lacustrine Section, which
                    is bounded on the north by the 
                        Valparaiso
                     Moraine and on the south by the 
                        Tipton
                     Till  Plain. It has been
                    referred to as "a great system of sandy lacustrine plains, outwash
                    plains, valley trains, and local enclosed till plains associated with a great
                    line of glacial drainage and ponding" along the 
                        St. Joseph
                    , Kankakee, and 
                        Tippecanoe rivers
                     in Indiana. Dunes are common, and are characterized by "a
                    thin deposit of somewhat ridged sand." The Kankakee Marsh, with an
                    altitude of between six hundred and fifty and seven hundred feet above sea
                    level, covers an area of almost a thousand square miles in this section.
                    According to the surveyors’ field notes, a large portion of the area
                    near the Kankakee River was entirely marsh. The banks of the stream were very
                    low and lined with a heavy growth of ash, maple, oak, birch, and some elm that
                    grew very tall. An undergrowth of swamp elder and wild rose, which formed this
                    "interminable forest," was covered with water. Because the
                    soil in the forest or swamp was loose yellow sand, it was almost impossible to
                    approach the river except during the winter months when the swamp was frozen.3
            
            Since 7,508 Ohioans settled in the Kankakee Lacustrine Section, some may have
                    been shrewd enough to gamble on what might be found in those marshes. Uriah
                    Biggs, in one of his surveyor's reports, noted that there were
                    "large beds of rich ore," in the marshes. Another early
                    surveyor, Jeremiah Smith, said that the upland, rolling parts between the
                    Kankakee and Yellow rivers consisted of a white sandy soil which was so loose in
                    some places that a person would sink an inch or two in walking over it. While
                    the land was uninviting to the capitalist and speculator, to the poor man and
                    the squatter it held out some inducements, he thought, because a claim staked
                    out by the latter in all probability would not be encroached upon by the
                        former.4 Some 
                        Ohio
                     emigrants may have held views similar to those of Smith in this
                    respect.
            Northeastern Indiana, which constitutes the fourth subdivision, has been called
                    the 
                        Steuben
                     Morainal Lake Section. It received this title because a county by
                    that name in the locality contained "moraines of both the Saginaw and 
                        Erie
                     ice-lobes" as well as many lakes. The Mississinewa
                    Moraine, which extends through northeastern 
                  Wabash, Whitley
               ,
                    eastern 
                  
                     3 Surveyors’ Field Notes, North and
                            West, XXII, 430. A complete file of sixty-three volumes of field notes
                            is in the possession of the State Auditor's Office, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., XIX, 225-27, 262-63.
               
                     Noble, and western and northern 
                        Steuben
                     counties, "is the largest and best defined moraine in
                    Indiana." A large portion of its area may be referred to as crumpled,
                    because the surface resembles "a sheet of paper which has been
                    carelessly crushed in the hand and then spread out." The region where
                    the ridges are steeper, sharper, and arranged in somewhat parallel lines has
                    been designated as corrugated. "Similar features very much exaggerated
                    produce what may be called gouged or chasmed country, found in perfection
                    southwest of 
                        Columbia City
                    ." Moreover, the roads are by necessity as crooked as
                    cows’ paths, winding as they must around the marshes. In every
                    direction are steep descents and ascents, the handiwork of nature's
                    unusual creation. As this is the largest subdivision, it is only natural that it
                    should have had, in 1850, the largest number of Ohioans—28,738.
            The surveyors’ reports for northeastern Indiana were very
                    discouraging. Impassable swamps, and as E. H. Lytle pointed out, a lake in the
                    area filled with pond lilies and patches of rushes, did not add to the
                    landscape. Another region of blown-down timber and between one and three hundred
                    acres of an impenetrable growth was uninviting.5 These
                    sights apparently did not deter Ohioans from settling in this area of the state,
                    especially 
                        De Kalb
                     County, which had over eleven hundred more Buckeyes in 1850 than
                    Hoosiers. 
                        Kosciusko County
                     also had more Ohioans than Indianians in that year. Yet the region
                    between the 
                        Eel
                     and 
                        Tippecanoe rivers
                     was very wet. John Hendricks, one of the surveyors for this
                    district, was convinced that the land was good and less interrupted with swamps
                    and marshy prairies than some other areas; and because of a heavy, luxuriant
                    growth of timber, he believed, it was well suited for future improvements.6 The spirit of adventure may have endowed the immigrant
                    with the determination to overcome the obstacles produced by nature.
            A more encouraging report was that of David Hillis about land east of the 
                        Michigan
                     road in 
                        Marshall County
                    , because the land was generally level and dry.7
                    The most favorable account, however, came from the pen of Arthur 
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., North and East, XXXVIII, 230, 331; XXXIX, 240.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., XXXII, 326.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., XXIX, 179.
               
                     St. Clair Vance on a township north of the 
                        Tippecanoe River
                     in Noble County. Much of the land was very heavily timbered with
                    tall, large sugar maple trees.8 Since this county had 831
                    more Ohioans than Indianians in 1850, they may have been attracted to the region
                    because of the rich black soil, which averaged from six to eight inches in
                    depth. Just as encouraging a report was made by William 
                        Brookfield
                    , who stated that the western part of Allen Cqunty, near the present
                    site of Fort Wayne, contained much fine land and timber.9
            
            About one hundred and twenty square miles in 
                        Allen County
                     has been identified as the Maumee Lacustrine Section. Almost
                    completely featureless, the lacustrine plain, covering also a large area in 
                        Ohio
                    , was once "occupied by an ice-dammed lake,"
                    Glacial Lake Maumee, which had its outlet near Fort Wayne.10
                    Although this is the smallest subdivision, it was the choice of 1,448 Ohioans.
                    The fertility of the soil in this area as well as in certain regions of the 
                        Steuben
                     Morainal Lake Section may account for a larger population per
                    square mile.
            The total number of Ohioans for the five subdivisions of northern Indiana was
                    39,647, a lower figure than the total for the twenty-one counties included. This
                    is due to the fact that townships in the counties studied which did not fall
                    within the subdivisions described were omitted. It has not been deemed advisable
                    to consider only a portion of a county for the study as a whole. There is a
                    difference of 4,539 in the figure between the total nuniber of Ohioans in
                    northern Indiana and that given for the five subdivisions. The map which
                    indicates the five subdivisions of the northern part of the state also shows the
                    distribution of Ohioans in that section of the Hoosier State. Because only a
                    small section of 
                        Huntington
                     County falls within the northern Moraine and Lake Region it has not
                    been included in the study.
            
               
                  8
                  Ibid., XXXIV, 191.
               
                  9
                  Ibid., XXXVI, 172.
               
                  10Clyde A. Malott, "The Physiography of
                        Indiana," in Handbook of Indiana Geology (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1922), 70, 79, 112-24. For a discussion of the geographical
                        features see, Stephen S. Visher, "The Geography of
                        Indiana," in ibid., 7-58. See also, Edward
                        Barrett, "The Dunes of Northwestern Indiana," Forty-first Annual Repopt of Geology and Natural Resources,
                        Indiana (Fort Wayne, Indiana, 1916), 11-27.
            
            
            
               MAP SHOWING SUBDIVISIONS OF THE NORTHERN MORAINE AND LAKE REGION IN INDIANA
               1 Calumet Lacustrine Section, 2 
                            Valparaiso
                         Moraine Section, 3 Kankakee Lacustrine Section, 4 
                            Steuben
                         Morainal Lake Section, 5 Maumee Lacustrine Section
               * Represents from 49 to 149 Ohioans
            
            
            It is unlikely that very many of the Ohioans who had settled in northern Indiana
                    by 1850 were acquainted with the surveyors’ field notes. Since many
                    of these reports were unfavorable, the immigrant must have obtained information
                    of a more favorable nature from other sources. Among these could have been the
                    letters written by the representatives of the American Home Missionary Society
                    in Indiana. Martin M. Post, one of these missionaries, wrote in 1830 that
                    Logansport was one of the most valuable places in the state for the use of
                    "water pressure." He claimed that the "fertile
                    prairies and woodlands" along the "beautiful 
                        Wabash River
                    " and other water courses, as well as around the
                    "pure clear springs and crystal lakes" in 
                        St. Joseph County
                    , would become "the busy haunts of civilized
                        man."11
            
            On the other hand, James Chute, who had been commissioned to the Fort Wayne
                    district, in 1831 pointed out advantages and disadvantages. He stated that
                    provisions cost nearly twice as much as in the 
                        Ohio
                     settlements. This he attributed to the fact that the inhabitants
                    had depended wholly on the Indian trade and had neglected the cultivation of the
                    land. Nevertheless, the population increased as did the demand for supplies, and
                    living became more expensive. Because of the fertile soil, farms were appearing,
                    and it was Chute's opinion that the Fort Wayne region would exert a
                    "powerful influence upon the surrounding country." He doubted
                    whether any place in the West offered greater inducements to the farmer, and a
                    surplus in produce at any time could be transported to the 
                        New York
                     market without much difficulty.12
            
            Notwithstanding the fact that there were attractions which caused some Ohioans to
                    move to northern Indiana, there were also obstacles which discouraged others.
                    Just when they began to cross the boundary line is not known. From the county
                    histories, it is obvious that some families had lived in southern Indiana before
                    removing to the northern part of the state.
            In view of the fact that before 1850 no record was made 
                  
                     11 Martin M. Post, 
                                Logansport
                            , Indiana, to Absalom Peters, 
                                New York
                            , May 24, 1830. American Home Missionary Society Papers, 
                                Hammond
                             Library, 
                                Chicago
                             Theological Seminary. A microfilm copy of these papers is
                            in the Indiana University Library.
                  
                     12 James Chute, Fort Wayne, Indiana, to Absalom
                            Peters, 
                                New York
                            , September 20, 1831, ibid.
                  
               
                     of the place of birth in the census, it is
                    somewhat difficult to obtain an exact report of the nativity of many who settled
                    in northern Indiana. In order to compile the data here submitted, a record has
                    been made of every name in the 1830 and 1840 cenus as well as of every settler
                    before 1841 mentioned in the county histories, which in some instances provide
                    biographical information. The names have then been checked against the 1850
                    census. Some exceptions to results obtained in this manner, but otherwise
                    unmeasurable, should be recognized. These, however, will not materially or
                    substantially alter conclusions reached. From the sources used, it has been
                    discovered that 159 Ohioans had settled in the area between 1820 and 1830. This
                    number was increased to 9,198 by 1840. During the next decade the tide of
                    emigration had brought the population of Buckeyes to about forty-five thousand.
                    This increase was probably not so great as would appear at a glance, for by 1850
                    more accurate figures were available.
            Most of the immigrants from 
                        Ohio
                     were comparatively young. An analysis of the ages of Ohioans in
                    northern Indiana revealed tha't slightly less than five per cent were
                    above forty, over thirteen per cent were between thirty and forty years old, and
                    over eighty-two per cent were below the age of thirty.13
                    Many of the parents born in another section of the 
                        United States
                     or in a foreign country had used 
                        Ohio
                     as a stepping-stone to the Hoosier State. Of these 12,152 men and
                    women who had children born in 
                        Ohio
                     and had moved to northern Indiana by 1850, the largest number,
                    58.05 per cent, came from the Middle Atlantic States.14 The
                    Southern States followed with 24.86 per cent.15 New 
                        England
                     with 8.30 per cent had the smallest number.16
                    Eleven foreign countries were represented with 8.79 per cent.17
            
            
               
                  13 The distribution of ages was 9,615 or 21.76 per
                        cent below ten; 15,470 or 35.03 per cent between 10 and 19; 11,177 or 25.30
                        per cent between 20 and 29; 5,903 or 13.36 per cent between 30 and 40; 1,996
                        or 4.52 per cent between 40 and 89; and 25 or.06 per cent age unknown.
               
                  14 In this group 126 came from 
                            Delaware
                        ; 552, from 
                            New Jersey
                        ; 1,663, from 
                            New York
                        ; and 4,713 from 
                            Pennsylvania
                        —total 7,054.
               
                  15 The distribution for the states south of the 
                            Mason
                         and 
                            Dixon
                         Line was as follows: 
                            Alabama
                         1, District of 
                            Columbia
                         4, 
                            Georgia
                         9, 
                            Kentucky
                         286, 
                            Maryland
                         730, 
                            North Carolina
                         157, South Carolina 64, 
                            Tennessee
                         53, and 
                            Virginia
                         1,717—total 3,021.
               
                  16 Every New 
                            England
                         state was represented and with the following number: 
                            Connecticut
                         228, 
                            Maine
                         61, 
                            Massachusetts
                         242, 
                            New Hampshire
                         93, 
                            Rhode Island
                         29, and 
                            Vermont
                         356—btal 1,009.
               
                  17 These countries were: 
                            Canada
                         81, 
                            England
                         113, 
                            France
                         42, 
                            Germany
                         613, 
                            Ireland
                         159, Isle of Man 5, 
                            Norway
                         1, 
                            New Brunswick
                         1, 
                            Scotland
                         19, Switzerland 32, and 
                            Wales
                         2—total 1,068.
            
            
            The stay in 
                        Ohio
                     of these people who had such diversified backgrounds varied from
                    one to twenty-five years.18 This state did not necessarily
                    make its deepest imprint upon, those who had lived there the longest. Customs
                    and traditions of other sections and countries continued to be a part of their
                    lives and their children's lives. Evidence of this is still readily
                    recognized in customs, architecture, and colloquialisms. As an illustration may
                    be cited the story of a group who emigrated from Medina County, 
                        Ohio
                    , to 
                        Fulton County
                    , Indiana. In 1835, they sent their representative, Joseph Sippy, on
                    a prospecting trip to Indiana in order to investigate the possibilities of
                    settling there, and, if favorably impressed, to purchase government lands.19 Sippy returned to 
                        Ohio
                     with a glowing report of the possibilities which this region of
                    "luscious berries, rich nuts, an abundance of wild game, and springs of
                    clear water," held in store for those "eager to find homes and
                    establish civilization." Consequently, on the first day of June of the
                    next year, a colony of forty-seven men, women, and children, as well as their
                    ox-drawn wagons loaded with scanty household possessions, began the trek for the
                    Hoosier State. During the westward journey of more than thirty days, some time
                    each day was devoted to the singing of "Guide Me, Oh Thou Great
                    Jehovah." When the wagons halted and the leader announced,
                    "This is the place," these God-fearing men and women knelt and
                    offered prayers to their Heavenly Father for having guided them safely ts their
                    destination. This act as well as that of sending a prospector was a typical
                    custom of New 
                        England
                     families who sought new homes in the West.
            In 1838 a town was laid out and named 
                        Newark
                     in honor 
                  
                     18 The number of years spent in 
                                Ohio
                             was determined on the basis of the birth of children as
                            given in the 1850 Original Census Returns.
                  
                     19 Joseph Sippy was born in 
                                Virginia
                             and his wife was born in 
                                Pennsylvania
                            . Some of the other members of the group were born in 
                                Pennsylvania
                             and the New 
                                England States
                            . There is some possibility that the parents of the
                            Pennsylvanians may have been natives of New 
                                England
                            . The choice of a county in 
                                Ohio
                             whose pioneers were mostly Yankees, some of whom had lived
                            in 
                                New York
                             and 
                                Pennsylvania
                             before coming to 
                                Ohio
                            , would lead one to conclude that probably some members of
                            the colony who emigrated from Medina County to 
                                Fulton County
                             may have been of New 
                                England
                             ancestry. Original Retums of the Seventh 
                                United States
                             Census, 1850, Indiana; N. B. Northrop, Pioneer
                                Histow of Medina County (Medina, 
                                Ohio
                            , 1861), 33, 89, 95, 212; Bakin & Battey, History of Medina County, 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1881), 221.
               
                     of the old place in 
                        Ohio
                     from which the colonists had emigrated. After the town was platted,
                    the post office was moved to another village one-half mile east. From time to
                    time new settlers came from 
                        Ohio
                    , but the name of the town, varying from that of the post office,
                    created numerous problems. When George McCloud from Medina County, 
                        Ohio
                    , therefore, became the village postmaster, he suggested Akron at
                    the time legal proceedings were instigated to change the name. In an old church
                    record the name of Akron first appeared in January, 1855. This new honor to 
                        Ohio
                    , however, carried the stigma of annoyance to later citizens,
                    because the tracks of the 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Erie
                     Railroad which passed through both Akron, 
                        Ohio
                    , and Akron, Indiana, frequently carried freight billed for the
                    Indiana town to that in 
                        Ohio
                    .20
            
            The older members of the 1836 party which had migrated from 
                        Ohio
                     represented other sections of the country and brought some, of the
                    traditions of these areas to Indiana. Years of birth of the children of this
                    party, which can be determined from the census, indicated that some of these
                    families had lived in 
                        Ohio
                     for over ten years. Probably because of some pleasant experiences
                    in the Buckeye State, they were desirous of naming their small settlement in
                    honor of the town which they had left in 
                        Ohio
                    .
            A settlement in 
                        Elkhart
                     County also was named for a town in 
                        Ohio
                    . These families, however, had lived a number of years in Indiana
                    before leaving a more permanent trace of their former home. One cold night in
                    January of 1836, Enoch Wright, a native of 
                        Virginia
                    , and Isaac Abshire, nativity unknown, both of whom had emigated
                    with their families from Preble County, 
                        Ohio
                    , decided tot found a town. To provide a site, each agreed to donate
                    several acres of land. An official survey was made in March by James R. McCord,
                    a native of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and county surveyor, the town was platted, and it was called New
                        Paris.21 Strange surroundings 
                  
                     20 Henry A. Barnhart (ed.), An
                                Account of 
                                    Fulton County
                                 From Its Organization (Dayton, Ohio, 1923),
                            136-41. The 
                                Newark
                             here mentioned may have been a small town not marked on the
                            maps of 
                                Ohio
                            . It should not be confused with Newark in Licking County.
                  
                     21 H. S. K. Bartholomew, Stories and
                                Sketches of 
                                    Elkhart
                                 County (n.p., 1936), 304-08. James Fleming and
                            Andrew 
                                Ireland
                             were the founders of New Paris, Ohio. They had emigrated
                            from the vicinity of Paris, Kentucky. H. Z. Williams & Bro., History of Preble County, 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (n.p., 1881), 265.
               
                     did not change the nostalgia for and
                    remembrance of a former settlement.
            Although no towns in 
                        De Kalb
                     County may have been founded honoring 
                        Ohio
                    , its first settler, John Houlton, was a native of that state.22 He came in September, 1833, with three hired men, a yoke
                    of oxen, a crosscut saw, and a froe.23 Some colonies also
                    chose 
                        De Kalb
                     County. One arrived the first part of October, 1836, from Trumbull
                    County and another came in 1837 from Morrow County. While a considerable number
                    from 
                        Ohio
                     came to Indiana in parties, there were some, endowed with an
                    abundance of adventure, who started out alone on foot with knapsacks on their
                    backs containing what worldly goods they possessed.24
            
            Whether the Buckeyes came in groups, as families, or alone, they were well
                    represented in northern Indiana by 1850. Some made their entrance onto the state
                    political stage and assumed such leading roles as senators or representatives
                    while others took their places in the audience and applauded loudly or ridiculed
                    the performance of the actors. Of the seven senators, two were Whigs; three
                    Democrats; and two did not designate a political party. Two members of the upper
                    house engaged in farming and five joined the ranks of professional men, three of
                    whom were lawyers and ‘two physicians. The political status of the
                    representatives was equally divided, with eleven Democrats and eleven Whigs.
                    This group represented a great variety of occupations. The farmers were in the
                    majority with twelve. Of the remaining ten, four were merchants; two, lawyers;
                    one was a physician; one, a tailor; one, a clerk; and one, a printer.25
            
            
               
                  22 John Houlton was born in 
                            Highland
                         County, 
                            Ohio
                        , on September 21, 1804. On February 5, 1833, he married Sarah
                        Fee, who died on July 12, 1839. He died on June 2, 1875. Inter-State
                        Publishing Co., History of 
                                De Kalb
                             County, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1885), 296-301, 618-20. The 1850 Original Census gives 
                            Pennsylvania
                         as the birthplace of Houlton. His own reminiscences, however,
                        state 
                            Ohio
                        . A recent publication has a slightly different spelling for his
                        name—Houghton. Willis W. Carey, History of
                            Spencerville (n.p., 1952), 5.
               
                  23 Froe is a steel wedge which was used for splitting
                        logs.
               
                  24 Inter-State Publishing Co., History of 
                                De Kalb
                             County, Indiana, 779, 515-16, 721.
               
                  25 Among the senators from 1836 to 1850 were James H.
                        Buell, physician; Joseph W. Chapman, lawyer and Democrat; Abraham Cuppy,
                        farmer and Democrat; Gustavus A. Everts, lawyer; William G. Montgomery,
                        physician and Whig; Matthew Rippey, farmer and Democrat; Williamson Wright,
                        lawyer and Whig.
               The representatives from 1836 to 1850 were Seneca Ball, merchant and Whig;
                        Gideon Brecount, farmer and Democrat; Alphonso A. Cole, lawyer and Whig;
                        William: Conn, farmer and Democrat; John S. Cotton, farmer and Democrat;
                        Abraham Cuppy, farmer and Democrat; Samuel Decker, farmer and Democrat;
                        Jacob Helwig, farmer and Democrat; Peter Keiser, merchant and Democrat;
                        William M. Kenton, farmer and Whig; William Millikin, printer and Whig;
                        William H. Nimmons, physician and Whig; Christian Parker, farmer and Whig;
                        David Rippey, farmer and Democrat; Matthew Rippey, farmer and Democrat;
                        Joseph Robbins, farmer and Democrat; Peter L. Runyan, merchant and Whig;
                        Thomas S. Stanfield, lawyer and Whig; Henry Swihart, merchant and Whig;
                        Gabriel Swyhart, farmer and Democrat; Daniel M. Tilton, tailor and Whig;
                        Mark Whitney, clerk and Whig. This information was obtained from broadsides
                        and original manuscripts in the Indiana State Library, Indiana Historical
                        Society Library, and the Indiana University Library, containing the names,
                        age, nativity, occupation, politics, years in state, boarding house,
                        residence, and district represented.
            
            
            When the constitutional convention assembled in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in October, 1850, three Ohioans who had settled in northern Indiana
                    were members of that august body.26 The most outstanding man
                    in this group was Horace P. Biddle of 
                        Logansport
                    , formerly of Hocking County, 
                        Ohio
                    , a lawyer and Whig who had lived in Indiana ten years.27 Early in the convention a recommendation for the
                    abolition of the Grand Jury System brought Biddle to his feet to deliver an
                    eloquent speech in defense of the system. He declared: "Take away
                    juries and you take from the people that which, of all others, is most
                    especially their privilege—the right to try facts." If he
                    could be convinced that kings could rule without parliaments, that presidents
                    could govern without congress, and that governors should dictate laws without
                    the sanction of legislatures, then he would be willing to take courts without
                        juries.28
            
            
               
                  26 Baker & McFarland, "Members of the
                        Convention to Amend the Constitution of the State of Indiana, Assembled at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , October, 1850, Giving Name, Age, Post Office, County
                        Represented, Nativity, Years in State, Boarding House, Occupation, Politics,
                        Married or Single, and Remarks," a broadside.
               
                  27 Horace P. Biddle was born in what is now Hocking
                        County, 
                            Ohio
                        , on March 24, 1811. His parents, Benjamin and Abigail Biddle,
                        were natives of 
                            Connecticut
                        , who had immigrated to the Hocking Valley in 1802. From 1860 to
                        1872, he probably did his best work as Judge of the Circuit Court of the
                        Ninth Judicial District. In 1874 he was elected Judge of the Supreme Court
                        from the Fifth Judicial District. He was also a linguist. Poems and music
                        from his pen were published. George I. Reed, Encyclopedia of
                            Biography of Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1895-1899), 11, 170-72.
               
                  28
                        Report of the Debates and Proceedings of the Convention for the
                            Revision of the Constitution of the: State of Indiana, 1850 (2
                        vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1850), I, 173-82.
            
            
            Of the remaining two members, little can be said. Robert Work, a farmer and
                    Democrat, thirty-nine years of age, of 
                        Butler
                     in 
                        De Kalb
                     County, had been in the state seventeen years. His only recorded
                    contribution in the convention was a motion to lay an amendment on the table.29 James Garvin apparently was a silent member and only
                    listened. He was forty years of age, a farmer and Democrat, of Palestine in 
                        Kosciusko County
                    , who had been in the state sixteen years.
            One of the secretaries of the convention was George L. Sites from Fort Wayne. He
                    was twenty-six years of age, a lawyer and Democrat, who had been in the state
                    only three years.
            Another matter of vital significance which attracted considerable attention at
                    the constitutional convention was education. Since the men already mentioned
                    made no speeches on that subject, there is some likelihood that they may not
                    have had any particular opinions on this matter. Others, however, considered it
                    of paramount importance and several months before the convention assembled,
                    newspapers published articles on the common schools.
            While the framers of the 1816 Indiana Constitution were interested in
                    "spreading the opportunities, and advantages of education,"
                    they failed to make available the means to accomplish their purpose.30 It was, therefore, up to the members of the 1850
                    Constitutional Convention to remedy the situation and make possible free
                    education for the inhabitants of Indiana. To arouse interest, articles signed
                    "Delta" appeared from time to time on the common schools. The
                    writer claimed that if the government was bound to support the child in certain
                    cases and take care of its physical wants, it was bound also for the enactment
                    of laws to educate the child, "for to preserve its mere animal life
                    without providing for its higher interest" was a curse. He continued by
                    declaring: "Better that life should become extinct than that the child
                    should grow up in ignorance, upon which error and all its fearful consequences
                        depend."31
            
            In view of the fact that there was no free education in Indiana until after the
                    Constitution of 1851 was approved, it is significant to note that of the 22,246
                    between the ages of 
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 841.
                  
                     30 Charles Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana (3 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916-1930), I, 112-13.
                  
                     31
                            Indiana State Journal, May 8, 1850. Articles on the
                            common schools signed by "Delta" appeared in this
                            triweekly from May 6 to July 24, 1850.
               
                     5 and 19, who had been born in 
                        Ohio
                     and were living in northern Indiana, 12,511 were listed as having
                    attended school in 1850. In sixteen counties more than fifty per cent of the
                    Ohioans between the ages of five and nineteen were in school and in only five
                    counties less than fifty per cent in that age group attended school. The
                    schoolroom also had been sought by 264 above the age of twenty. Only 38 below
                    the age of twenty were unable to read or write. Between the ages of twenty and
                    twenty-nine, 1300 were unable to read or write; between thirty and thirty-nine,
                    903; and above forty, 332; making a total of 2,573 Ohioans living in northern
                    Indiana in 1850 who were illiterate. The total population of Buckeyes in the
                    area under consideration above the age of twenty was 19,076 of which 13.49 per
                    cent could neither read nor write. It is apparent that to a large percentage of
                    these early pioneers the development of the mind was as important as the
                    clearing of the land to raise crops. The school in a number of cases was some
                    distance from the home. Fields, dense forests, and streams had to be crossed;
                    and in addition to all this when the children arrived at the school, it was
                    necessary to pay for what little knowledge might be absorbed in the approximate
                    three months’ term. Because of the many farm and home chores which
                    awaited the boys and girls, time did not hang heavy upon their hands during
                    their long nine months’ vacation.
            Literate or illiterate, many early pioneers from 
                        Ohio
                     were doubtless filled with the spirit of adventure or the Wanderlust. Others came in the hope that in time they might
                    enjoy a higher standard of living in this new territory where it would be
                    possible to purchase more fertile land at a lower rate per acre than in 
                        Ohio
                    . Those who desired to enter the political arena may have been of
                    the opinion that the opportunities in the Hoosier State were greater than in the
                    Buckeye State where they might have to encounter considerable competition.
                    Regardless of what the reasons may have been, approximately forty-five thousand
                    Ohioans with diversified backgrounds had chosen northern Indiana by 1850. Some
                    came in ox-drawn wagons as small colonies or families, and the more adventurous
                    unattached came on foot, knapsack on back. The majority of the immigrants were
                    young, and, no doubt, possessed the energy and foresight to overcome such
                    barriers as existed on the frontier. Once in Indiana many Ohioans entered upon a
                    political career on the local level. Only a small number, however, were
                    successful in obtaining a role in administering the affairs of the state.
         
         
         
            Documents
            An Indiana Doctor Marches With Sherman: The Diary of James Comfort Patten1
            
            
                    Robert G. Athearn*
               
                
            On April 12, 1864, Dr. James Comfort Patten, of 
                        Princeton
                    , Indiana, received the commission of Assistant Surgeon of the 58th
                    Indiana Volunteers. His training and qualifications consisted of two
                    years’ study at the 
                        Ohio
                     Medical College (1847-1849) followed by fifteen years of practice.
            Immediately after the Civil War, Patten studied at the 
                        Evansville
                     Medical College, in his home state; upon graduation he resumed
                    practice at 
                        Princeton
                    . He later moved to Francisco, residing there until his death in
                        1903.2
            
            As soon as the thirty-eight year old doctor received his military commission, he
                    set off to join his regiment.3 Because of a series of delays
                    and misdirections, which amounted to a comedy of errors, he was unable to find
                    it until the end of the month of April. On May 2, he wrote from 
                        Chattanooga
                    : 
                  
                     
                        "I have at last succeeded in unwinding sufficient red
                                    tape to get mustered into the service."
                     
                  
                The delay had cost him half a month's pay.
            The 58th Indiana was attached to the Seventeenth Army Corps commanded by Major
                    General Frank P. Blair, Jr. The regiment was a part of the "Left
                    Wing" of the Corps, under the command of Major General Henry W. Slocum,
                    made up of the 58th Indiana Pontoniers and the 1st 
                        Michigan
                     Engineers. The Indiana regiment's work in bridging streams
                    by means of portable canvas pontoons brought praise from the Chief Engineer of
                    the Military Division of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , who wrote of the two pontoon trains in charge of the 58th 
                  
                     * Robert G. Athearn is Associate
                            Professor of History at the University of 
                                Colorado
                            , Boulder, 
                                Colorado
                            .
                  
                     1 The James Comfort Patten diary manuscript is in
                            the possession of Lewis B. Patten, 
                                Denver
                            , 
                                Colorado
                            .
                  
                     2 Patten was born near 
                                Columbia
                            , 
                                Tennessee
                            , on March 2, 1826, and died on February 19, 1903. 
                                Princeton
                            
                            Clarion, February 20, 1903.
                  
                     3 In September, 1861, a number of 
                                Princeton
                             citizens sent a petition to Governor Oliver P. Morton,
                            asking permission to raise a volunteer regiment. The request was
                            favorably received and the number assigned to the new regiment was the
                            58th Indiana.
               
                     Indiana Volunteers and the First 
                        Missouri
                     Engineers: "Their efficiency became a subject of remark
                    throughout the army."4
            
            On May 5, the regiment moved toward Ringgold, 
                        Georgia
                    , in the general movement on 
                        Atlanta
                    . Dr. Patten, working under Dr. Samuel E. Holtzman, whose recent
                    promotion had made a place for Patten in the organization, now began his active
                    military experience. General William T. Sherman's army was in 
                        Marietta
                    , 
                        Georgia
                    , and the giant pincers maneuver which would end the war was fully
                    under way by July 4, 1864, when the diary begins:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        July 4th [1864]
                        
                        Moved into 
                                        MariettaJuly 4th [1864]
                                     and our regt camped in the spacious front yard of
                                    one of the Aristocratic mansions of the place. There were many
                                    fine shade trees and altogether it was a very pleasant
                                    camp…. 
                                        Marietta
                                     is a very fine place a sort of headquarters for the
                                    aristocracy of this part of Ga. It is laid off in large lots
                                    with plenty of shade and a great deal of fine shrubbery and
                                    flowers in abundance and fine dwellings the business houses are
                                    also very good. The State Military College of Ga. is located
                                    here. It is a very fine looking establishment seen from the
                                    outside, and our men say that the prospect from the top is grand
                                    and beautiful…. We only spent one night in this
                                    place.
                     
                  
               
                
            [During the next few days the diarist was on the march, toward the Chattahoochee
                    River. His notes simply record the distances covered.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        July 10th
                        Roused up at half past two and got Breakfast and staPted on the
                                    march about noon we reached Soap Creek near where it runs into
                                    the Chattahoochee. Here we put together some boats and launched
                                    them in the creek…. While the men were putting the
                                    boats together [Private] Jos Wilson tried to make soma coffee
                                    away back half a mile in the rear and as far to the right. But
                                    our smoke soon drew the attention of the enemy, and the
                                    explosion of a shell not far off gave us notice to quit. We were
                                    too hungry to give it up so, and so after a bit another shell
                                    repeated the warning and was immediately followed by an order
                                    from our Brigade Commander to put out our fires, of course it
                                    was done and we had to rest content with crackers and raw meat.
                                    But hunger is a, good sauce and we ate it with a good
                                    relish….
                        
                           
                              4 Captain Orlando M. Poe to Brigadier
                                        General R. Delafield, December 26, 1864, The
                                            War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official
                                            Records of the Union and Confederate Armies (70
                                        vols., 
                                            Washington
                                        , 1880-1901), Series 1, XLIV (1893), 58.
                        
                        
                        We have very good water here, but the men are suffering for the
                                    want of fresh vegetables. Dr. Holtzman procured a keg of
                                    cucumber pickles from the sanitary rooms [
                                        United States
                                     Sanitary Commission] at 
                                        Marietta
                                     but when they were opened we found that instead of
                                    vinegar they were put up in Brine. That made no difference,
                                    however, for they were snapped up and eaten, as if they had been
                                    the greatest luxury in the word. For my part although I never
                                    eat them at home, I did not stop to think whether I was acting
                                    fairly or not but devoured a whole one at once. On counting
                                    however, I found that I had got more than my share, as there was
                                    only half a pickle for each man. I of course felt mean but said
                                    nothing about it.
                     
                  
               
                
            [On July 22 the troops broke camp and resumed their march. On the 24th they
                    arrived at a place the diarist calls "the r r bridge" and made
                    another camp, on the Chattahoochee; there they remianed until August 24 when
                    they were ordered to proceeed to Sandtown, about ten miles down river, to lay a
                    bridge for General Kilpatrick's cavalry to cross. The 58th Indiana
                    remained for a few days after Kilpatrick and his 5,000 cavalry had made the
                    crossing. On August 25th the troops left Standtown, marching once more in a
                    southerly direction.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        August 28th.
                        Moved on till late at night and pitched our tents in an old
                                    field. Dr. Holtzman and I carried some straight rails and made
                                    our beds on them and then plucked a 
                                        Georgia
                                     Goose, as gathering pine brush is called here, and
                                    slept well. Next morning—the 29th—all
                                    hands went to work to straighten up the camp, thinking probably
                                    we might stay for some time. While in the midst of this job, the
                                    order came to strike tents and fall in, which was done at onnce.
                                    Those who had not got their share of the work done could now
                                    laugh at those who had. We now moved on and camped near night on
                                    the 
                                        Montgomery
                                     r.r. Our troops spent the next day, the 30th
                                    tearing up the road and burning the ties and bending the rails
                                    across the heap of burnign ties and as they became red hot in
                                    the middle the weight of the ends would bend them so as to be
                                    unfit for use5.…
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  5 Chaplain John J. Hight, of the 58th, wrote that
                        "some fifteen or twenty-five miles of the road were effectually
                        destroyed." John J. Hight, History of the Fifty-Eight
                            Regiment of Indiana Volunter Infantry (
                            Princeton
                        , Indiana, 1895), 365.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Sept 2nd
                        Again ordered forward, and heard that we had the rebel army cut
                                    in two. We went on, occasionally meeting trains of ambulances,
                                    with wounded men going to the hospitals. We crossed Flint River
                                    near its head where it is not more than twenty feet wide and
                                    soon came to the Battle ground.6 Our dead
                                    and wounded were all taken away but a detail of our men were
                                    busy burying the rebels and had most of it done. Our line of
                                    march did not take us oven the worst of the field and I did not
                                    see any of them., Some of the men passed where the burying party
                                    were at work about a hundred yards to our right and their
                                    description of the scene is sufficient the rebels at one time
                                    made an attempt to charge and storm our batteries and rifle
                                    pits. This did not of course last many minutes and occasioned
                                    but little loss to us. But the slaughter on their side was
                                    awful. It is said that nine hundred of them lay in a space of
                                    less than two acres. A little further on we came to 
                                        Jonesborough
                                     and went through, the band playing hail 
                                        Columbia
                                    , a tune that I suppose the inhabitants had not been
                                    much used to of late. Our men had torn up the r.r. here very
                                    badly. It has been a very pretty town but there is a look of
                                    Desolation on it now that is pitiful…. Some of the
                                    people were there but many had left. On the far end of the town
                                    we saw the ruins of a large mill…. We went on down
                                    the r.r. till we passed a mile post marked 25 miles to 
                                        Atlanta
                                     and 78 miles to 
                                        Macon
                                    , we went on a half a mile, and turned into an old
                                    field and camped….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Sept 4th (Sunday).
                        Started at noon and marched back through 
                                        Jonesborough
                                    , on to rough and ready station where we camped in a
                                    field, and the inevitable rail was as usual called into
                                    requisition, softened in my case as usual by the down of the 
                                        Georgia
                                     Goose, alias pine brush. While I was plucking my
                                    goose an order came up to me and told me that Colonel Buel7 wished me to see a sick woman in a house a
                                    little way back. I went of course, and found her very low with
                                    typhoid fever, of twenty one days standing. Her daughter
                                    informed me that they lived in 
                                        Atlanta
                                     but that our shelling had driven them out and they
                                    came there and were unable to get her back, on account of her
                                    sickness. Some Dr. had been attending her, but he was now gone.
                                    I gave her 
                              
                                 6 The Battle of 
                                                Jonesboro
                                             which decided the fate of 
                                                Atlanta
                                            .
                              
                                 7 Colonel George P. Buell,
                                            commanding officer of the 58th Indiana.
                           
                                     some medicine but advised
                                    the girl not to promise herself too much as the prospect was by
                                    no means favorable. I did not see her again for we were called
                                    up at three o'clock next morning and were on the road
                                    at four.8
                        
                        The r.r. from 
                                        Jonesborough
                                     to this station is utterly ruined. The ties burned
                                    and the rails bent I saw one rail bent entirely round a tree of
                                    course the heat of the rail would kill the tree but if it had
                                    not the compression would have done so before many years. I saw
                                    another bent in the same way round a telegraph pole.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Sept 5th
                        Our men are rejoicing in the fact that this is the day of the
                                    draft and hoping that some of their copperhead neighbors may
                                    draw their fortunes today in uncle Sam's lottery, where
                                    all have a chance and don't have to pay anything for
                                    their tickets. I hope some men I could name may have to come
                                    out. I want to see them with a gun on their shoulder. They have
                                    been wearing the uniform long enough and doing nothing for their
                                    country and I know that nothing short of a draft will bring out
                                    men who have no more spunk than to abuse the soldier and the
                                    cause he is fighting for while at the same timq they will wear
                                    his cast off clothes. I wonder how they will stand fire. I would
                                    like very much to see them tried. We marched on till we came in
                                    sight of the rebel works around 
                                        Atlanta
                                    . Here I saw the most pitiful sight I have ever yet
                                    witnessed. A young looking woman was at work by the roadside
                                    skinning a cow that had been killed and a little girl some six
                                    or seven years old had a piece of the raw bloody meat in both
                                    hands devouring it with the eagerness of a starving dog. I could
                                    see the leaders in this thing starve but the poor
                                    children—.
                        We soon came in sight of 
                                        Atlanta
                                     and here all of a sudden Col. Buel concluded that
                                    we must begin to put on style and show off. He began to scold
                                    because the men had their coats off. He wore a light linen one
                                    himself. The men naturally did not like it to be abused so
                                    unreasonably, when they were not in fault, and so when showing
                                    off time came they became very awkward. One who did not know
                                    might have thought 
                              
                                 8 "Many of the country
                                            people call on Dr. Fatten for medicine and medical
                                            attention," wrote Chaplain Hight, toward the
                                            end of September. "It is unsafe for him to be
                                            riding about the country, hence he refuses all oalls for
                                            visiting outside of camp. He gives out medicines,
                                            although his supply is small." Hight, History of the Fifty-Eighth Regiment,
                                            373.
                           
                                     them not half drilled. The
                                    Col looking along the line had his anger stirred by the sight of
                                    a man going through the manual with his gun wrong end up. He was
                                    almost ready to burst. He fairly boiled over, and putting spurs
                                    to his horse went for him. When he got there he could not tell
                                    which man it was for all was right when he got there and no one
                                    knew anything about him. The Soldiers are all know nothings. He
                                    was mad but how could he help himself. I am glad he did not ask
                                    me who it was for I would not have told him nor would I have
                                    denied knowing, and at thq same time I did not want any fusa
                                    with him. We got in order at last and the Col who would be a
                                    Brigadier, rode away with his staff as proud as a kitten with
                                    two tails. He rode straight on through the city and the regt
                                    following in such order as pleased themselves and the officers
                                    could not see it for they sympathized with the men in the whole
                                    matter. My own opinion is that the Colonel had a canteen of
                                    something stronger than coffee. The City is about the size of 
                                        Evansville
                                     [Indiana] and is terribly shattered. I had often
                                    heard of the terrors of a bombardment of a crowded city but I
                                    never realized it before. Houses were shattered and torn in
                                    every shape that can be imagined, some utterly destroyed and
                                    some but little injured. Some had shell through the doors, some
                                    places the shell had burst inside of a house and torn it all to
                                        pieces.9 After seeing the destruction I
                                    no longer wondered at the insane fury with which they charged
                                    our works, rushing on as they often did with their hats pulled
                                    down over their eyes so that they could not see the certain
                                    destruction that awaited them. I am glad that I have taken part
                                    in this campaign. I would not for a great deal have missed that
                                    ride through 
                                        Atlanta
                                    . It almost paid me for the whole campaign.
                        We passed through and halted outside of the works. They had an
                                    ingenious contrivance to keep the line from being stormed, a
                                    sort of a revolving Cheveaux de Friese [Chevaux de Frise] all
                                    along the front of their works so that when our men should
                                    attempt to climb over it would turn, and let them 
                              
                                 9 Captain Alfred Lacey Hough, who
                                            was in 
                                                Atlanta
                                             at this time, recorded that 
                                    
                                       
                                          "abut one half of the city shows
                                                  the marks of our shells, the house we
                                                  mess in has five holes through it, the
                                                  one I live in has only one some houses
                                                  are perfectly riddled."
                                       
                                    
                                  Alfred Lacey Hough to Mary Hough, September 18,
                                            1864, Hough. Papers (Unpublished letters in the
                                            possession of John N. Hough, University of 
                                                Colorado
                                            , Boulder, 
                                                Colorado
                                            ).
                           
                                     fall backwards and another
                                    row of stakes presented when he tried again to climb with the
                                    same result. Our works and those of the rebs were in some places
                                    but a few yards apart. Truly the Spade wins more Battles than
                                    the sword. We got our dinner and then marched on (having
                                    received the first mails for ten days) for the railroad bridge
                                    which we reached after an absence of twenty two
                                    days….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Sept. 8th
                        I suppose we will stay here for a good while for we are building
                                    shops and storehouse for the forage and commissary store and are
                                    likewise very busy putting up huts for quarters.10 I went round the fwtifications here today. They are
                                    pretty extensive and very strong and well planned, so far as I
                                    have been able to judge of such matters. I notice that they were
                                    so arranged that they cannot be raked from any outside position
                                    whatever.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Sept 9th
                        Nothing remarkable today except an order of Col Buel breaking up
                                    most of the officers messes, by ordering that in future no
                                    private or non commissioned officer should mess with any
                                    commissioned cfficer. The order aroused considerable indignation
                                    among the Officers, as it was understood to be a quiet way of
                                    charging them with living on other men's rations, a
                                    charge that they are not disposed to submit to in silence,
                                    especially coming from a man whose record is not as immaculate
                                    as snow—not quite. And our worthy
                                    Col who would be a Brigadier may perhaps find that he has
                                    stirred up a hornets nest that he will find hard to settle. The
                                    men are busy cleaning up camp and making preparations for a long
                                    stay. Some of them are building comfortable shanties that would
                                    do very well for winter quarters.11
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Sept. 11th Sunday.
                        Had preaching by Bryant who gave us a pretty good discourse. It
                                    is a lovely day rather hot but still pleasant. I sat in the
                                    shade on a pine box and listened to the discourse as well as I
                                    could but somehow I would still catch my mind running off to the
                                    church in 
                                        Princeton
                                     and 
                              
                                 10 "The line officers
                                            usually have huts, covered with condemned boat canvas.
                                            This is dirty, from long use beneath the surface of the
                                            water, but it is water proof. The line also has a number
                                            of cook shanties. Usually, there are from four to six
                                            officers in a mess." Hight, History of the Fifty-Eighth Regiment, 367.
                              
                                 11 In September, 1864, Captain
                                            Alfred Lacey Hough wrote: 
                                    
                                       
                                          "The houses on the outskirts of
                                                  the city are being torn down to furnish
                                                  lumber for the soldiers’
                                                  huts, and I could not but think of how
                                                  little these people knew what war would
                                                  be when they commenced it."
                                                  
                                       
                                    
                                 Alfred Lacey Hough to Mary Hough, September 21,
                                            1864, Hough Papers.
                           
                                     then the group of blue
                                    coats around me would fade away and instead of them would come
                                    up the familiar faces of the congregation at home and I could
                                    almost feel Morgan12 leaning his head on my
                                    knee to go to sleep. I can't help wishing many a time
                                    that I could be back at such times in the old congregation. But
                                    then I think again this is all wrong…. If God had
                                    intended me to stay there he would have left me there instead of
                                    sending me out here. And so I will try and await patiently the
                                    result, but I hope that it will not be long delayed and that our
                                    next news may come to us as good as that which we have been able
                                    to send from here. I hope that Grant in his place may have as
                                    good success as Sherman the crazy has here. He may be very crazy
                                    but I guess the rebs think by this time that there is almost too
                                    much method in his madness and that if he is crazy, save them
                                    from the grasp of one who is sane….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Sept.] 14th… 
                        The cars run by us here just in sight of our camp. We can see
                                    that they are swarming with men moving to the front. Gen Sherman
                                    is evidently strengthening himself for some important movement,
                                    but what it is, or where he is going to take us is more than we
                                    can guess. We may go to Mobile or 
                                        Charleston
                                     or 
                                        Richmond
                                    .13 We would like to know, and I
                                    doubt not that gen Hood would like it better than even we
                                    would….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Sept. 14th to 20th.
                        Nothing of any interest. We have almost daily visits from the
                                    women froh a good many miles round bringing in vegetables to
                                    barter for something to eat. They will not take money but want
                                        bread or flour or meat. They say that
                                    money would be worthless to them as there is no place that they
                                    would be able to buy anything with it. They tell some pitiful
                                    stories of starving children, and the worst is that they are
                                    true. I have seen some things that I never expected to see and,
                                    I hope I may see no more such….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Sept.] 24th…
                        We stiIl hear occasionally from home and the news is rather more
                                    cheerful. Our work here at 
                                        Atlanta
                                     has had a good effect on the traitors at home, they
                                    begin to think, that we will soon have the rebellion crushed
                                        
                              
                                 12 His second eldest son.
                              
                                 13 Chaplain Hight thought they
                                            were going to 
                                                Richmond
                                             and noted that "if a part of this
                                            army does not go to 
                                                Richmond
                                            , it should. Naw is the time to overturn
                                            this slave-holding empire." Hight, History of the Fifty-Eighth Regiment,
                                        372.
                           
                                     here, and then for the
                                    traitors at home. They already begin to shake in their shoes for
                                    they feel that they have lost the game on which they have staked
                                    their country and the Birthright of their children. And they
                                    even now begin to feel the weight of that infamy that will ever
                                    be a traitor's doom, knowing full well that their names
                                    will go down to posterity so blackened that Arnold will pass for
                                    a patriot and Iscariot for an honest man by comparison with
                                    them….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Sept.] 26th.
                        A good many women came in as usual to trade for something to eat.
                                    Some of them bring in beans, some chinkapins and muscadines,
                                    while some I have reason to believe resort to more questionable
                                    means of obtaining the desired food. But who shall blame them,
                                    when their children are starving. Shame on the man who will take
                                    this advantage. But I have no doubt it is done every day, and
                                    that too by men whose position should be the guarantee of their
                                    good conduct. There is whiskey in camp again and such a time as
                                    we will have while it lasts. I wish our commanding officers
                                    could once get it beat into their heads that whiskey is an
                                    unmitigated nuisance….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Oct 4th…
                        The Women still come in to trade but our stock is rather short
                                    and we will soon have nothing to trade. A little girl wanted to
                                    sell me some muscadines yesterday. I offered her the money for
                                    them but she said she could not eat money, and as I had nothing
                                    else, we did not trade. I shall be glad when we get out of this
                                    for I am tired of war and all its sights and sounds. I
                                    don't think I shall ever want to heal. another Bugle
                                    Call, or to see another six mule team. Some of the men are
                                    making a little speculation in tobacco. John Clark bought a
                                    hundred dollars worth yesterday and today sold out for one
                                    hundred and forty, a pretty good move for one day. Some of the
                                    others have done equally as well. [Sergeant] John Farmer, I
                                    suppose has made more money out here than he could possibly have
                                    done at home….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Oct 5th…
                        Some women are in camp trading. They have a little boy about
                                    three years old along. As they start out he sings out goodbye
                                    Yankee. These natives are known among the soldiers by the name
                                    of Elm Peelers. Some of the men have got a receipe for making
                                    muscadine pies. They say that it was given them by one of the
                                    natives. The principal and most interesting part of the process
                                    is the seeding of the fruit which is done by sucking out the
                                    soft part of the fruit and 
                                    leaving the tough leathery skin to make the pie of. Our Major
                                    calls them squirrel skin pies. Some of these people are neat in
                                    their appearance and show some little trace of refinement but
                                    most of them are about as slouchy a set of birds as I have ever
                                    seen anywhere. Some of the men have a good deal of sport with
                                    them but for my part when I think of the way they treated our
                                    men who passed long here after Chickamauga, I don't
                                    feel like associating with such a set of She devils. The Chaplin
                                    and Col [Joseph] Moore [of Francisco, Indiana] stand back and
                                    look as if they were afraid the creatures would touch them and I
                                    suppose I look the same way to them.14
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Oct. 6th
                        Some contrabands15 came in today who state
                                    that they came from 60 miles beyond 
                                        Atlanta
                                    . I saw one of them eat. The cook gave him some oold
                                    coffee, he smacked his lips and said it was the first he had
                                    seen since the war began.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Oct.] 7th
                        Had another big scare in camp about being attacked and went to
                                    fortifying, but as Col. Buel was gone we took things easy, and
                                    made no attempt to kill ourselves or each, other…. We
                                    get very little news from the front but what little there is is
                                    encouraging. The report yesterday was that gen. Thomas had
                                    captured two brig'ds of infty & 2 regts cav. We
                                    can today sometimes hear cannon in the distance and repoft says
                                    that the fight is at Allatoona, also that the Johnnies are badly
                                    whipped and that Gen. Sherman is driving them
                                    northward….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Oct 8th
                        Turned cool in the night and this morning I find the men with
                                    overcoats on and standing round the fires like midwinter. Even I
                                    found a heavy coat very comfortable…. There is a man
                                    in camp who once belonged to the 42nd Ind., and had his leg shot
                                    away at the battle of Perrysville [
                                        Kentucky
                                    , 
                              
                                 14 The Chaplain recorded his own
                                            reaction to the natives in his book. "Our camp
                                            is daily visited by women, children, and a few men. They
                                            are nearly all lean, lank, cadaverous people. They sell
                                            butter, butter milk, green beans, chickens, bomatoes,
                                            muscadine grapes, etc. They exchange these things for
                                            our rations. As we cannot buy for cash, we cannot
                                            purchase very extensively. The people in these parts are
                                            pretty well starved for the necessities of life. It is
                                            this that drives them to this trade. Some come in
                                            begging, and they tell most pitiful tales. We cannot
                                            give them much, as we do not care to feed the women and
                                            children of men, who are lying in the bushes and
                                            attempting to cut the railroad which brings the food.
                                            Can anything be more ridiculous than for these women to
                                            come snubbing about our camp, while their lantern-jawed
                                            lords are lying in ambush to shoot
                                            us?" Ibid., 373.
                              
                                 15 Negroes.
                           
                                     October 8, 1862]. He has a
                                    peep show of different stereoscopic views. He has been with the
                                    army all through this campaign and I have been told that he has
                                    made it quite profitable….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Oct 10th…
                        A lot of women came into camp begging for something to eat today.
                                    One of our officers asked one of them if there were any rebels
                                    near where she lived. If there were I would not tell you was the
                                    reply. They are venomous. We give them not much comfort for we
                                    don't like to furnish them with Bread and divide with
                                    bushwhackers who lie around to pick off our men and I
                                    don't see the propriety of feeding them while they
                                    starve our men in prison….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Oct 12th….
                        We are all anxious now for news from the old Hoosier state as the
                                    election came off yesterday and we are all anxious to know
                                    whether the Traitors can triumph in our homes. Our men were all
                                    anxious to vote just to show the villains that the Hoosier
                                    soldiers know how to appreciate both their friends and enemies
                                    and that they are not to be caught by the whining and fawning of
                                    a set of Traitors that prefer party triumphs to the good of
                                    their country and don't care how many of us loose [sic] our lives so that they keep clear of the
                                    draft and the irrepressible nigger. The men are anxious to know
                                    who is drafted and almost every one can tell of some that he
                                    hopes may have drawn a prize in Uncle Sam's
                                    lottery….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Oct 15th…
                        News has just come to us from the draft at home and it is
                                    received wifh shouts of applause as some one read over the
                                    names. It was a scene worth seeing as one or other recognized
                                    the names of some of their acquaintances. Such a shout is not
                                    often heard as went up when they read the names of some of the
                                    prominent traitors at home, not so loud but hearty and
                                    accompanied with many gestures of intense
                                    satisfaction….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Oct 25th…
                        Dr. Holtzman and I spent the day yesterday fixing up our quarters
                                    for winter. We put down timbers on the ground and laid a floor
                                    of planks on them, and built up a couple of bunks one over the
                                    other. He sleeps in the upper one and I sleep in the lower. I
                                    think in some respects I have got rather the advantage of him in
                                    this arrangement as the nearer we get to the ground the warmer
                                    we sleep. I have got some pine forks and sawed them off and
                                    nailed boards  on the butt
                                    ends and they make most excellent stools. If I could do so I
                                    think I should send one of them home as a curiosity, a kind of
                                    specimen of camp life. I am going to pluck a 
                                        Georgia
                                     Goose, or in plain English, I am going to get some
                                    pine brush and lay it in my bunk. It; is as good as straw for a
                                    bed. If we stay here this winter we can make ourselves very
                                    comfortable but if we have to move much we will have a hard time
                                    of it. But no matter, we are no Feather bed Soldiers and we did
                                    not expect the comforts of a home down here among the Heathen.
                                    Our people fare right royally compared to Hoods army. They are
                                    cut off from any base of supplies and have to live off the
                                    country and that is a very poor dependence. A few days ago we
                                    captured one of his supply trains and it was entirely loaded
                                    with sorghum. We learned that this green cane was almost the
                                    entire subsistence of his men, each one taking a stalk and
                                    eating as they go. Unless they get out into a country where they
                                    can get better food I think they will surely be compelled to
                                    submit. Gen Sherman at the last account was still crowding
                                    mercilessly on their rear and by this time I hope he has them
                                    completely demoralized. I feel pretty certain that so far as
                                    this part of Dixie is concerned we have the game all in our own
                                    hands, except the annoyance of occasional guerilla bands who
                                    steal our stock and pick up stragglers, but even this has the
                                    good effect of keeping our men from leaving camp and straying
                                    round all over the country as some of them would be sure to do
                                    if they were not in the way….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Nov 3d…
                        There is great talk of a move about to be made, some say to
                                    Mobile, some to Savannah and some to 
                                        Charleston
                                    . For my part I don't care much. So far as
                                    I have any choice I rather prefer 
                                        Charleston
                                    ….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Nov.] 11th…
                        Some of our conscripts are coming in daily and I think before
                                    long they, will all be here. They are as a general rule a better
                                    set of men than we looked for and look well.16 There is one old fellow among them who is over age but
                                    some time back he wanted to get a young wife, and 
                              
                                 16 Hight was not so charitable in
                                            his comment. "The conscripts, on the average,
                                            are larger and older men than the volunteers. There is
                                            not as much life and enthusiasm depicted on their
                                            countenances. They are not the men, to be carried away
                                            by the music of a fife and drum, or the flapping of the
                                            star-spangled banner. They are men who have fully
                                            meditated on bullets and chronic diarrhoea, and remained
                                            at home." Hight, History of the
                                                Fifty-Eighth Regiment, 403.
                           
                                     represented himself as
                                    being several years younger than he really was. This did very
                                    well then but when the draft came he did not find it quite so
                                    funny for the authorities took him at his own valuation, and
                                    sent him down here to meditate at his leisure on the benefits of
                                    misrepresentation and the other conscripts are having more fun
                                    out of him than if he was a circus. The signs of some great
                                    movement are getting stronger every day. Shermans army is coming
                                    on and will most probably begin to cross here today or tomorrow.
                                    And then away down further into the heart, of Dixie and perhaps
                                    to the Atlantic or Gulf Coast….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Nov 13
                        Last night we could see fires all along the r.r. where our men
                                    were destroying the track. Today a great many troops passed us
                                    on the way to the front and this evening four hundred men were
                                    sent from the 18th to destroy the r.r. bridge which they
                                    accomplished in four hours. About 40 axe men cut the braces and
                                    the rest pulled it down with ropes. It is rumored that we march
                                    at 5 in the morning.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Nov.] 14
                        Started on the grand raid. We were astir early in the morning,
                                    packed up what we intended to carry along and left the rest in
                                    our huts. We then set fire to them and at twelve all our houses,
                                    shops and stables were in ashes….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Nov. 15 
                        Had orders to move at 5 o'clock, the train being
                                    divided, Col Buel taking 6 Co's and Col [Joseph] Moore
                                    4. I went with Col Moore. We were ready and on the road at the
                                    hour (the other pa& waiting till next day) but we were
                                    delayed by trains passing till after noon, when we moved out to 
                                        Decatur
                                    
                           17 and by dark had passed that
                                    place 4 miles. Here we began to find a more level country. We
                                    could see 
                                        Atlanta
                                     burning. I looked at my watch and could sea the
                                    time very plainly at a distance of ten miles. The trains kept
                                    halting and starting and, [Brigadier] Gen [William T.] Ward
                                    being in liquor and out of patience, came and abused Col Moore
                                    for stopping. In this way we marched all night and got into camp
                                    just as the advance were eating breakfast.
                     
                  
               
                
            [From November 15 to December 2, the diarist was on the road, and his comments
                    comprise only notations concerning his geographical location. He was in the
                    state capital, 
                  
                     17 "
                                Decatur
                             is a dilapidated old village. The wooden houses are marked
                            with age, and the commons are thickly set with grass. Only a few of the
                            citizens remain," Ibid., 413.
               
                     Milledgeville, on November 23 and
                    commented, 
                  
                     
                        "A poor town it is for a capital."
                     
                  
               ]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Dec.] 2nd.
                        Moved on through a fine country. Passed a splendid mansion in the
                                    midst of a large plantation, one of the most aristocratic places
                                    I have seen. There was a long avenue of trees of several kinds
                                    that I did not know…. The avenue extended 1/2 mile on
                                    each side of the house. There was a new made grave in the garden
                                    and some of the men being suspicious opened it and found that it
                                    contained quilts and clothing boxed up. One old rebel in this
                                    neighborhood told some of the men that he honestly thought the
                                    war was going on all right and that they were using up the
                                    Yankees rapidly till he saw us coming. The people here have a
                                    fashion of putting their churches on some spot that is good for
                                    nothing else. At Davisboro for instance it is out of town on the
                                    opposite side of a big swamp on a little tongue of land that
                                    runs out into the swamp that could not be profitably used any
                                    other way unless for a hog pen. In another place we found one, a
                                    very nice building too just at the edge of a swamp and no other
                                    buildings in a mile. This country is very thinly settled, the
                                    plantations being very large and the houses from 2 to 3 miles
                                    apart.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Dec.] 3d.
                        Moved on over pine Barrens along the bank of a very pretty
                                    lake… the banks and shallows covered with cypress and
                                    it in turn draped with strange looking Spanish moss. The romance
                                    of the thing was at length knocked in the head by coming to a
                                    mill dam and finding that our lovely lake was only a very common
                                    place mill pond on a little creek and owing to the level country
                                    it had spread out over a great space. We soon destroyed the
                                    whole affair and went on our way meditating on the way these
                                    southern gentlemen are going to ride through the north armed
                                    with plantation whips as soon as they can get the southern heart
                                    sufficiently fired. Some of our men went off the road to the
                                    Stockade prison where they kept our men. They describe it as a
                                    horrible place, filthy in the extreme and with no shelter for
                                    the prisoners except mud huts that they built themselves. Our
                                    men counted 650 graves in the prison enclosure. They were thrown
                                    in and covered about three feet with earth. The prisoners got
                                    water out of the swamp on which the prison was placed. The
                                    prison itself was an enclosure of several acres, the fence being
                                    made of twenty foot logs set on end  close together six feet in the
                                    ground. We crossed Buckhead yesterday evening and today we
                                    destroyed the Savannah & Augusta R.R. so far as it lay
                                    in our reach….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Dec.] 9th
                        Moved on to Eden, and stopped for dinner. Looked in vain for the
                                    garden. Saw instead a dilapidated church and a grave yard. Still
                                    the same sandy plain with cypress swamps interspersed and the
                                    dry land covered with pine. Towards evening the land seems
                                    better…. The mile posts this evening indicated that
                                    we are within sixteen miles of Savannah. There has been heavy
                                    firing in that direction all day probably from the fleet.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Dec.] 10th
                        Moved on ten miles and crossed the r.r. which we of course
                                    destroyed. The swamps get deeper and wider. The R.R. runs much
                                    of the way on trestle-work. The dirt road is wide enough for two
                                    waggons and is as fine a road as I ever saw. Almost every man is
                                    eating sugar cane which is getting very plentiful. We passed a
                                    large plantation yesterday. The quarters looked neat and there
                                    was a church for the Slaves where doubtless they were taught the
                                    fundamental doctrine of justice of Slavery. Not far off was a
                                    church for white folks. The men went for everything movable. I
                                    doubt not the owner thinks the Yanks are a hard set. We are now
                                    within five miles of Savannah and there is heavy firing in
                                    front. We have passed some of their works.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Dec.] 11th.
                        Moved down the bank of the river in company with the other
                                    division of the train. They’ seem to have had a
                                    rather hard time of it; short rations. Gen. [Jeff. C.] Davis 18 seems to be rather a hard customer. Would
                                    not let the men forage. He did a most dastardly trick with the
                                    negroes that were following his corps. He took up the bridges
                                    and left them in the hands of the enemy. Some of the old men and
                                    women and children were drowned in trying to get over on logs,
                                    the enemy being too near to allow them to make any kind of
                                    rafts. If I had the power I would have him as high as Haman.19 There is great indignation among the
                                    troops. I 
                              
                                 18 General Jefferson C. Davis was
                                            born in 
                                                Clark County
                                            , Indiana. He was promoted Brigadier
                                            General, 
                                                United States
                                             Volunteers, December 18, 1861; brevetted
                                            Major General, August 8, 1864. (Report of
                                                the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana (8
                                            vols., 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1866-1869), II, 210. He commanded the
                                            Fourteenth Corps during Sherman's march to the
                                            sea.
                              
                                 19 The Chaplain was as angered
                                            over the affair as Dr. Patten. Calling the abandonment
                                            of the colored refugees "a scbne disgraceful to
                                            American history," Hight bitterly castigated
                                            Davis: "He is a military tyrant, without one
                                            sark of humanity in his make-up." Hight, History of the Fifty-Eighth Regiment,
                                            426.
                           
                                     should not wonder if the
                                    valiant murderers of women and children should meet with an
                                    accident before long. We are now camped on a great rice
                                    plantation. The rice is in stacks and makes good horse
                                    feed….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Dec.] 14th
                        This morning moved camp a little nearer the river and the
                                    regiment was again thrown together as before we left 
                                        Atlanta
                                    . Some of our men were detailed to run the steamboat
                                    that was captured the other day. By the way there was some
                                    dispute as to who captured her. The Artillerists claimed the
                                    honor and a Col of infantry who was on the island rushed on
                                    board with his men and claimed the boat. Gen Slocum sent Col
                                    Buel with men and rope to help tow her over to this side of the
                                    river but as soon as Capt Smith went on board the Col on the
                                    boat cursed him and ordered him off. Capt Smith told him if he
                                    could not treat him as a gentleman he might get across the best
                                    he could. The Cd finding the kind of a man he had to deal with
                                    backed down; and tried to excuse himself on the ground that he
                                    mistook him for a private. This of course did not mend the
                                    matter for it only showed him a dog by his own
                                    statement….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Dec.] 18th….
                        When we get through this job I expect we will turn and pay South
                                    Carolina a visit, and I think our welcome will be anything but
                                    cordial. I think that they will be able to see our track for a
                                    generation to come. We have laid a heavy hand on 
                                        Georgia
                                    , but that is light compared to what S.C. will
                                    catch. Very often when we have been destroying property the
                                    women would say "Well, I don't care, if you
                                    will only serve South Carolina the same way for they got us into
                                    this scrape" and the men would say Never mind, we
                                    won't leave anything there. We will make it a
                                    desert….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Dec.] 24th.
                        We arrived in the city20 day before
                                    yesterday. The wind was from the north and as usual seemed to
                                    come the shortest way. The cold here when it does come is as
                                    hard to bear as it is at home. The ground froze a little and the
                                    wind seemed to reach to the bones, wood was hard to get and what
                                    we did get was very poor and would hardly burn at all. Seemed to
                                    me that it would be good material for fireproof
                                    buildings…. This is a fine town—some of it
                                    very old. There is a very fine monument to 
                                        Pulaski
                                     here, the gallant 
                              
                                 20 Savannah, 
                                                Georgia
                                            .
                           
                                     Pole who died for American
                                        Liberty.21 The inhabitants are proud of
                                    it but at the same time they have been exposing their lives for
                                    American slavery. I have not been over much of the city yet.
                                    What I have seen of the business part of the town is well built
                                    and well arranged except that many of the streets are too narrow
                                    for any convenience. It is reported that we captured supplies
                                    enough to last our force twenty days….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Dec.] 28th
                        We have free communication with the coast now and the wharf
                                    presents quite a lively scene Steamboats coming and going,
                                    bringing rations and carrying away cotton and rice, etc. A. good
                                    many sail vessels also come up. There are now three schooners
                                    lying in the river discharging freight…. After many
                                    delays and many promises the paymaster at length made his
                                    appearance today in the person of Major Fleming, but he only
                                    paid us up to the thirty-first of October, so that we are still
                                    two months behind. I really think the government is acting very
                                    shabily [sic] with us, as our wages are the
                                    same as they used to be and the government at the same time
                                    charges us three times as much for our rations and the uniform
                                    costs more than double, and on top of all this as adding insult
                                    to injury comes an income tax of eight per cent, which is
                                    retained out of our wages, so as to leave us apparently
                                    receiving higher wages than we really get…. I think a
                                    few more days will see us on our winding way, most probably for 
                                        Charleston
                                     or Augusta and perhaps eventually for 
                                        Richmond
                                    . This is what I call studying practical geography
                                    to some purpose and really no other way would give so clear an
                                    idea of the country as this. I have now wandered over a good
                                    deal of the Sacred Soil of Dixie. I have passed by dirt town and
                                    dark corner, I have been in the gate city and traversed both
                                    mountain pass and open plain, the fine plantation and the Piney
                                    woods, the dry upland and the cypress swamp, the land of cotton
                                    and the cane, the live oak grove and the rice fields and after
                                    all, day: by day I like the Hoosier state better and better so
                                    that when I once get back again, I don't think anything
                                    in this direction will 
                              
                                 21 Hight also noticed the statue,
                                            and, upon examining it more closely than did Dr. Patten,
                                            made this note: "There is, on each side, a
                                            spread eagle, resting on the shields of 
                                                Poland
                                             and 
                                                Georgia
                                            , and holding in either talon the olive
                                            branch. The insertion of the shield of 
                                                Georgia
                                             instead of that of America, for which 
                                                Pulaski
                                             fought and died, is a nianifestation of
                                            that sectional pride, which has finally led the people
                                            of this State to ruin." Hight, History of the Fifty-Eighth Regiment,
                                        447.
                           
                                     tempt me to leave it. I
                                    used to think our climate was too changeable but really it is
                                    not as bad as this. I don't envy the inhabitants of the
                                    Sunny South either their country or their climate or their
                                    institutions. I have no liking for any of them…..
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Dec.] 29th…
                        I am getting rather tired of this place and would like very much
                                    to be moving. I am very anxious to give the confederacy another
                                    blow such as the last one. I don't think the old rotten
                                    concern will stand more than one or two more of Shermans crazy
                                    spells. If they are all such as the last one I don't
                                    care how soon he takes another. I understand this place is to be
                                    garrisoned and held as a military post. This will not require
                                    much force and will stop one avenue for the blockade runners and
                                    let loose our fleet for more effectual work at other points.
                                    There are many points of interest here but I have not visited
                                    them yet.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Dec.] 30th
                        Yesterday a sloop from Nassau ran the blockade and came up to the
                                    wharf and the Capt went ashore to report to Gen. Hardee [Lieut.
                                    Gen. William J. Hardee, C.S.A.] but was surprised to find a
                                    Yankee commander in his place. He was taken in.22
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  22 "On the 31st of December, 1864, the
                        non-veterans of the regiment [58th Indiana Volunteers] were mustered out at
                        Savannah and returned home." Report of the Adjutant
                            General of the State of Indiana, II, 568. Patten is listed as
                        "Mustered out with Regiment." Ibid.,
                        560.
            
         
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Lincoln
                         Finds a General, Volume III. By Kenneth P. Williams. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Company, 1952, pp. xiii, 586. Bibliography, index,
                    maps, and illustrations. $7.50.)
            The third volume of Kenneth P. Williams’ 
                  
                            Lincoln
                         Finds a General deals with the Civil War in the West from
                    its beginning to the end of 1862. It is a book that views military history in
                    the narrowest sense. It deals only with generals and campaigns and battles. Army
                    life as it touched the common soldier and war as it affected the private citizen
                    are largely ignored. Not even as background do social-economic-political forces
                    enter. On the other hand, every move of every military unit in every situation
                    is followed in minute detail and expert judgments passed on the soundness of
                    action. No where else can so full and careful a study of this phase of the war
                    be found. Its very narrowness makes possible a thoroughness that a wider
                    approach would have denied. It also lessens its value as good history.
            Professor Williams is not an unbiased writer. He leans heavily towards the Union
                    side, and Grant is his almost faultless hero. In fact, he seems to be telling
                    his story at all times for the purpose of bringing Grant and his virtues into
                    sharper focus. It is no mean accomplishment to have told the story of
                    Grant's early life, his unhappy days in the regular army, and his
                    unsuccessful experiences in business, without bringing one drop of whiskey into
                    the telling. Nor will all readers be satisfied by the use of only favorable
                    comment on the matter of drinking in war days, and a neglect of evidence of
                    equal value on the other side. Grant's faults and weaknesses are, after
                    all, small when compared with his virtues, and they need not be ignored.
            The great value in Williams’ work comes from his clear understanding
                    of the importance of the Western campaigns in determining the final outcome of
                    the war. Victories here not only gave material advantage, they saved the
                    nation's morale. And it was here that Grant both revealed and developed
                    those qualities that had so long remained hidden under a colorless personality.
                    Here also Sherman, Halleck, Pope, and Thomas made their start. Here the
                    Confederacy started down hill.
            
            The Western story begins with the gathering of an army and the appointment of
                    officers. It moves on to the problem of securing and protecting the base at
                    Cairo and the checking of Southern aggression in 
                        Missouri
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    . Then comes the drive Southward along the 
                        Tennessee
                    , the 
                        Cumberland
                    , and the 
                        Mississippi
                    , climaxing in the great battle at 
                        Shiloh
                    .
            Williams follows these developments largely through the rise of Grant, with
                    Halleck and Buell ever in the background. He finds that Grant early showed the
                    qualities that were to make him the outstanding general on the Union side.
                    Everywhere he was stationed, he brought order out of confusion and builded
                    confidence in the soldiers. In 
                        Missouri
                    , especially at Belmont, he revealed his ability for quick
                    independent decision, and learned the great lesson that his enemies were as
                    frightened as he himself. He began to make those terse yet forceful reports and
                    to make it perfectly clear that he was willing to fight battles and take chances
                    after adequate preparation. Halleck disliked him and did not always give him
                    fair recognition. Buell thought him rash. 
                        Lincoln
                     began to see that here was the kind of general that was needed.
            So in turn Ft. Henry is taken, not by the army but by the gun boats; then
                    Donelson surrenders "unconditionally"; Pope takes New Madrid;
                    and Grant's army settles down at Pittsburg Landing to prepare for
                    further advances. The Confederate attack brought on 
                        Shiloh
                    .
            It is in his handling of this great battle that Williams best reveals his hand.
                    He finds Grant guiltless of neglect, and his absence on the first day perfectly
                    excusable. He denies that the Union army was surprised and justifies its lack of
                    entrenchment. He thinks that Grant did all that any general could have done to
                    bring victory and finds that pursuit of the retreating Confederates was
                    impossible. He may be right in much of this, but there are others, using equally
                    good sources, who will not entirely agree. That is one reason why ninety years
                    after the Civil War authors may write these aggressive, controversial volumes
                    and find an abundant supply of readers.
            
                    The University of 
                            Chicago
                        
               
                
            Avery Craven
         
         
         
            
               From 
                            Greene
                         Ville to Fallen Timbers: A Journal of the 
                            Wayne
                         Campaign, July 28—September 14, 1794, Edited by
                    Dwight L. Smith. Volume XVI, Number 3, Indiana Historical Society Publications. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1952, pp. 95. Index.
                    $1.00.)
            With the publication of this journal dealing with the 
                        Wayne
                     campaign the historian is furnished with additional documentary
                    evidence concerning the intrigue of one of the most ambitious and treasonable
                    figures in American history, General James Wilkinson. Despite the fact that the
                    writer of this journal remains anonymous, his outspoken support of the wily
                    Wilkinson is significant in that it substantiates in an intimate fashion the
                    machinations of Wilkinson against his immediate military superior, General
                    Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    . The reader cannot help but be impressed with this evidence of the
                    great influence of Wilkinson's personal magnetism, which simultaneously
                    won for him a pension from the Spanish monarch and the support of many Americans
                    a few years prior to the launching of this campaign.
            The journal covers the crucial days from July 28 to September 14, 1794, during
                    which time 
                        Wayne
                     and his men advanced from Fort 
                        Greene
                     Ville to a place in the Maumee Valley known as Fallen Timbers,
                    where the Indian Confederation was dealt a body blow. Included in it are many
                    details such as supply problems, geographical features, and personalities.
                    Unfortunately, the pronounced pro-Wilkinson bias of the writer inclines the
                    reader to exercise mental reservations in accepting much of the information even
                    though it be of a purely factual nature.
            In a brief but able introduction, Smith sets the stage for this account of this
                    military expedition of General 
                        Wayne
                     against the Indians of the Old Northwest. Furthermore, by careful
                    editing he identifies various correspondents, furnishes numerous explanatory
                    footnotes, and offers adequate references to other materials that make for a
                    more complete picture of this historic event. The fragmentary nature of the
                    journal as well as the anonymity of its writer were only two of the many
                    obstacles which confronted the editor.
            Since a reviewer must be alert to possible errors it should be pointed out that
                    the editor in his introductory remarks states: "A week was spent here
                    constructing Fort  Defiance. Then the legion
                    and volunteers moved down the Auglaize towards their objective."
                    Instead of "Auglaize" he should have written
                    "Maumee," since it was down the latter stream that the forces
                    of 
                        Wayne
                     proceeded immediately prior to their engagement with the Indians at
                    Fallen Timber. Such an error, typographical or otherwise, does not detract from
                    the overall merit of this work. Smith is to be commended for his able editing of
                    a difficult journal.
            
                    Ball State Teachers College
                
            Richard H. Caldemeyer
         
         
            
               The Growth of Southern Nationalism, 1848-1861. By Avery O.
                    Craven. Volume VI. A History of the South. Edited by Wendell
                    Holmes Stephenson and E. Merton Coulter. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1953, pp. xi, 433. Illustrations,
                    bibliography, and index. $6.00.)
            The decade of the 1850's severely tested the American democratic process
                    and, in certain important respects, found it wanting. These were years of
                    increasingly bitter sectionalism, of diverging Northern and Southern values, and
                    of growing "Southern Nationalism." Professor Avery Craven
                    describes these tragic events in the sixth volume of that very useful set, A History of the South, sponsored by 
                        Louisiana
                     State University and by the Littlefield Fund at the University of 
                        Texas
                    . In view of the vast amount of historical evidence, as well as the
                    controversial character of numberless interpretations that would explain it, the
                    author has perhaps the most difficult assignment of any of the contributors to
                    the ten-volume work.
            In the early nineteenth century there were many bonds uniting the Northwest and
                    the Southwest: common frontier problems, trade routes of the 
                        Mississippi River
                     system, similar attitudes toward public lands and internal
                    improvements. But, with the advent of the Mexican War in 1846, devisive forces
                    were becoming powerful. Northern states, suspecting that the South was fighting
                    this war simply to get more territory for slavery, supported the Wilmot Proviso,
                    which would have reserved newly acquired lands exclusively for freeholders. The
                    distrust from which the Proviso sprang was nourished by Northern dissatisfaction
                    with Polk's compromise of American claims to the 
                        Oregon
                     country. At the  North, Polk
                    was represented as a tool of Southern expansionists who would not negotiate with 
                        Mexico
                     but would surrender rights to the Far Northwest and, as a part of
                    the bad bargain, adopt free trade. That David Wilmot himself voted for the
                    Walker Tariff did not shake this line of reasoning.
            The Southern Rights movement, led by extremists, such as Robert Barnwell Rhett
                    and William L. Yancey, was a defense against antislavery imputations and
                    attacks. In time, says Craven, it became a matter of defending Southern
                    institutions and values on the basis of abstract rights. When faced with
                    concrete issues, he finds, the bulk of the people were willing to rely upon the
                    democratic process. This was the situation in 1850 when the Congressional
                    compromises deflated the threatening 
                        Nashville
                     Convention. On the other hand, in 1854, the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Law, which excited little initial enthusiasm at the South, brought
                    on a symbol for which those states contended: the justice, rather than the
                    probability, of extending slavery into the territories. It was "a mere
                    shadow," we are told, since very few slaveholders intended to or
                    actually did migrate to 
                        Kansas
                    , and the politicians knew it. According to this interpretation, the
                    Southern position was incited by Northern moralizing, some of which (like
                    Sumner's "Crime against 
                        Kansas
                    " speech) was most irritating.
            As late as 1859, as Craven shows, there was a resurgence of conservative,
                    unionist sentiment in the South with Yancey pushed into the background and
                    Jefferson Davis advancing the hope that sectional differences could be settled.
                    Yet Northern personal liberty laws, Mrs. Stcwe's Uncle
                        Tom's Cabin, and John 
                        Brown
                    's raid had had their effects, all to arouse the
                    slave-holding states to real or imagined dangers. When Douglas refused at the 
                        Charleston
                     convention to accept a proposed platform requiring positive
                    protection of slavery in the territories, the Democratic party split, and, to
                    use Calhoun's expression, one of the last cords of the Union had
                    snapped. The events in the seven states that seceded upon the provocation of 
                        Lincoln
                    's election are recounted in some detail. The author
                    concludes that the majority of the Southern people were prepared for this step,
                    though they were pushed along by the fire-eaters.
            There are several substantial faults to be found with this book. The practice of
                    piling up footnotes with multiple  citations
                    for separate facts or assertions in the text is confusing and annoying. The
                    author has industriously combed the newspapers for editorial opinions to a
                    degree that seems to this reviewer to be excessive, for the result is that
                    insufficient space is given to actual political events upon which the comments
                    were made. Southern reaction to Douglas's 
                        Freeport
                     Doctrine, for example, is extensively discussed prior to and at the
                    expense of a statement of the Doctrine itself. What is said about social and
                    economic conditions seems to be satisfactory, but it constitutes only a part of
                    one chapter. The reader will not find as much here on these subjects as he might
                    in Clement Eaton's A History of the Old South.
            
            One does not get a clear view of Douglas, Seward, or 
                        Lincoln
                    . Cravens writes: "Nevins [inhis Ordeal of the
                        Union], because of his strong 
                        Lincoln
                     bias, sees Douglas as all black in 1854, but all white in 1860. He
                    fails to explain the complete transformation of the man's character in
                    six short years." But, on the same page, the author alsa says:
                    "His [Douglas's] qualities were the same in 1854 when he
                    introduced the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     bill and in 1860 when he courageously, unselfishly, and loyally
                    went through the South in a vain effort to stem the tide against the
                    Union." Perhaps there is a difference between
                    "character" and "qualities," but the author
                    does not say so. William H. Seward is represented throughout the volume, as he
                    may well have appeared to many Southerners, to be an unbending
                    "conscience" or free-soil Whig; however, in fact, his Whiggery
                    was much stronger than his conscience. 
                        Lincoln
                     appears only in a mist. Though the South may not have understood 
                        Lincoln
                    's position, it is important that the reader should. Craven
                    has only this to say about 
                        Lincoln
                    's inaugural address: "Read from different angles,
                    it said different things, and the; Border States learned little to help them
                    solve their problem."
            The principal theme has much merit to it. The struggle between an industrializing
                    group of states and a staple-planting, slave-holding group resolved itself into
                    "right versus rights." Abstractions and injustices (partly
                    real, but partly only feared) drove the country into a bloody war. Perhaps, in
                    this sense, the war's chief cause (the author carefully  avoids the expression) was psychological. If one
                    does not want to refight the Civil War by saying which side had more rights, a
                    legitimate question, nevertheless, remains: should politics and the democratic
                    process be divorced from moral principle? The Growth of
                        Southern Nationalism appears to answer affirmatively, while many
                    historians will vehemently disagree.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Maurice G. Baxter
         
         
            
               Men Against the State: The Expositors of Individualist Anarchism
                        in America, 1827-1908. By James J. Martin. With a Foreword by Harry
                    Elmer Barnes. (DeKalb, Illinois: The Adrian Allen Associates, 1953, pp. xi, 306.
                    Bibliography and index. $6.25.)
            The foreword by Harry Elmer Barnes for this account of native American anarchism
                    states that the author has "made a memorable contribution to American
                    intellectual and social history." American anarchistic thought has been
                    generally neglected and misunderstood by writers on American thought, who have,
                    noted the anarchistic trends of the ideas of Thoreau and the arrival of European
                    anarchists in the 1880's but have done little research between these
                    points. Individualist anarchism has not been given a place in accounts of
                    American radical thought.
            This monograph is divided into three parts, each ceiitered about the ideas of one
                    or more intellectual anarchists. Josiah 
                        Warren
                    , the earliest of the first group, was interested in Robert
                    Owen's 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment but rejected most of Owen's economic and
                    financial theories, endeavoring to put into practice his ideas of money and
                    labor in a succession of communitarian settlements of his own. In them he tried
                    to preserve individual initiative and personal rights and interests and to
                    prevent cooperative life and thought from becoming the victims of coercive
                    communism. 
                        Warren
                    's labor theory of value and his effort to work out some
                    logical relationship between money and the return due to labor were his main
                    preoccupations and a part of the various experiments he sponsored over a
                    twenty-year period. The 
                        Cincinnati
                     Time Store and the communitarian settlement  founded in 1851 at Modern Times, Long Island, were
                    his most notable efforts to put his ideas into practice.
            The second section of the book deals with a group of individualist anarchists the
                    author calls philosophical egoists: Ezra Heywood, William B. Greene, J. K.
                    Ingalls, Stephen Pearl Andrews, and others. The third section is devoted to the
                    life and publications of Benjamin Tucker, whose work falls in the period in
                    which European anarchism reached the 
                        United States
                     and struck terror into the hearts of American conservatives. Tucker
                    consistently opposed the trend toward violence and direct action of the
                    immigrant anarchists but was deeply interested in their theories. He made known
                    through his periodicals the work of Proudhon and o'ther Europeans. He
                    deplored and condemned the violence of the Haymarket Square affair but defended
                    the cause of the anarchists arrested and protested the travesty of their trial
                    and the tragedy of their fate.
            The American individualist anarchist was from the first an intellectual, a
                    gradualist, an advocate of non-vi'olence, an experimenter, and a
                    prophet. He preached neither nihilism nor revolution, and perhaps the very fact
                    that he was not feared caused his ideas to reach and influence only a few and
                    his work to be quickly forgotten. This book brings back into pel-spectivel a
                    whole line of American thought that has been too long disregarded.
            One of the outstanding merits of Martin's monograph is the extensive use
                    of long quotations from newspapers and periodicals published during the
                    seventy-five year period under consideration and by the leaders of
                    wh'om he writes. Such material is found in few university libraries.
                    Its detailed use here is an introduction to much new source material. There is,
                    also, much bibliographical material, not only at the end of the book, where a
                    long list of works used follows a bibliographical essay, but also at the end of
                    each chapter where annotation and references are concentrated. There is an index
                    of names and authors. Upon reading the book, one agrees with Professor Barnes in
                    feeling gratitude to the author for this presentation of the course of American
                    anarchistic ideas.
            
                    University of 
                            Minnesota
                        
               
                
            Alice Felt Tyler
         
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Israel
                         Thorndike, Federalist Financier. By J. D. Forbes. (
                        New York
                    : Exposition Press, 1953, pp. 160. Illustrations, bibliographical
                    note. $3.50.)
            This biography of a 
                        Massachusetts
                     businessman covers a career extending from the Revolution to 1832
                    and representing in personal form "the transition of New 
                        England
                     from an essentially maritime community to a manufacturing
                    area." Starting in maritime trade and then gradually turning to
                    investments ashore, 
                        Israel
                     Thorndike created in his own life and fortune a case study for the
                    historian of New Ergland's basic business development.
            Forbes’ account includes brief glimpses of Thorndike as an individual,
                    and one chapter on his career as a Federalist politician, but is largely a
                    survey of his business life. Chapters on maritime trade, land speculation, and
                    varied activities in transportation, insurance, banking, and manufacturing make
                    up die significant portion of the book. Manuscripts, particularly the Thorndike
                    papers, and public records furnish the chief sources for the study.
            As a study of early American business activity, this brief biography will be of
                    use to specialists in that field. The general theme of economic change in New 
                        England
                     is of course well-known, so the chief distinction of the book lies
                    in the personification of that theme in 
                        Israel
                     Thorndike. Forbes had an often difficult task in piecing together
                    the details of Thorndike's activities, but he has put them into s
                    topical sequence that reveals clearly the extensive interests of an early
                    American millionaire. However, since the author is contributing to a growing
                    field of investigation, it does seem a pity that he chose to omit footnotes and
                    thus deprive fellow-students of business history of the kind of detailed guide
                    to the Thorndike papers which might have proved useful to them. Similarly, the
                    omission of an index also reduces the immediate value of the work.
            Except for those who have a special concern with Thorndike, his area, or his
                    business, the book is limited in its appeal. The story it offers often has the
                    itemized and slightly musty air of an old account book; even when Thorndike is
                    presented against the broader background of major public events—at
                    constitutional conventions, as a longtime member of the state legislature, as a
                    wealthy Federalist during  the War of
                    1812—he usually is a shadowy figure whose name is entered on a public
                    account without noticeably altering the final balance.
            Apart from students of business or early 
                        Massachusetts
                     history (some of whom testify to their interest on the back of the
                    book jacket), most readers are not likely to gain much pleasure or profit from
                        
                  
                            Israel
                         Thorndike.
            
            
                    George 
                            Washington
                         University
                
            Richard C. Haskett
         
         
            
               The Protestant Crusade, 1800-1860. A Study of the Origins of
                        American Nativism. By Ray Allen Billington. (
                        New York
                    : Rinehart and Company, 1952, pp. viii, 514. Bibliography and index.
                    $6.50.)
            The reprinting of Professor Billington's early work again makes
                    available a most noteworthy study. This exposition of the growth of American
                    anti-Catholic intolerance prior to the Civil War has become the definitive work
                    in the area. As a thorough review of much of the American anti-Catholic
                    literature, the book is of importance to any serious student of American social
                    history.
            With an appreciation of the importance of placing his work in its appropriate
                    historical setting, Billington first surveys the English background whence the
                    colonists’ attitudes sprang. This brief treatment of the decline of
                    intolerance in 
                        England
                     contrasted with its growth in America is pertinent to the present
                    day discussion of American intellectual isolationism.
            The prejudices brought with the early Protestant immigrants could not die or
                    diminish as the swelling Catholic immigration increased the antipathies of the
                    earlier settlers. Misinterpretations and misrepresentations of the Catholic
                    position were frequent, and the question of Bible reading was always a sore
                    point.
            On the latter theme, the Protestant crusaders won the American middle classes to
                    their cause. Meanwhile, the aggressive Protestant papers inflamed the lower
                    classes with stories of wicked Catholic plots and evil plans. Fantastic and
                    fraudulent cases were developed in these appeals to the unthinking masses.
            With the growth of support, the crusaders entered into  the political arena. The political movement was
                    given major impetus by a surprising Catholic disregard of Protestant feelings
                    and an uncompromising persistence in all matters. Thus, the Protestant fanatics
                    received unexpected aid in their program of intolerance. The result was the
                    powerful Know-Nothing movement which reached its height in the election of 1854.
                    Inability to carry forward a legislative program and emergence of the slavery
                    question made the Know-Nothing experiment short-lived.
            In this lucid and documented presentation it is to be regretted that the author
                    did not focus more of his attention on the middle western phases of his subject.
                    Local and area church reports and area denominational papers might have
                    documented this phase of the anti-Catholic feeling. The omissions do not,
                    however, seriously detract from the general value of the work.
            
                    
                  
                            South Bend
                         Extension Center, Indiana University
                
            Jack J. Detzler
         
         
            
               Twenty-eighth Report. Society for the History of the Germans
                    in 
                        Maryland
                    . (Baltimore, Maryland: 1953, pp. 94. $1.00.)
            The Report consists of eight articles, genealogical notes on
                    Charles Frederick Wiesenthal, and seven obituaries of members. In the first
                    essay Ernest J. Becker briefly traces the history of the Society which was
                    founded in 1886 "to collect and publish in proper form the share which
                    the 
                        German
                     settlers of 
                        Maryland
                     have borne in the development of the country." During the
                    sixty-seven yeard of its existence the Society has maintained the objectives of
                    its founders. In 1908 one woman was elected to membership in this masculine
                    organization, but attempts to admit ladies in 1936 and again in 1941 failed.
                    Strangely enough, only in 1932 were women ever invited as guests to the annual
                    meeting. The Society has presented many interesting programs to its membership
                    and through its scholarly publications has made a noteworthy contribution to
                    American history.
            Achievements and limitations of 
                        German
                    -American Historical Societies, an address by the late Albert B.
                    Faust  delivered in 1946 at the sixtieth
                    anniversary of the Society, is the second article in the Report. According to Faust the first organization of 
                        German
                     settlers was established on December 26, 1764, in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . This society was successful in having a law passed in 1765 which
                    protected and aided the immigrant. Many 
                        German
                     societies were founded during the nineteenth and twentieth century
                    which influenced the American way of life. Among these were musical
                    organizations and the Turnverein.
            
            Dieter Cunz contributed the third essay on immigration and integration. It is
                    apparent that there were Germans in the colonies during the first half of the
                    seventeenth century, but not until 1683 did they begin to arrive in groups. Mass
                    migration, however, did not begin until 1710. The second wave of 
                        German
                     immigrants landed on American shores after the Napoleonic wars and
                    penetrated into the interior to settle the Middle Western States. In 1848
                    political refugees, better known as Forty-eighters, appeared in the 
                        United States
                    . Because they were "aggressive fighters, their
                    intellectual and political influence was out of proportion to their small
                    number." The largest 
                        German
                     immigration arrived during the last third of the nineteenth
                    century. Among this group there was a high percentage of craftsmen, artisans,
                    skilled workers, and small businessmen. Regardless of when the Germans came,
                    their political, cultural, and social influence made an imprint on many American
                    institutions. The assimilation of the 
                        German
                     immigrants and their descendants has advanced to such a stage that
                    the national identity of their forbears has been lost. An exception to this
                    integration may be found in certain rural counties in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .
            Another interesting essay, by Paul G. Gleis, is entitled "Eighteenth
                    Century 
                        Maryland
                     Through the Eyes of 
                        German
                     Travelers." Sketches from the accounts of Heinrich
                    Zschokke, John Lederer, Baron Friederich Adolf von Riedesel, John David Schoepf,
                    and Baron Ludwig von Closen increase one's knowledge about conditions
                    in 
                        Maryland
                     at the time of these visitors.
            Klaus G. Wust made a worth-while contribution in his aPticle on "
                        German
                     Printing in 
                        Virginia
                    , A Check List, 1789-1834." The next study, "A 
                        Baltimore
                     Pioneer in Proprietary Medicine," by Therese S.
                    Westermeier is a welcome addition  to
                    medical history. Since little is known about the industrial and labor history of
                    western 
                        Maryland
                    , a letter which deals with the activities of a large 
                        Maryland
                     corporation during the second half of the nineteenth century is
                    very informative. This letter was edited by Richard Lowitt under the title
                    "Frostburg 1882: 
                        German
                     Strikers vs. 
                        German
                     Strikebreakers," The last article in the Report is a letter by Wilhelm Rapp relating his experiences in
                    Baltinmre from 1857 to 1861. This letter was translated and edited by Alice H.
                    Finckh.
            The articles in the Twenty-eighth Report represent painstaking
                    care on the part of the contributors. Through this publication the Society for
                    the History of the Germans in 
                        Maryland
                     has made available a scholarly work for any shelf of American
                    history.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Elfrieda Lang
         
         
            
               Sheridan the Inevitable. By Richard O'Connor. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Bobbs-Merrill, 1953, pp. 400. Notes and index. $4.50.)
            Richard O'Connor has presented a picture of General Philip H. Sheridan
                    in which he neither hesitates to point out the General's shortcomings,
                    nor tends to exaggerate his subject's virtues or talents.
            Presenting the story chronologically, the author has used other material
                    liberally to round out his picture and make a background against which his
                    central figure stands out. By so doing, he has made his biography the more
                    interesting. The important events in Sheridan's military career follow
                    a brief description of his boyhood and youth in Somerset, Ohio. His eight years
                    on the frontier, his service on the staff of Halleck, his brief and brilliant
                    command of a 
                        Michigan
                     cavalry regiment, and his even more brilliant command of an
                    infantry division are related as they occurred and as a sort of preface to the
                    final flowering of Sheridan's military genius. His destruction of Jeb
                    Stuart and of the effectiveness of the Eastern rebel cavalry, his work prior to
                    Cold Harbor, and his abortive raid toward 
                        Charlottesville
                     are next related; the stage is set for the Shenandoah Valley
                    campaign. From the valley, it is an easy step to Sheridan's  classic, almost solo, destruction of the gallant
                    Confederate Army of northern 
                        Virginia
                    . In rapid succession came his direction of Reconstruction in 
                        Louisiana
                     and 
                        Texas
                     while bluffing the French out of 
                        Mexico
                    ; his command in the Indian campaigns; his work after the 
                        Chicago
                     fire; and his command of the 
                        United States
                     Army.
            If the author is liberal with his background material, he is not necessarily
                    critical of it. He has accepted that school of thought toward the war and its
                    aftermath which persistently ignores that the first troops were raised and the
                    first shots fired in the South—which ignores the fact that 
                        Lincoln
                    's policy was sabotaged as much by Southern intransigence
                    as Northern excess. O'Connor falls into this error because he uses too
                    many secondary materials for his background and not enough primary sources; this
                    distorts the picture the author presents and does an injustice to Sheridan. No
                    politician, Sheridan determindedly carried out his duty to his country as he saw
                    it. Accepting his sources without question, O'Connor makes no allowance
                    and is quick to condemn. He nowhere makes mention of Sheridan's
                    oft-repeated devotion to the principles of republicanism as opposed to
                    authoritarianism or monarchism.
            The reader will profit if he approaches the book with the intent to gain
                    information about the General without accepting the author's judgment
                    of it.
            
                    
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana
                
            Joseph F. O'Mahoney Jr.
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Little Flock Baptist Church (1821), 
                        Sullivan County
                    
            
            
                    Chloe Siner Morgan*
               
                
            With the exception of the Shakers "at West Union on Busseron
                    Creek," the little church on Currys 
                        Prairie
                    , so aptly named Little Flock by its eleven constituent members of
                    June, 1821, was the first church in 
                        Sullivan County
                    . And with the exception of First 
                        Prairie
                     Creek (1818) in the southwest corner of 
                        Vigo County
                    , there was probably no other Indiana Baptist church in the 
                        Wabash
                     area north of Maria Creek (1809), fifteen miles northeast of 
                        Vincennes
                    . This church was but slightly more than a score of years behind the
                    first Baptist church which came to southern Indiana in 
                        Clark County
                    . While the French had brought Roman Catholicism to the 
                        Vincennes
                     district within the first half of the eighteenth century,1 the Baptists, the forerunners of Protestantism in southern
                    Indiana, did not build a church earlier than 1798. (See the Minute Book of this
                    first church, styled progressively: The Fourteen Mile Church (1798), Owens Creek
                    Baptist Church (1806-1837). The first entry is dated "February,
                    1799." In the back of the second book, which is in the Indiana State
                    Library, an entry reads: "Minutes of Silver Creek Association, held at
                    Sliver Creek, before the 4th Lords Day in July, 1812." On p. 114, a new
                    membership list is entitled: "Names of Members of Silver 
                  
                     * Mrs. William Thomas Morgan is a
                            faculty research fellow at Indiana University.
                  
                     1 For the difference of opinion concerning the
                            date of the founding of 
                                Vincennes
                             and the first Catholic church there, see Gilbert J.
                            Garra-han, S.J., 
                        
                                    Vincennes
                                : A Chapter in the Ecclesiastical History of the
                            West (n.p., 1931); John D. Barnhart (ed.), The French
                                Period in Indiana, A Pamphlet of Readings (
                                Bloomington
                            , n.d.); Herman Alerding, A History of the
                                Catholic Church in the Diocese of 
                                    Vincennes
                                
                     , (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883); Pierre-Georges Roy, "Sieur de 
                                Vincennes
                             Identified," Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1895-), VII (1923); Paul C. Phillips, "
                                Vincennes
                             in Its Relation to French Colonial Policy," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), XVII (1921), 311. According to these authorities,
                            Francois Marie Bissat de 
                                Vincennes
                            , the founder of the city of 
                                Vincennes
                             and constructor of the fort around which the village grew,
                            took up his work on the site about 1731-1733. The date of the founding
                            of the church is based on the first church marriage record, dated April
                            21, 1749, and the record of the first baptism, June 25, 1749.
               
                     Creek, August 27, 1825." See also,
                    William 
                        Warren
                     Sweet, Editor, Religion on the American Frontier: The
                        Baptists 1783-1830 (
                        New York
                    , 1931), 30; A. H. Newman, A History of the Baptist
                        Churches in the 
                            United States
                        
                (
                        New York
                    , 1915), 340; David Benedict, A General History of the
                        Baptist Denomination in America (
                        New York
                    , 1853), 870-871; and John F. Cady, The Origin and
                        Development of the Missionary Baptist Church in Indiana (Berne,
                    Indiana, 1942), 17-18, 105, 162, 168, 203, 227, 230, 240, 263.)
            When Little Flock was constituted, the district in which it lay comprised the 
                        Wabash
                     District Association, which had been organized in 1809 and remained
                    during its first ten years in correspondence with the Baptist Board of Foreign
                    Missions. Toward the end of the ten-year period a schism occurred in the
                    association because of the teaching of Daniel Parker, who held some
                    "Anti-ism" views which were opposed to the tenets of the
                    Missionary Baptists. The 
                        Wabash
                     District Association had included churches lying on both sides of
                    the 
                        Wabash River
                     in the old undivided pre-1816 
                        Knox County
                    , the Indiana churches being Bethel, Maria Creek, Patoka, 
                        Salem
                    , and 
                        Wabash
                    . The differences between the two Baptist factions necessitated the
                    organization, in 1824, of the Union Association, in order to preserve Missionary
                    principles. This new association, which included the counties of
                            
                  Daviess, Knox, Pike
               ,
                    and Sullivan, was carved out of "that part of the 
                        Wabash
                     District Association that lies on the Indiana side of the 
                        Wabash River
                    . It began with eight churches, six ordained ministers and 360
                    members…. The oldest church in Union Association was 
                        Wabash
                     Baptist Church, organized some time prior to 1809. Maria Creek was
                    the next, formed in 1809." [See William Taylor Stott, Indiana Baptist History, 1798-1908 (n.p., 1908), 61-63, 129-131.] By
                    1812, according to Newman (341), "there were in the whole of Indiana
                    [but] 29 churches and 1726 members."
            Although Little Flock in 
                        Sullivan County
                     had been constituted almost three years before the organization of
                    Union Association, the church may not have become sufficiently established in
                    time to enter the 
                        Wabash
                     District Association before the split occurred. The first minutes
                    of the little church on Currys 
                        Prairie
                    , approximately two miles south of old Currysville, were not
                    recorded until 1824, at the time the members called as their first minister
                    "our beloved  brother Willis
                    Pierson," who, with his brother Moses, had come from 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1820 and founded Pierson Township in the southeast corner of 
                        Vigo County
                    , which had been divided from Sullivan in 1818.
            Little Flock joined Union Association; and when in 1834 another association split
                    off from Union, choosing the name Currys 
                        Prairie
                    , Little Flock became a member of that body. This new association,
                    according to Stott (129), embraced "the churches lying east of the 
                        Wabash river
                    , and north between 
                        Vincennes
                     and Teme Haute, including the latter." The First Baptist
                    Church of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , however, was not constituted until July 9, 1836.
            Up to the summer of 1826 the small membership of Little Flock could meet
                    comfortably in the log schoolhouse or in the homes, for their communicants were
                    still far from numerous. They had started with eleven members, and by July 8,
                    1826, had received a total of forty-five, ten of whom were lost by letter. With
                    approximately thirty-five members and their unbaptized families, they decided
                    that it was time to build a meeting hlouse. On July 8, 1826, they bought from
                    Tyre Harris, one of the constituent members, a plot of ground as a building
                    spot, obtaining it for the "consideration of
                    $5.00." The deed was made to Richard Dodd, William T. Lloyd,
                    and William B. Eldridge, "Trustees of the Baptist Church in the
                    Township of 
                        Hamilton
                    , called Little Flock Church." (Though the site was in 
                        Hamilton
                     Township, it could not have been more than a stone's throw
                    of Curry; and some old map may show that Curry was divided from 
                        Hamilton
                     at some later date. The church was on Currys 
                        Prairie
                    .) This deed was not recorded until August 15, 1904, for no suitable
                    explanation, except that the man from whom the land had been secured had never
                    recorded the deed to the original purchase.
            The plot of ground which provided for a future Little Flock Meeting House and
                    churchyard was a small portion of the 79.98-acre farm which Tyre Harris and his
                    wife Susanah had purchased August 28, 1821, for "full
                    payment," and which was not recorded until October 7, 1903. This is
                    described as: "The east half of the northeast quarter of Section 4,
                    Township 8 North, Range 9 west." Perhaps the trip to Merom, where the
                    deeds were then made, was too difficult to take for the recordings and later the
                    matter was  forgotten. (U.S.A. Deed Record
                    86, p. 562, by James 
                        Monroe
                    , President.)
            Such were the preliminaries to the founding of this church, which, according to
                    Stott (178), "For many years… led in the number of members,
                    but at length it was equalled and then surpassed by the First 
                        Terre Haute
                     church, which in 1905 reported 855 members."
            Little Flock, despite its comparatively prosperous early growth, remained true to
                    its name. Throughout the years 1821 to 1862—the years included in the
                    earliest minute book here under consideration—but 410 names are
                    recorded. Eventually, in less than a score of years after this church had
                    celebrated its centennial, its dwindling congregation razed Weir old meeting
                    house—the third built on the spot—and transferred their
                    membership to Shelburne Baptist Church within the town, founded in 1855 by
                    Paschal Shelburne, a native of 
                        Virginia
                    . (See "Shelburne Baptist Church: the Constituent
                    Membership Record, May 7, 1870," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, June, 1953.)
            Only the old cemetery remains as a mute reminder of the early history of this
                    little community of hopeful, earnest, Godfearing pioneers. Many of the family
                    names recorded in the churchyard and on the minute book of the church have faded
                    from Currys 
                        Prairie
                     but their descendants are legion. Grandchildren,
                    great-grandchildren, and great-great-grandchildren, ad
                    infinitim, in the true pioneer spirit of their forefathers, have passed out
                    into the wide open spaces and played distinguished roles throughout the 
                        United States
                    ; while others have remained, with a tenacious loyalty to the early
                    home of their ancestors, playing equally important parts in their native county
                    of Sullivan and in the adjoining and outlying counties. Despite the short period
                    of inundation of European labor, brought in by operators during the heyday of
                    the coal industry, descendants of the founders of the community have maintained
                    the predominately British flavor and attitude of life of their inheritance. This
                    truism may be kept in mind in considering the whole of Sullivan and Vigo: it is
                    well for a stranger in those counties to refrain from criticism of his neighbor,
                    for he may be speaking to a distant relative of the man he is condemning. There
                    is a current saying in those parts that all the descendants of all the old
                    families are related, whether or not they know it.  The purpose of articles such as this is to aid the
                    younger generation in tracing their connections with the early communicants of
                    Little Flock Church and with other pioneer church communities in Sullivan and
                    Vigo.
            Following is a list of the ministers of the Little Flock Church during the period
                    of 1824-1919: 
                  1824. Willis Pierson. The minutes merely recorded that "The
                            church agrees to invite our beloved brother Willis Pierson to preach to
                            us for a few months, which invitation is accepted." Pierson
                            died in 
                                Kentucky
                             in 1826. His brother Moses, also a Baptist minister, and
                            Elder Joseph Liston—a son of Edmond and Elizabeth (Kester)
                            Liston—were ancestors of the founders of the Pierson lumber
                            companies of middle Indiana. (See John E. Hunt, The Pound
                                and Kester Families (
                                Chicago
                            , 1904), 395.
                  1826. William B. Eldridge. According to the Little Flock minutes of
                            October 8, 1826, "Motion made and seconded to know whether
                            calling on a member to exercise a gift is setting forward a preacher.
                            The Church says it is not. On motion made and seconded Brother William
                            B. Eldridge is liberated to exercise a preaching gift and that he try to
                            preach on next Church meeting day at 11 o'clock." The
                            minutes of November 11, 1826, carried the information that,
                            "After hearing Brother Eldridge the Church says he is liberated
                            to exercise a public gift in the bounds of the church." He left
                            the following year to preach elsewhere, one of his charges being Second 
                                Prairie
                             Creek Church, which was not constituted until 1828, in 
                                Vigo County
                            . In February, 1834, Elder Eldridge and his wife, Sarah
                            (Anderson) Eldridge, were received as members of Second 
                                Prairie
                             Creek Church. There the Eldridges lived during the
                            remainder of their lives. In the minute book of that church,
                            Eldridge's name first appears as moderator in June, 1834, again
                            in April, 1835, and thereafter intermittently through the following two
                            years. From 1837 to December, 1866, he served there in the dual capacity
                            of moderator and pastor almost constantly. In August, 1866, he placed a
                            "request to be released of the pastoral care of the church and
                            also as moderator;" yet, in the September minutes,
                            "the church say retain Brother Eldridge." In December,
                            however, the church elected Philip 
                                Randolph
                             to succeed to the moderatolrship, and thereafter
                            Eldridge's name disappears from the monthly reports. 
                     
                                Since early 1860 Second 
                                        Prairie
                                     Creek had agreed to call an assistant pastor, and
                                    in June, 1860, "Brother S. K. Sparks was
                                    chosen" in that capacity.
                                William G. Eldridge (b. 
                                        Sullivan County
                                    , October 24, 1830), son of William B. Eldridge and
                                    a teacher and preacher, married Ruth Welch, a descendant of Paul
                                    Kester. William G. Eldridge was received into Second 
                                        Prairie
                                     Creek Church by letter, March, 1859. In June of
                                    that year he asked "liberty of the church to exercise
                                    in public and by motion and second the Church gives him leave to
                                    exercise in the bounds of the Association." In June,
                                    1860, he and his wife Ruth were dismissed by letter by request
                                    of his father, William B. Eldridge, the pastor.
                                Another son of William B. Eldridge, Robert (b. November 27, 1839)
                                    married a granddaughter of Thomas and Sarah (Kester) Pound. (See
                                    Hunt, 167, 363.)
                            
                  
                   1827-1831. William B. Stancil. Stancil was one of the leading
                            builders of Union Association, according to Stott (131), although he was
                            not ordained until 1824, the year in which Union was formed. He had
                            become a member of 
                                Shiloh
                             Baptist Church, 
                                Perry County
                            , in 1821, at the age of 21, and was licensed to preach a
                            year before his ordination. A native of 
                                North Carolina
                            , he was brought to Indiana as a boy of eight; ten years
                            later he had married Celia Parker. His life was spent in the manner of
                            the old circuit-riding missionary pastors, fighting the elements as he
                            made his way from one part of the 
                                Wabash Valley
                             to another. He died there "iu his 85th
                            year" and was buried in Sullivan, where he had assisted in the
                            founding of the First Baptist Church (April 23, 1853) which had sixteen
                            constituent members. He then, according to T. J. Wolfe, History of 
                                    Sullivan County
                                
                      ((2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1909), I, 291, "took up his residence at
                            Sullivan" for the next ten years, and then again,
                            "after a brief interval for four more years." Wolfe
                            says that Stancil lived in 
                                Knox County
                             in the early fifties, and as he "passed up and
                            down the Valley to perform his labors," he passed periodically
                            through Sullivan. During these stops, he held services in the Methodist
                            house of worship, where he preached to the small group of Baptists. He
                            "shared some honors with the veteran missionary Isaac McCoy,
                            whose name is closely identified with the early history of the Baptist
                            Church in Indiana," especially in connection with Indian
                            mission work.  [See Elizabeth
                            Hayward, John McCoy, Life and Diaries (
                                New York
                            , 1948), for the fascinating story of a family of pioneer
                            Baptist ministers, that of William McCoy and his sons James, John, Rice
                            (or Royce) and Isaac.] Among the churches served by Stancil, besides
                            Sullivan and 
                                Shiloh
                            , were 
                                Wabash
                            , Maria Creek, 
                                Washington
                            , Aikman's Creek, Wilson Creek, Edwardsport, and
                            Second 
                                Prairie
                             Creek, where he was the organizing moderator, August 1,
                            1828. (See Benedict, 870; Stott, 132.)
                  1831. Abraham Stark. Stark was invited to preach "as often as
                            practicable." According to Stott (181), he "was born
                            in 
                                Pennsylvania
                             in 1781, was baptised into membership in the Eighteen-Mile
                            church in 
                                Kentucky
                             in 1800; coming to Indiana he was pastor of Union church
                            fourteen years, Second 
                                Prairie
                             Creek seven years, Little Flock six years, and for limited
                            terms was pastor of Friendly Grove and Mount Pleasant
                            churches." His name as moderator appears frequently in the
                            early twenties and thirties in the Second 
                                Prairie
                             Creek Records. As moderator he assisted in the constitution
                            of Lost River Association in 1825, and served in the same capacity in
                            Union Association, being elected moderator "at nine successive
                            sessions." He died in 1857. He "began his Indiana
                            ministry in the Silver Creek Association in 1815," and he
                            "later distinguished himself in the Curry's 
                                Prairie
                             Association near 
                                Terre Haute
                            ." He was moderator at the founding of the
                            Association in 1834, at Union Church in 
                                Vigo County
                            . (See Stott, 177-178.) He was a prominent promoter of
                            "Sunday Schools, weekly instead of monthly meetings,
                            compensation for pastors, and such projects as 
                                Franklin
                             College and a Baptist state paper." It was not
                            until the fifties that Currys 
                                Prairie
                             officially adopted the Sunday School program. (See Cady,
                            17, 162, 168.) Stark helped in the constitution and served Second 
                                Prairie
                             Creek (constituted, 1828) several years before requesting
                            that the church provide for her minister. In May, 1836, Stark and his
                            wife requested a letter of dismissal from Second 
                                Prairie
                             Creek. In October he was replaced by S. K. Sparks. The
                            request was readily met and members were assessed according to their
                            ability to pay. The wife of Abraham Stark was Sarah Stark, his first
                            cousin. (See Hunt, Appendix S, 484, 517, 590). Abraham may have been a
                            brother or possibly an uncle of Margaret Stark (b. 1805 in 
                                Kentucky
                            ), whose  parents were
                            Aaron and Anna (Guntryman) Stark. Margaret was the wife of Ephraim Pound
                            Kester, a grandson of William and Elizabeth (Lacock Ferguson) Kester and
                            also of John and Sarah (Martin) Pound. (See biographical sketch of
                            Elizabeth (Pound) Siner in "Shelburne Baptist Church,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, June, 1953.)
                  1839-1840. William B. Stancil. (Second period.)
                   1840-1855. Asa Frakes. Frakes’ long service would indicate
                            that he was well-liked. He served again from 1865-1867. He was one of
                            the Currys 
                                Prairie
                             ordained ministers, serving the sixteen churches of the
                            association. The other ordained ministers of the association were:
                            Elders D. M. Stark, F. R. McKinney, W. B. Eldridge, E. G. Taylor,
                            G[eorge] Crist, and S[amuel] K. Sparks. Frakes’ wife was
                            Rebecca Ann Dickerson. Their son William married Mary Liston, a
                            granddaughter of Edmund and Elizabeth (Kester) Liston, daughter of
                            William and Elizabeth (Lacock Ferguson) Kester. Mary was the first
                            cousin of Joseph Liston, prominent Vigo county pioneer from 1811 and
                            Baptist minister for approximately sixty years. One of Joseph
                            Liston's granddaughters married a grandson of Moses Pierson,
                            another Union Church minister. The aforementioned George Crist was a
                            Pound and Kester descendant. S. K. Sparks married into these families.
                            (See Hunt, 395-422, 402, 476; Stott, 178, 180; Vigo county histories,
                                passim.)
                  
                  1855. William B. Eldridge. (Second period.)
                  1856-1858. D. M. Stark and Thomas McKinney. Stark was "born
                            in eastern Indiana in 1809, and was baptized by his father into the
                            membership of the Union church in 1830. This church called for his
                            ordination in 1844 and he served many of the churches during his
                            twenty-three years of the ministry." (See Stott, 182.) He may
                            have been a relative of Abraham Stark, possibly his son. Abraham had a
                            son Abram, who was a minister. Stark families who for many years resided
                            in Vigo and Sullivan counties were probably descendants of these early
                            ministers. Of Thomas McKinney we find no mention. Possibly he was
                            related to the F. R. McKinney mentioned by Stott as a preacher in 1860.
                            (See McKinneys in Little Flock membership record.)
                   1858-1861. D. M. Stark. (See above.)
                   1861-1863. William Winans. Winans is mentioned as one of sixteen
                            ordained ministers serving the twenty-one  Currys 
                                Prairie
                             churches in 1880. The others in this list are W. T. Cuppy
                            (brother of Letticia, wife of Paschal Hill), G. P. Fuson, J. B. Arnett,
                            J. M. Turner, G. W. Marlow, G. W. Trent, C. R. Henderson, D. H. Nevins,
                            J. M. Plew, S. M. Stimson, J. W. Stark, W. B. Eldridge, W. P. Sanford,
                            C. B. Allen, and E. Cooprider. (See Stott, 178.) Some of these served
                            Little Flock during these years; some others who served are not
                            mentioned by Stott.
                  1863-1865. Jacob Smock. Smock was a pioneer minister of Currys 
                                Prairie
                             Association, born in 
                                Kentucky
                             in 1824 and brought by his parents to Parke county,
                            Indiana, the following year. He was the grandson of William Smock, a
                            Revolutionary War soldier. He was twice married—first to
                            Caroline Milligan, who died in 1879, and second to Dinah Wilson. He was
                            the father of six children by his first wife and of one daughter, Wilma,
                            by his second. (See Stott, 182.)
                  1865-1867. Asa Frakes. (Second period.)
                  1867-1869. A. J. Riley. Riley helped in the constitution of Shelburne
                            Baptist Church, in 1870, and served as their first minister. His
                            wife's name was Annie.
                  1869-1870. Jacob Smock. (Second period.)
               
            
            This brings the list of ministers up to the time, of the division of Shelburne
                    Baptist Church from Little Flock, and eight years beyond the end of the earliest
                    membership record (1821-1862). Since the pastors who succeeded to the centennial
                    year of the church preached within the memory of persons still living, it is
                    hoped that some of these and the survivors in their families may come forth with
                    biographical data. A list of these later pastors, predominated by the large
                    family of Fusons, is as follows: 
                  1870-1877. S. K. Fuson.
                  1877-1882. G. P. Fuson (brother of S. K. Fuson).
                  1882-1888. Jacob Smock.
                  1888-1889. J. L. Weeks.
                  1889-1891. D. P. Liston.
                  1892-1885. Henry Fuson.
                  1885-1858. William T. Cuppy (brother of Letticia [Cuppy] Hill, wife of
                            Paschal Hill).
                  1889-1899. William Fuson.
                  1899- W. A. Fuson.
                  1900-1902. George Fuson.
                  1902-1904. James Sanders.
                  
                  1904-1907. George Fuson.
                  1907- P. N. Fuson.
                  1908-1909. Nathan Clark.
                  1910- J. R. Hinman.
                  1911- W. H. Coonce.
                  1912- George Fuson.
                  1915- Blanchard Davis.
                  1916- H. R. Baker.
                  1917- D. Hanna.
                  1919- James W. Stark.
               
            
            The following is a list of the members of the Little Flock Baptist
                    Church—the first eleven names of which are the constituent
                    members,—and the dates of their admission to membership in the
                    church: 
                  Tyre Harris—June, 1821
                  Susannah Harris—June, 1821
                  John Hodged une, 1821
                  Polly Morgan—June, 1821
                  Mary Hill—June, 1821
                  Elizabeth Anderson—June, 1821
                  Robert Anderson, Sr.—June, 1821
                  Sarah [Froment] Anderson—June, 1821
                  Betsy Anderson—June, 1821
                  Sarah Eldridgd—June, 1821
                  Patience Cummins—June, 1821
                  John Grant—August 11, 1821
                  Hannah Grant—August 11, 1821
                  George Rusher—November 16, 1822
                  John Graham—November 16, 1822
                  Eliza Anderson—December 7, 1822
                  Robert Anderson, Jr.—December 7, 1822
                  Abraham Anderson—April 10, 1823
                  Benjamin Siner, Sr.—August 7 [?], 1823
                  Polly [Maladie] Siner—August 7, [?], 1823
                  Elizabeth Thompson—February 8, 1824
                  Patience Cummins—"in the constituted."
                  James Lloyd—March 13, 1824
                  Margaret Lloyd—March 13, 1824
                  James Siner—March 13, 1824
                  Lemuel Magby—Oct. 13, 1822
                  Isaac Thompson—June 12, 1824
                  Lemuel Parker—August 17, 1824
                  Sarah Parker—August 17, 1824
                  Margaret Daniel—August 17, 1824
                  Melinda Hill—March 12, 1825
                  William T. Lloyd—April 9, 1825
                  Louisa An Lloyd—April 9, 1825
                  Sinthia Ann Anderson—April 9, 1825
                  Elijah York—April 9, 1825
                  [William?] A. Dodd—April 9, 1825
                  Richard Dodd—June 11, 1825
                  Priscilla Mise—November 12, 1825
                  James D. Gardner—January 8, 1826
                  Desdemonia [Shelburne] Siner—October [—], 1822
                  John Anderson—February 11, 1826
                  Sarah Carrithers—May 13, 1826
                  Huldah Gardner—May 13, 1826
                  Sally Osburn——May 13, 1826
                  Sally Nantz—May 13, 1826
                  Susanna Glover—July 8, 1826
                  Grove Pomeroy—October 8, 1826
                  Levi Chambers—October 8, 1826
                  Champion Shelbourn[e]—October [—], 1822
                  John Lloyd—November 11, 1826
                  Eleanor Lloyd—November 11, 1826
                  Nancy Lloyd—November 11, 1826
                  Ann Lloyd—November 11, 1826
                  Alexander M. McDaniel—Februaly 10, 1827
                  
                  Sally M. McDaniel—February, 10, 1827
                  Nancy Carrithers—March 10, 1827
                  Mary Carrithers—March 10, 1827
                  Dolly Mahan—March 10, 1827
                  Henry Rusher—March 10, 1827
                  Katharine Rusher—March 10, 1827
                  William Rusher—May 12, 1827
                  Elizabeth Rusher—May 12, 1827
                  Asenith Rusher—May 12, 1827
                  Clarissa Pomeroy—July 7, 1827
                  Ann Harris—November 10, 1827
                  Elizabeth Osburn—December 8, 1827
                  Eleanor Lloyd, Jr.—December 8, 1827
                  Mahala Lloyd—January 12, 1828
                  Moses Lloyd—January 12, 1828
                  John Osburn—January 12, 1828
                  [—] Bridges—January 12, 1828
                  Sally Bridged—January 12, 1828
                  Polly Laswell—February 9, 1828
                  Edward Dodd—February 9, 1828
                  Cinthia Dodd—April 12, 1828
                  Elizabeth Lacefield—April 12,1828
                  James Rusher—May 10, 1828
                  Nancy Rusher—May 10, 1828
                  Aldert [sic] Plough—May 10, 1828
                  Fanny Plough—May 10, 1828
                  Jared Rundel—June 8, 1828
                  Fanny Lloyd—July 12, 1828
                  Andrew Rusher—August 9, 1828
                  Charnel Laswell—February 9, 1828
                  Lydia Laswell—February 9, 1828
                  Williamson Lloyd—December 33, 1828
                  Joseph Kelly—May 9, 1829
                  Mary Kelly—May 9, 1829
                  Eli Mills—June 13, 1829
                  Anna Mills—June 13, 1829
                  Sally Plough—July 11, 1829
                  Anna Harris—July 11, 1829
                  Betsy Cummins—March, 1822
                  Samuel Cummins—March, 1822
                  Olla Bridges—October 10, 1829
                  William B. Eldridge—October 13, 1821
                  Rebecca Daniel—October 13, 1821
                  William C. Griffith—March 9, 1830
                  Elin Pitman—October 10, 1830
                  Mariam Pitman—October 10, 1830
                  Samuel Osburn—September 11, 1830
                  James Rusher and wife—September 11, 1830
                  Joseph Kelly and wife—September 11, 1830
                  Mariam Pitman—November 13, 1830
                  Elin Pitman—November 13, 1830
                  [—]h 
                                Hopewell
                            —January 8, 1830
                  Samuel Oakes—September 7, 1834
                  Hardy Hill—October 12, 1834
                  Nelson Signer [Siner]—October 12, 1834
                  James Bell—October 12, 1834
                  Alen Pittman—October 12, 1834
                  Henry 
                                Hopewell
                            —October 12, 1834
                  Mary 
                                Hopewell
                            —October 12, 1834
                  Prudence Reed—June 21, 1834
                  Dicey Bell—June 21, 1834
                  Nancy Bell—July 25, 1834
                  John Pugh—November 22, 1834
                  Levina Powers—November 22, 1834
                  Mehelah Cuppy—March 21, 1835
                  James Martin—December 23, 1837
                  Shadrach Payne—May 28, 1837
                  Mary Payne—May 28, 1837
                  James Lloyd, Jr.—November 25, 1837
                  James Plew—November 25, 1837
                  Rebecca Pittman—November 25, 1837
                  Mary All—June 23, 1839
                  Sary All—June 23, 1839
                  Elizabeth All—[June ?] 22, 1839
                  William Woodsmall—June 25, 1836
                  Polly Woodsmall—June 25, 1836
                  Mahalah Pugh—November 22, 1834
                  Thomas R. Mckinney—May 23 1835
                  Elizabeth Dicks— [?]
                  Martha Jane Hill—April 12, 1834
                  Salley Fox—April 12, 1884
                  Daniel Clark—May 10, 1834
                  Melissa Lloyd—March 3, 1834
                  Champion 
                                Shelburn
                            [e]—September 14, 1839
                  Samuel Cummins
                  
                  Abraham Stark—June 11, 1831
                  Sally Stark—June 11, 1831
                  Elisha Stark—June 11, 1831
                  Samuel Osburn—October 10, 1830
                  Mary Jewel—March 12, 1831
                  William Stark—September 10, 1831
                  Kisiah Stark—September 10, 1831
                  Polly Cotton—September 10, 1831
                  Tamar Cotton—September 10, 1831
                  Sanford Pitman—September 10, 1831
                  Elizabeth Pitman—September 10, 1831
                  Carline Mills—September 10, 1831
                  George Hammack—March 9, 1832
                  Robert Daniel—July 7, 1832
                  Margaret Daniel—July 7, 1832
                  Elizabeth Brookbank—October 13, 1832
                  Rheuben Stout—November 10, 1832
                  Sarah Stout—November 10, 1832
                  Katharine Okes—November 11, 1832
                  William Martin—January 12, 1833
                  Sarah Martin—January 12, 1833
                  William Bell—March 9, 1833
                  Elizabeth Bell—March 9, 1833
                  William Stark—March 9, 1833
                  Kesiah Stark—March 9, 1833
                  [—] Rusher—April 13, 1833
                  [— —]—April 13, 1833
                  Lydia Jewel—May 11, 1833
                  Henry Smith [or Smock]—July 13, 1833
                  Mary Osburn—July 13, 1833
                  Sally Parkes—September 7, 1833
                  James Plew—August 10, 1833
                  
                     
                                Richmond
                             Shelburne—September 14, 1839
                  Meriah Gardner—November 19, 1839
                  Melvina [Shelburne] Bennett— August 15, 1840
                  Mary Watson—May 30, 1841
                  Mahalah Anderson—June 20, 1841
                  Nancy Pittman—October 16, 1841
                  Benjamin Dosson—January 15, 1842
                  Lydia Dosson—January 15, 1842
                  Joseph Baily—April 17, 1842
                  Margaret McGrew—April 17, 1842
                  Jane McKinney—April 17, 1842
                  Elizabeth P. Lloyd—April 17, 1842
                  Jacob Marts—April 17, 1842
                  Eebecca Tincher—April 17, 1842
                  Jacob Marts, Jr.—April 17, 1842
                  Martha Marts—April 17, 1842
                  Sary Borders—April 17, 1842
                  Jacob Borders—April 17, 1842
                  John Osburn—April 17, 1842
                  Plender Osburn—April 17, 1842
                  Jane Griffith—April 17, 1842
                  Susan Gardner—May 15, 1842
                  Letticia D. Plew—May 15, 1842
                  Alletha M. Plew—May 15, 1842
                  Mary Peyton—–May 15, 1842
                  Sally Gardner—June 19, 1842
                  Elizabeth Simpson—June 19, 1842
                  Jessie [?] Lloyd, Jr.—June 19, 1842
                  Melisa Lloyd—June 19, 1842
                  Jas. Lloyd, Sr.—June 19, 1842
                  Margaret Lloyd—June 19, 1842
                  Elizabeth Jewel—August 18, 1842
                  Letty Osburn—August 18, 1842
                  John Cuppy—September 17, 1842
                  Eliza Briscoe—September 17, 1842
                  Stephen Jewel—September 17, 1842
                  Robert Ewing—December 18, 1842
                  Lucy Ann Ewing—December 18, 1842
                  Green T. Gardner—May 20, 1843
                  Jane Eliot—April 15, 1843
                  Sarah Lee—February 17, 1844
                  Paskel [Paschal] 
                                Shelburn
                            [e]— September 14, 1844
                  Thomas Marts—September 15, 1844
                  Chamberlin Marts—September 15, 1844
                  Mary Marts—September 15, 1844
                  Sally Cogshill—September 15, 1844
                  John Boles—October 13, 1844
                  Emily Marts—October 19, 1844
                  Permela Anderson
                  Meranda Hill
                  Jane Marts
                  
                  Elizabeth Combs—March 29, 1845
                  Sary Kerkham—March 29, 1845
                  John Belyou
                  Nancy Laswell—August 20, 1848
                  Elizabeth Thompson
                  James Sanford—January 3, 1849
                  Martha Warner—January 6, 1849
                  William Higdon—January 6, 1849
                  John Mcdonall—January 6, 1849
                  Patten Kirkham—January 7, 1849
                  Hannah Warner—January 21, 1849
                  Levi Warner—January 21, 1849
                  Frances Griffith—April 14, 1849
                  Nancy Higdon—May 19, 1849
                  Hannah Marts—May 20, 1849
                  Mary J. Phillips—[—?]
                  Serilda [Anderson ?]—[—?]
                            16, 1849
                  [Asa ?] Frakes—[—?] 17,
                            1849
                  Desdemonia Siner—April 19, 1851
                  John Cox—April 19, 1851
                  Fanny M. Gardner—July 19, 1851
                  Alexander Medonall [McDonall ?]
                  Thomas Black—August 17, 1851
                  Melinda Medonall July 19, 1851
                  Joseph Liston—September 20, 1851
                  Margaret Liston—September 20, 1851
                  Benj. Barney—October 20, 1851
                  James McClannahan—January 14, 1854
                  Julia F. Jewell—January 15, 1854
                  William L. Davis—January 17, 1854
                  Charles Bunch—January 20, 1854
                  James Bunch, Sr.—January 20, 1854
                  Louisa Lloyd—January 22, 1854
                  Susana Davis—January 22, 1854
                  
                     
                                Spencer
                             [Shelburne] Siner—January 23, 1854
                  James Bunch, Jr.—January 23, 1854
                  Sarah Bunch—January 23, 1854
                  Mahala Lloyd—January 23, 1854
                  Elizabeth Jewell—January 23, 1854
                  Elizabeth [Pound] Siner—January 24, 1854
                  Levina Payne—January 24, 1854
                  Sally Bunch
                  Matilda Lloyd
                  Lydia Jewell
                  Mary Jane McClanahan—January 25, 1854
                  Sally Bunch, Sen.
                  Ellen Lloyd—January 26
                  Zerilda McClannahan
                  Sabry Jewlin—February 18, 1854
                  Alfred Marlow
                  Sarah Taylor—September 16, 1854
                  Mahala 
                                Shelburn
                            [e]
                  Elijah 
                                Shelburn
                            [e]—July 1, 1856
                  
                     
                                Arkansas
                            
                            
                                Shelburn
                            [e]—July 1, 1856
                  Lucy A. Shelburn[e]—July 1, 1856
                  Amy Owens—March 3, 1857
                  Elizabeth J. McGrew—March 6, 1857
                  Sarah Rowland—March 7, 1857
                  Elizabeth E. Gardner—August 8, 1857
                  Nathaniel [?] Haden—August 8, 1857
                  [—]ah Haden—August 8, 1857
                  [—] [—]rts—April 5, 1857
                  [—] Cuppy—June 6, 1857
                  [—] Mckinney—June 6, 1857
                  [—] Cuppy—March 9, 1858
                  [—] [—]etunt [?]—March 12,
                            1858
                  [—] [—]ble—March 13, 1858
                  [—] [—]yd—March 13, 1858
                  Joseph [—]ble—March 14, 1858
                  John Lloyd—March 15, 1858
                  
                     
                                Campbell
                             McKinney—March 15, 1858
                  Sebourn Kirkham—March 15, 1858
                  [—] Bardiaman—March 15, 1858
                  [—] Jewell—March 16, 1858
                  George R. Mckinney—March 15, 1858
                  Clifford Lloyd—March 21, 1858
                  Permelia J. Cox—March 25, 1858
                  Leavina Marten [?]—April 3, 1858
                  Stacil Smith—March 21, 1858
                  
                  A. L. Skinner—January 9, 1866
                  Cynthia Skinner—January 9, 1866
                  Mary J. Higdon, Jr. (since Barnett)—January 9, 1866
                  Cordelia Taylor—January 11, 1866
                  Samuel McManis—January 11, 1866
                  Charlotte McManis—January 11, 1866
                  Mary McManis—January 11, 1866
                  Joan McManis—January 11, 1866
                  Mary J. McKinney—January 13, 1866
                  Minerva Marts—January 13, 1866
                  B. F. McManis—January 14, 1866
                  William Skinner—January 15, 1866
                  Rebecca Skinner—January 15, 1866
                  Joseph Bailey—February 3, 1866
                  George Haden—May 5, 1866
                  Phebe Hodges—September 1, 1866
                  Letha Emery Cuppy
                  [—] Julyan
                  Caroline Scott—April 4, 1868
                  Mary Marts
                  Mary G. Marts
                  Margaret Okes
                  Sarah Beasley
                  Margaret Bunch (since Johnson)
                  Rosy Carter
                  George Plew
                  Joshua Carter
                  Nancy Carter
                  Ephrim Beasley
                  Harriett Moore
                  Laura A. Moore
                  Emily B. Moore
                  Stephen P. Beard
                  Sarah E. Cuppy
                  Mary J. Carter
                  Nancy J. Beady
                  Sarah E. Higdon (since Thompson)
                  Samira J. Marts
                  Huldah Baily
                  James H. Gardner—November 18, 1865
                  Louisa J. Taylor
                  Henrietta Lloyd
                  Bulah Thompson
                  William Bolinger—May 7, 1865
                  Victoria Bolinger—May 7, 1865
                  John Bolinger
                  Lizzy 
                                Hamilton
                            
                  
                  Ellen Hill—August 3, 1867
                  Ruth Lloyd—May 7, 1860
                  Rachael Scott
                  Nobel Scott
                  Bennett Payne
                  Martha A. Bunch
                  Synthia Bunch
                  James W. Thompson
                  Abel Warner—March 5, 1860
                  Sarah McCrosky
                  Samuel Okes
                  Charles Warner—March 9, 1860
                  Sarah Mcdonall
                  Preston Hazelrigg
                  Beulah Thompson
                  [—] Bunch, Jr.
                  Nancy J. Weaver—March 10, 1860
                  Sarah McGrew
                  Lorena Siner
                  John Okes
                  Harrison Osborn—March 11, 1860
                  William Warner
                  John L[awson] Siner—March 12, 1860
                  Stephen Bridwell
                  William McGrew
                  Benjamin Medonnall—March 17, 1860
                  Alexander Martin
                  Thomas J. Hazelrigg—May 5,1860
                  Elizabeth Smith—May 20, 1860
                  Rebecca Smith—May 20, 1860
                  James Smith—May 21, 1860
                  Melinda Scott—March, 1861
                  Margaret Thompson—March, 1861
                  Flese [?] Odell—February 8,1862
                  George Marlow—February 9, 1862
                  Asa Talor
                  Elizabeth Bunch
                  Sarah Marlow
                  F. [?] M. Mckiney
                  Teresa Okes—12
                  Manerva Plew
                  John Coffman
                  Sam. Tincher—15
                  
                  Sarah Rowland—16
                  Sarah Parker—August 3
                  Sarah J. Case—August 17
                  Julian Marlow—August 17
                  Mary Ann Akers—August 20
                  Katherine Rusher—August 20
                  Sarah K. Rusher—August 20
                  Cena Rusher—August 20
                  Lucinda P. Bunch—August 21
                  Nancy Walters—August 21
                  Jackson Rich—August 22
                  Sarah A. Rich—August 22
                  John C. Rusher—August 22
                  Rebecca J. Osburn
                  Ransom Akers—August 25
                  Annis Dudley—August 30
                  James J. Walter [or Hatter]
               
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
