
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 86, Issue 4, pages 347-468. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:86+issue:4+year:1990&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            "I enjoy but little sunshine on my path": Reverend James Welsh on Three
                    Frontiers, 1790–1825
            Emil Pocock∗
            
            The trans-Appalachian West was an open and rapidly growing frontier region at the end of the
                    eighteenth century. The lure of abundant and productive land, relatively easy river transportation,
                    and a considerably diminished threat of Indian attacks helped to swell settlements on both sides of
                    the Ohio River. Immigrants drawn from the older regions of the country by the
                    economic promises and opportunities of the Ohio Valley brought with them familiar customs, habits,
                    and beliefs, which they fully expected to transplant in their new communities. Religion was perhaps
                    the most visible and important of cultural institutions, but the nearly unlimited opportunities to
                    establish churches in the trans—Appalachian West were fraught with special problems.
                    Foremost among these was the difficulties most Protestant denominations had in supplying clergy fast
                    enough to keep up with the westering population. Partly in response to this problem, many churches
                    developed innovative practices suited to frontier conditions, such as a circuit-riding clergy,
                    missionary churches and ministers, establishment of frontier colleges to train ministers, and
                    protracted outdoor camp meetings.
            The camp meetings of the Second Great Awakening, which coincided with the flood of immigration after
                    1795, contributed powerfully to sustaining enthusiasm for religion on the frontier, but the revivals
                    intensified other problems. The threat of schismatic splintering among religion-starved settlers who
                    fell under the sway of independent-minded clergy and the interdemoninational competition for members
                    stirred by the revival imperiled the order and integrity of established denominations. Presbyterians
                    in particular 
                  
                     ∗ Emil Pocock earned his Ph.D. in history at Indiana
                            University in 1984. He is currently associate professor of history at Eastern Connecticut
                            State University, Willimantic, 
                                Connecticut
                            .
               
                     were concerned by these problems because they insisted that
                    only an educated and orthodox ministry be licensed to spread religion on the frontier. They held
                    that a well-trained clergy was especially critical for maintaining congregations amidst the fluidity
                    and uncertainties of newly settled regions, but such men were often hard to find. In this context,
                    early Kentucky Presbyterians were perhaps fortunate to discover among their young settlers James
                    Welsh, a 
                        Virginia
                    -born pioneer who seemed to have all the qualifications the Presbyterian church required
                    for propagating religion in the West.
            Welsh was university trained, experienced as a revival preacher, and enthusiastic about bringing
                    piety and Christian order to the often confused and gospel-hungry settlements. In spite of his
                    enthusiasm, Welsh did not waver from the Calvinism that was Presbyterian orthodoxy. These qualities
                    made him especially attractive, and the governing Transylvania Presbytery did not hesitate to
                    recruit Welsh just as he was finishing his religious studies in early 1792. Like many other
                    Presbyterian ministers determined to uphold Calvinist orthodoxy in the midst of the turmoil of the
                    Second Great Awakening, Welsh faced difficult challenges. From outside the church, he strove to hold
                    back the tide of irreligion, deism, and liberal fashions that accompanied Enlightenment thinking and
                    political Republicanism. From within, Welsh shunned the emotional excesses of the camp meetings and
                    opposed Arminian tendencies that grew out of popular revivalism, such as the possibility of personal
                    and universal redemption, although he counted himself among the revivalist preachers. In addition,
                    he fought against those later Presbyterians whose Arminian evangelism led them to benevolent reform,
                    social and political activism, and an impatience with those who stood in their way of perfecting the
                    world.
            In spite of his preparation and qualifications, Welsh did not prevail in any of his important
                    encounters with adversity and consequently failed to make good on the opportunities the frontier
                    offered. He was hounded out of his prestigious post as a faculty member of Transylvania University
                    before 1800, dismissed from his church at 
                  Dayton,
                            Ohio
               , some years later, and suspended
                    from the ministry while attending the needs of a struggling congregation at 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana, just a year before his tragic death in 1826. In place of welcome, praise, and
                    a gradual rise in esteem and position, Welsh encountered hostility, condemnation, and disgrace.
                    Although he had all the prerequisites a Presbyterian minister needed, Welsh did not thrive. Was it
                    simply that he was unpopular and that his orthodoxy was out of fashion among the frontiersmen he was
                    dedicated to serve?
            It seems ironic that among the heroes of frontier revivalism, which included several preachers who
                    began their careers as Presbyterians,  were men who subverted
                    the goals of established churches, overthrew tradition, and founded new denominations. These were
                    the successes among the frontier clergy. Welsh of course could not take this route to immortality,
                    but his inability and unwillingness to adjust to popular tastes in religion provide only part of an
                    explanation of his failure. Welsh's life suggests that there may have been a greater irony
                    in the Second Great Awakening: the frontier revivals likely served to constrain Welsh's
                    opportunities rather than to enlarge them. The evangelical revival movement, with its implicit
                    Arminian message and abandonment of strict Calvinist theology, swept over nearly all Protestant
                    denominations during the antebellum years. Welsh simply could not abide by the calls to action the
                    converted found implicit in the evangelical message of personal and universal redemption, whether
                    untutored biblical literalism, physical and emotional devotions, or sober calls for organized social
                    reform.
            James Welsh was born in Virginia prior to the Revolution and may have been in 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , as early as 1781. Little else is known about his upbringing,
                    although it is evident from his earliest years in Kentucky that he was well educated and committed
                    as a young man to a religious calling. Sent out by the Synod of Virginia as a missionary during the
                    fall and winter of 1790–1791, Welsh preached among outlying Kentucky settlements as a
                    licentiate of the governing Transylvania Presbytery.1 He then entered the Kentucky Academy (later
                    Transylvania University) in November, 1791, as a divinity student and boarded with Colonel Robert
                    Patterson, a 
                        Lexington
                     pioneer settler, trustee, and civic leader. Welsh remained at the academy for at least
                    two years and probably earned his medical degree while preparing himself for the ministry.2
            
            Welsh was encouraged as a student to apply for membership in the Transylvania Presbytery, but a deep
                    anxiety about his spiritual condition made him reluctant to take that step. "I am in
                    tolerable 
                  
                     1 James Welsh's birthdate is unknown and his birthplace is
                            disputed. One source suggests 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , but 
                                Virginia
                            , suggested by other authorities, is more consistent with his biography. A. W.
                            Drury, History of the City of 
                                    Dayton
                                 and 
                                    Montgomery County
                                , 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1909), 245; Robert Davidson, History of the Presbyterian Church
                                in the State of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1847), 120; William Warren Sweet, Religion on the American
                                Frontier, 1783–1840: Vol. II, The Presbyterians (
                                New York
                            , 1936), 715; Charles R. Staples, The History of Pioneer 
                                    Lexington
                                , 1779–1806 (
                                Lexington
                            , Ky., 1939), 20; James Welsh Memorandum Book, 1790–1791, Shane
                            Collection (Presbyterian Historical Society, 
                                Philadelphia
                            ).
                  
                     2 James Welsh, Journal, 1791, Shane Collection. A letter addressed to
                            him as "Mr James Welsh, student in Divinity, near 
                                Lexington
                             Canctuckey" during the summer of 1793 suggests that he was still at
                            the Kentucky Academy. Joseph Patterson to James Welsh, July 25, 1793, Shane Collection.
                            There is no direct evidence that he earned his medical degree at the academy or at the later
                            Transylvania University, but he was commonly addressed as "Dr." and
                            practiced medicine off and on for the rest of his life.
               
                    
                    
                  COLONEL ROBERT PATTERSON
                  
                  Courtesy 
                                Montgomery County
                             Historical Society. 
                        Dayton,
                                    Ohio
                     .
               
                     health of body but in great perturbation of mind," he
                    wrote to the Reverend James Blythe in February, 1792. "I have some thoughts of joining
                    Presbytery but know not what is duty … My own deadness, is my greatest
                    difficulty," he added, complaining that he was sick of 
                        Lexington
                     and ready to leave. A month later, he again confided in Blythe that a "variety
                    of things at present seem to conspire to damp my spirits, and Render this vail of tears more gloomy
                    … I enjoy but little sunshine on my path."3 In spite of his
                    depression and evident spiritual uncertainties, Welsh remained in 
                        Lexington
                     and was accepted as a full member of the presbytery within the month. Even so, his
                    anxieties did not disappear.4
            
            After completing his studies in 1793 and serving various congregations in 
                        Kentucky
                    , Welsh married Nancy Smith in 1794. His marriage and subsequent decision to move to
                            
                  Washington, Pennsylvania
                (near 
                        Pittsburgh
                    ), his wife's hometown, temporarily raised his spirits. Welsh had high hopes
                    that religion would flourish under his care, even though his new home was noted for impiety, yet he
                    also admitted some ambivalence about leaving Kentucky and the friends he had made there. He confided
                    in a letter to Patterson that he might return to 
                        Lexington
                     if religion did not prosper in Pennsylvania and revealed further that he was again
                    filled with many new cares and perplexities. A year later, his ambivalence gave way to greater
                    anxieties, especially over losing contact with Patterson. "I am sometimes a little afraid
                    that you have altogether forgotten me," Welsh wrote to his friend, and he complained that
                    Patterson had not written once since he left 
                        Kentucky
                    . Welsh trusted that Patterson was faring well "through the visicitudes of this
                    unfriendly world" and hoped to be at Patterson's house again by the spring of
                        1795.5
            
            Religion may not have prospered in western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , but it is evident that Welsh grew desperately homesick for his friends and
                    acquaintances in 
                        Kentucky
                    . By May, 1795, he had returned to 
                        Lexington
                     and accepted a joint call from the 
                        Georgetown
                     and 
                        Lexington
                     churches; he was ordained in February, 1796.6 It was not an
                    auspicious time to return to 
                        Lexington
                    , as a long-simmering dispute among the town's Presbyterians had just reached a
                    shattering climax. Some years earlier, 
                        Lexington
                    's popular revivalist minister, 
                  
                     3 James Welsh to James Blyth, March 8, 1792, in Sweet, Religion on the American Frontier, II, 716.
                  
                     4 Welsh to Blyth, February 23, 1792, in ibid.,
                            714–15. See also Joseph Patterson to Welsh, July 25, 1793, Shane Collection.
                  
                     5 Welsh to Robert Patterson, May 6, 1794, February 25, 1795, Shane
                            Collection; Welsh to Robert Patterson, April 7, 1794, Patterson Papers (
                                Montgomery County
                             Historical Society, 
                        Dayton,
                                    Ohio
                     ).
                  
                     6 Minutes of the Transylvania Presbytery, October 7, 8, 1795,
                            extracted in Sweet, Religion on the American Frontier, II,
                            159–61.
               
                    
                    
                  JAMES WELSH TO ROBERT PATTERSON, FEBRUARY 25, 1795
               
                    
                    
                  Courtesy Presbyterian Historical Society, 
                        Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
                     .
               
                     Adam Rankin, had refused to adopt Isaac Watts's modern
                    hymnal, claiming that only the literal versions of the Psalms were fit to sing in church. In 1789,
                    after Rankin began denying communion to those who dared disagree with him, a portion of the
                    congregation brought charges against the revival minister before the Transylvania Presbytery. The
                    case was not heard until 1792, but before the presbytery could formally expel the schismatic
                    preacher, Rankin withdrew from its jurisdiction. Most of his Mt. Zion congregation followed their
                    radical minister into the ultra-conservative Scottish Associate Reformed Church, leaving only a
                    minority to proclaim itself the loyal First Presbyterian Church of 
                        Lexington
                    . Patterson was among the leaders of the shattered remnant of one of 
                        Kentucky
                    's largest Presbyterian congregations, and it was this church that Welsh was
                    called to lead.7
            
            In spite of the stormy conditions in 
                        Lexington
                    , the first few years after Welsh's return were probably the high point of his
                    life. He seems to have been well accepted by the congregation, although he was obliged to practice
                    medicine to support his family between 1796 and 1799 because the congregation could not afford to
                    pay him a full salary. Welsh became involved in civic affairs, including service as a trustee of the
                    Kentucky Academy at the time it was transformed into Transylvania University in 1799. Within the
                    year, he was appointed professor of languages at the university.8 Perhaps most
                    significant for Welsh's years in his adopted home was the presence of Patterson, his friend
                    and confidant since at least 1791. When the 
                        Lexington
                     church split during the crisis over Rankin, Patterson was one of the stalwarts who had
                    upheld orthodoxy and remained one of 
                        Lexington
                    's most respected Presbyterian laymen. Patterson had undoubtedly used his
                    influence to help Welsh secure his appointments to the 
                        Lexington
                     church and to Transylvania University, as Patterson was a trustee of both. Indeed,
                    Welsh came to rely on his older friend for emotional and other more tangible kinds of support. Their
                    friendship developed into an intimate and life-long relationship upon which Welsh came to depend to
                    an extreme degree.9
            
            
               
                  7 Davidson, History of the Presbyterian Church,
                        88–97; and George W. Ranck, History of 
                        Lexington, Kentucky
                     : Its Early Annals and Recent Progress (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1872), 108–10.
               
                  8 Ranck, History of 
                                Lexington
                            , 110; Neils Henry Sonne, Liberal 
                                Kentucky
                            , 1780–1828 (
                            Lexington
                        , Ky., 1965), 66–67; and Robert Peter, Transylvania
                            University: Its Origin, Rise, Decline, and Fall (
                            Louisville
                        , Ky., 1896), 70, 82; and Welsh to Robert Patterson, October 30, 1799, Shane
                        Collection.
               
                  9 Charlotte Reeve Conover, Concerning the Forefathers: Being
                            a Memoir with Personal Narrative and Letters of Two Pioneers, Col. Robert Patterson and Col.
                            John Johnston (
                     Dayton, Ohio
                  , 1902); Ranck, History of 
                                Lexington
                            , 110. Welsh's relationship with Robert Patterson is revealed in
                        Welsh to Robert Patterson, February 25, 1795, May 6, 1796, December 4, 1802, Shane Collection;
                        Robert Patterson to Welsh, September 13, 1816, Patterson Papers.
            
            
            This bit of sunshine that crossed Welsh's path in 
                        Lexington
                     unfortunately did not last long. When he defended Presbyterian orthodoxy in the face of
                    attacks both from liberal and revival camps soon after taking his university chair, he placed
                    himself in the very center of doctrinal and political controversy. Liberals, who espoused
                    Jeffersonian political beliefs and religious deism, had gained a strong place in Kentucky society,
                    and in 1801 they demanded that Welsh resign his position at Transylvania. Liberal students charged
                    that Welsh favored Presbyterian and Federalist scholars; that he was intolerant, emotional, and
                    impatient with those whose views differed from his own; and that he was often inattentive to his
                    duties. Welsh did have a tendency toward haughtiness, and his high-toned Federalism and
                    Presbyterianism were clearly an unpopular combination in republican 
                        Kentucky
                    . In spite of the charges and the public spectacle the controversy prompted, the
                    orthodox majority on the university's board of trustees was eager to uphold Welsh and the
                    forces of religious and political conservatism, even though they did not like him and found him to
                    be difficult and intractable. An official inquiry cleared Welsh of any misconduct, but continuing
                    student pressure, public humiliation, and popular feeling against him forced him to resign.10
            
            Welsh remained the pastor of the 
                        Lexington
                     church after his resignation from Transylvania and participated in the revivals that
                    swept across Kentucky in 1801, although there were no indications that he was anything but orthodox
                    in his theology.11 Meanwhile, other Presbyterian revivalists were preaching a
                    mixture of Arminianism and antinomianism that directly contradicted Calvinist doctrines of
                    predestination and limited grace. This mixture presented a special dilemma for Welsh during 1802 and
                    1803 when the Synod of Kentucky heard complaints against certain New Light ministers. Richard
                    McNemar and John Thompson had been charged with deviation from church doctrine, Arminianism, and
                    preaching dangerous and pernicious ideas. The synod upheld the charges by a seventeen to six vote,
                    concluding the ministers' views were "essentially different from
                    Calvinism." Although Welsh voted with the minority, he did not lose the confidence of the
                    presbytery; indeed, perhaps because of his sympathies he was named to a select 
                  
                     10 Sonne, Liberal 
                                    Kentucky
                                , 68–73. Some years earlier, a correspondent had chided
                            Welsh for being "quite above the World" and beseeched him to think of more
                            ordinary men in his sermons. Andrew McClelland to Welsh, July 3, 1792, Shane Collection.
                  
                     11 "Extract of a Letter, from Colonel Robert Patterson, of 
                                Lexington
                             (Ken.) to Rev. Doctor John King, of 
                                Pennsylvania
                             [Sept. 25, 1801]," 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Missionary Magazine and Repository of Religious Intelligence for the Year
                                1802, III (1802), 121. Welsh did not dissent from presbytery reassertions of
                            Calvinist doctrine; see, for example, Miami Presbytery Minutes, April 3, 1811 (Presbyterian
                            Historical Society).
               
                     committee of four to effect reconciliation. This effort failed
                    as one member of the reconciliation committee joined the dissidents, and five ministers in all
                    withdrew from the presbytery. McNemar, Thompson, and fellow revivalists Robert Marshall, John
                    Dunlevy, and Barton Stone then organized the independent Presbytery of 
                        Springfield
                     (
                        Ohio
                    ), later known as the Christian Church.12 Although Welsh had some
                    sympathy for the revivalists, his inclinations did not extend to abandoning orthodox doctrine or to
                    joining the schismatic revivalists. His actions rather may have been a reflection of the more
                    personal concerns he had about the summary treatment of unpopular men, for he too had been the
                    object of similar attacks.
            A year after the New Light ministers broke from the Kentucky Synod, Welsh moved to
                            
                  Dayton, Ohio
               , a frontier village on the Miami River fifty miles north of 
                        Cincinnati
                    . He arrived just as the revival movement was sweeping up the Presbyterian churches in
                    the region and putting the whole Miami Valley in religious turmoil. Although the small 
                        Dayton
                     church, founded only six years previously, was one of the few Presbyterian
                    congregations in the Miami River Valley to resist the New Light stampede, there was considerable
                    revivalist sentiment in the area.13 Welsh's move to the Ohio frontier
                    may have been especially welcome because he had the formal training and experience the Presbyterian
                    church was desperately seeking to stem the tide of unrestrained revivalism. Even so, Welsh probably
                    did not leave Kentucky with the intention of bringing orthodoxy to the Ohio frontier, nor is there
                    any indication he left because of any problems he had in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Despite his rough treatment in 
                        Lexington
                     and the dilemma in which the revivals had placed him, he had apparently been in good
                    standing with his church.
            The key to Welsh's move to 
                        Dayton
                     probably lay with Patterson. His friend and patron had purchased one thousand acres of
                    land just south of town and moved his entire household to his new farm in 1804. In fact, the
                    fifty-year-old Patterson had been planning a move to Ohio for several years. He already had interest
                    in a woolen mill his son operated in a neighboring county and may have been restless in the
                    fast-growing area around 
                        Lexington
                    . In addition, Patterson had long opposed slavery, although he continued to own slaves
                    himself, and was frustrated over the stalled anti-slavery 
                  
                     12 Sweet, Religion on the American Frontier, II,
                            94–97; Davidson, History of the Presbyterian Church,
                            192–98; Catharine C. Cleveland, The Great Revival in the West,
                            1797–1805 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1916), 136–37; Staples, History of Pioneer 
                                    Lexington
                                , 271; J. P. MacLean, "The Kentucky Revival and Its Influence
                            on the Miami Valley," Ohio Archaeological and Historical
                            Publications, XII (1903), 253–63.
                  
                     13 MacLean, "Kentucky Revival," 259.
               
                     campaign in 
                        Kentucky
                    .14 The move to 
                        Dayton
                     provided Patterson with a fresh start on a new frontier, and his illustrious past led
                    him to expect a leading role in building his new community. He joined 
                        Dayton
                    's small Presbyterian church and may have suggested to Welsh its possibilities,
                    as 
                        Dayton
                     did not have a permanent minister. The move augured well for Welsh, for once again he
                    had the support and patronage of his influential friend, and he too could make a clean break with
                    the past.
            Neither man realized the promise that they believed this frontier town could offer. Patterson never
                    got the opportunity to exert the influence his previous standing in Kentucky might have led him to
                    expect, and Welsh was never fully accepted by the 
                        Dayton
                     Presbyterians. Patterson's troubles began soon after moving to 
                        Dayton
                     when he was twice brought into county court for holding slaves on his farm. His
                    accusers were several prominent Presbyterians of mid-Atlantic origins, most notably town proprietor
                    Daniel Cooper of 
                        New Jersey
                     and his allies. Although their motives were not entirely clear, a simple intolerance
                    for slavery would have been reason enough. It is likely that personal animosity between Patterson
                    and Cooper, the area's two largest landowners and natural competitors for prestige and
                    office, was also a significant factor. Patterson was found innocent of holding slaves in one case
                    but guilty in the second; his reputation was irreparably damaged as a consequence.15
            
            Patterson remained bitter about his treatment at the hands of 
                        Dayton
                    's leading men for the rest of his life. He took no role in 
                        Dayton
                    's public affairs and removed himself from the 
                        Dayton
                     Presbyterian church, vowing never again to have any association with the men who had
                    accused him. He was also unsuccessful in seeking state-level political office, as his enemies used
                    his alleged sympathies for slavery as an objection to his nomination or election.16 As 
                  
                     14 There may have been an additional reason Robert Patterson chose to
                            move to 
                                Dayton
                             in 1804. He sold much of his Kentucky holdings and his interests in 
                                Cincinnati
                             when he was forced to forfeit a $6,000 security bond posted to
                            enable a friend to take a position as revenue collector. With the funds left over, he bought
                            cheaper land just outside of 
                                Dayton
                            . Conover, Concerning the Forefathers, 266-017; Joan Wells
                            Coward, Kentucky in the New Republic: The Process of Constitution Making (
                                Lexington
                            , Ky., 1979), 118–19.
                  
                     15 Conover, Concerning the Forefathers, 284,
                            312–14. Two separate cases with the same name were brought concurrently before
                            the county court in 1805 and settled that year. See Ohio v. Patterson
                            (1805), 
                                Montgomery County
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , Clerk of Courts, Common Pleas Civil Law Record, 1803–1833
                            (Department of Archives and Special Collections, Wright State University Library, 
                                Dayton
                            ).
                  
                     16 Andrew McCalla to Robert Patterson, July 5, 1806, Welsh to Robert
                            Patterson, —–5, 1808, and David Reid to Robert Patterson, October 3,
                            1808, Patterson Papers. Patterson lost to Daniel Cooper in the 1808 election for the Ohio
                            Senate and was defeated in the elections of 1810 and 1812 for a seat in the Ohio House of
                            Representatives. 
                                Montgomery County
                            , Election Abstracts, 1803–1826 (Department of Archives and Special
                            Collections, Wright State University Library). Patterson's name does not appear in
                            any records of the Presbyterian church.
               
                    
                    
                  DANIEL COOPER
                  
               
                    
                  FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH, DAYTON, OHIO, 1800–1805
                  Courtesy 
                                Montgomery County
                             Historical Society. 
                        Dayton,
                                    Ohio
                     
                  
               
                     humiliating a defeat as this was for Patterson, it was an even
                    greater blow to Welsh, who depended on Patterson's stature and influence. Welsh's
                    second marriage in 1811 to Margaret Patterson Venable, a widowed Patterson daughter, only
                    strengthened his ties to the family. In other situations, this would have been a fortuitous union,
                    but Welsh's loyalty to the Pattersons made him an easy target for Cooper and other leading
                    men of 
                        Dayton
                    . Once Patterson had been alienated from the community, Welsh's position was
                    exposed.
            The 
                        Dayton
                     men who turned on Patterson and then Welsh were prominent merchants, craftsmen,
                    shopkeepers, and professionals, primarily from 
                        New Jersey
                    , but they counted among their numbers men from several states.17
                    They were unified by their ambition not only to make 
                        Dayton
                     a prosperous commercial center but also by their vision of the central role the church
                    might play in ordering the community. Their view of religion's social role had been
                    influenced by the currents of Presbyterian and Congregational evangelicalism that were just
                    gathering in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic states. Northern evangelicalism suggested a modified
                    version of the Calvinist doctrine of election, which allowed for greater individual initiative in
                    seeking personal salvation and encouraged social reform activities. These evangelical reformers
                    scorned the southern-style revivals for their undisciplined emotionalism, yet they were no more
                    comfortable with the doctrinal orthodoxy that Welsh and other conservative revivalists offered. Many
                    of the Jersey men and their allies may not have cared to defend the particularities of election,
                    humankind's inability to save itself, and special redemption, but they placed more emphasis
                    on one's ability to effect a spiritual change within and to reform society at large. In
                    this emphasis they probably differed with Welsh because they sought to use the church as a base for
                    wide-ranging social reforms predicated on the assumption that organized people could do much to
                    change the social and moral condition of the world.18
            
            
               
                  17 The leading members of the Jerseyite connection included Cooper (a 
                            New Jersey
                         surveyor and proprietor of 
                            Dayton
                        ); Horatio G. Phillips (successful 
                            Dayton
                         merchant, recruited by Cooper from 
                            New Jersey
                        ); Joseph Pierce (merchant from 
                            Rhode Island
                        ); James Steele (Pierce's partner and brother-in-law, a merchant from 
                            Kentucky
                        ); Isaac Burnet (newspaper editor, from 
                            New Jersey
                        ); William King (ferry keeper, raised in Pennsylvania and lived in 
                            Kentucky
                        ). All were trustees of the Presbyterian church.
               
                  18 The religious and social ideas of those identified as
                        "evangelical reformers" are inferred from their behavior, as none left
                        explicit reference to their thinking. They all opposed Welsh as minister and were instrumental
                        in calling two northern men to succeed him, Backus Wilbur (a 
                            Princeton
                         graduate from 
                            New Jersey
                        , called in 1817) and Ahab Jenks (a Connecticut Congregationalist, called in 1819).
                        By the early 1820s, these reformers and their wives were the most prominent founders and leaders
                        of a miniature benevolent empire in 
                            Dayton
                        , which included an academy
            
            
            Welsh's personality and latent sectional animosities also contributed to the
                    minister's problems. He had already proven that he was a difficult and irascible person,
                    and his behavior in 
                        Dayton
                     did not indicate that he had changed. In addition, many of his Jerseyite detractors may
                    not have cared for his southern revival background or for his most ardent supporters, the poor
                    Kentucky farmers in the neighborhood. In spite of mutual animosities, the 
                        Dayton
                     church could not entirely do without Welsh. There was a shortage of trained
                    Presbyterian ministers throughout the West, and Welsh was in particular demand by other Miami Valley
                    churches. So long as Welsh lived in 
                        Dayton
                    , the governing presbytery could not ignore him when the 
                        Dayton
                     church requested the services of a minister.19 The Jerseyite
                    reformers could not get rid of Welsh either, so they made life for him as difficult as possible. The
                    congregation never offered him a regular call nor was any attempt made to raise a subscription for
                    his salary. Instead, the church called him on a year-by-year basis, often for less than full-time
                    service. Welsh was forced to supplement meager contributions from members by offering his services
                    as a physician and as the proprietor of an apothecary's shop.20
            
            Welsh fought back as best he could. He had support from a number of Kentucky farmers who lived in the
                    surrounding country and a few friends within town, although these men were clearly a minority of the
                    congregation. Welsh also had at least three allies among the five elders who constituted the
                    church's ruling session: John Miller, Hezekiah Robinson, and John McKaig.21 The session had primary responsibility for calling a minister, enforcing discipline, and
                    accepting new members; Welsh exerted considerable power as its moderator and manipulated it for his
                    own interests. He probably contrived to prevent the election of additional elders, 
                  (1808), Sunday school (1817), female Bible society (1817), county Bible society (1822),
                            and mission society (1822). These men also held prominent political offices, including town
                            trustee and representatives to the Ohio legislature. In contrast, Welsh and his allies were
                            notably absent from all of these activities. Wallace N. Jamison, Religion in 
                                    New Jersey
                                : A Brief History (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1964), 34–43; Charles C. Cole, Jr., The Social
                                Ideas of the Northern Evangelicals, 1826–1860 (
                                New York
                            , 1954); and Lois W. Banner, "Presbyterian Voluntarism in the Early
                            Republic," Journal of Presbyterian History, L (Fall, 1972), 187–205.
                            Contrast Anne C. Loveland, Southern Evangelicals and the Social Order,
                                1800–1860 (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , La., 1980), 91–129, 159–85.
                  
                     19 Welsh supplied eight other churches between 1808 and 1817 in
                            addition to serving 
                                Dayton
                            . Miami Presbytery Minutes, 1808–1817.
                  
                     20 Miami Presbytery Minutes, October 8, 1808, April 3, 1811, April 12,
                            1812, March 23, 1813; 
                                Dayton
                            
                            Repertory, March 1, December 7, 1809; 
                                Dayton
                            
                            Ohio Centinel, February 6, 1812.
                  
                     21 John Miller was a hatter from 
                                Kentucky
                            ; Hezekiah Robinson was a miller, probably from 
                                Kentucky
                            ; and John McKaig was a farmer. As for the other two elders, James Hanna (weaver
                            from 
                                Ireland
                            ) remained neutral for a number of years before actively opposing Welsh, and
                            William King (ferry keeper from 
                                Kentucky
                            ) opposed him from the start.
               
                     for example, as no elections to augment the session were held
                    after 1806. The effect was to leave the session essentially friendly to Welsh and in a position to
                    frustrate his critics. The session was also remiss in its duties, perhaps deliberately so. It did
                    not keep minutes of its meetings, as required, and rarely forwarded congregational reports to the
                    presbytery. Deliberate or not, the session's laxities worked to frustrate Welsh's
                    detractors. There could be no accurate accounting of members without session records, which might
                    have made it easier for Welsh to disguise the extent of division among the congregation. Similarly,
                    the presbytery may have found it difficult to take action against Welsh without specific complaints
                    by the elders, although it did cite 
                        Dayton
                     for its failure to send annual reports.22
            
            Welsh rarely attended presbytery meetings anyway and would not have been on hand to answer any
                    questions concerning irregularities in the 
                        Dayton
                     church had they been posed. Nevertheless, the presbytery was suspicious as early as
                    1808 when it wrote to Welsh inquiring why he had not attended presbytery meetings for two years. It
                    hoped that his absences were not intentional, but offered him a reasonable chance to explain. 
                        Ill-
                    health was his reply, as it would be on several other occasions, and apparently this was
                    a satisfactory response.23 Welsh may also have been too exhausted to make every
                    semi-annual presbytery meeting. In addition to preaching in 
                        Dayton
                     an average of two Sundays a month, he was also called upon to supply churches in a
                    fifty-mile radius, necessitating journeys of one or two days for each visit. He also made rounds as
                    a physician and attempted to keep his drugstore in 
                        Dayton
                    . Chronic ill health and strenuous demands of his work undoubtedly took their toll, yet
                    Welsh would have had good reason to avoid the presbytery whenever possible even without these
                    convenient excuses.
            The congregation's board of trustees also remained in the hands of Kentuckians friendly to
                    Welsh. Elections for this governing body were not called for six years after 1807, although the
                    usual procedure provided for annual terms of office.24 Trustees met 
                  
                     22 Miami Presbytery Minutes, October 6, 1808, October 1, 1811,
                            September 12, 1812, September 27, 1814. Daniel Cooper charged Welsh with cheating in church
                            elections and other dishonorable dealings, and the church records indicate considerable
                            irregularities. Jerry Fox Vincent, A Cabin Grows: The History of a Church,
                                1799–1946 (
                        Dayton,
                                    Ohio
                     , 1949), 7.
                  
                     23 Welsh was absent from over 60 percent of all presbytery meetings
                            between 1808 and 1822. Discussion of Welsh's absences are found in 
                                Washington
                             Presbytery Minutes, October 4, 1809, in "Minutes of 
                                Washington
                             (
                                Ohio
                            ) Presbytery, 1808–1811," Journal of
                                Presbyterian History, XXVII (December, 1949), 229–34; Miami Presbytery
                            Minutes, April 3, 1811, April 12, 1812, April 15, 1814, October 5, 1819.
                  
                     24 The trustees between 1807 and 1813 were David Reid (from 
                                Kentucky
                            ), John Ewing (
                                Kentucky
                            ), John Miller (
                                Kentucky
                            ), James Miller (
                                Kentucky
                            ), Cooper (
                                New Jersey
                            ), Hanna (
                                Ireland
                            ), and McKaig (former residence unknown). Book of Minutes of the First
                            Presbyterian Church of 
                                Dayton
                            , 1804–1828, Records of the First Presbyterian Church of 
                                Dayton
                             (Presbyterian Historical Society).
               
                     separately from the minister, and they had primary
                    responsibility for the church's physical property and finances. Control of the
                    congregation's finances provided one opportunity for Welsh's enemies to gain
                    control of the church and perhaps oust him, for although they were not a majority on the board, they
                    were by far the wealthiest men in town. They had already made Welsh uncomfortable by denying him a
                    salary; they could also use their wealth to insinuate themselves into positions of power. Thus when
                    the trustees proposed building a meetinghouse (the congregation met in the county courthouse after
                    selling their log cabin in 1804), a door was opened for Welsh's eventual downfall. The
                    trustees began in 1807 by applying to the county for deeds to four donation lots offered by
                    proprietor Cooper. The prospect of owning real estate and a building in turn prompted the board to
                    seek incorporation for the church. The special act of incorporation was introduced into the Ohio
                    legislature by Cooper, who was also a state senator, and finally passed its required third reading
                    in 1812. It granted the church the right to raise subscriptions, buy and sell property, and other
                    privileges, although the trustees had engaged in some of these practices already. It also required
                    new elections to the board, which provided an opportunity Welsh's reform-minded opponents
                        exploited.25
            
            The 1812 election for trustees resulted in a rough balance between the Welsh and reform factions, as
                    did the balloting the following year. The mixed board proceeded slowly, doing little more than
                    clearing a new graveyard and buying a more favorable building lot. The 1814 election brought some of
                    the long-smoldering conflict into the open, as questions were raised concerning who had the right to
                    vote. Because there were no records of members and the charter was silent on the matter, the board
                    declared that those persons who believed themselves to be baptized, who resided within ten miles of 
                        Dayton
                    , and who contributed to the congregation were eligible to vote. As the session kept no
                    baptismal records either, residence and contribution to the church were the operating criteria,
                    which favored the evangelical reform faction led by Cooper. The trustees drew up a list of
                    twenty-eight men who were declared voting members, and a majority of them were men known to oppose
                    Welsh. Seventeen of these men actually voted, and, not surprisingly, four of the five trustees they
                    chose (Cooper, Horatio G. Phillips, Mathew Patton, and James Steele) were among the leading
                    reformers and most prominent residents. The formal exchange of offices took place under unusual
                    circumstances and amid deep mistrust and evident ill will. The outgoing and incoming 
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., May 9, 1807, December 3, 1811, and April 6, 1812. An Act
                            Incorporating the First Presbyterian Congregation in the Town of 
                                Dayton
                            , 10 Ohio Acts (1812), 85–88.
               
                     members of the board met in the law offices of John Folkerth, a
                    fellow Presbyterian and justice of the peace. Under his supervision, the records and financial
                    papers of the church were transferred to the new trustees.26
            
            The new trustees immediately embarked on a plan to build a brick meetinghouse near the center of
                    town, which required an additional $250 to purchase a more desirable lot from proprietor
                    Cooper. Building costs already exceeded several thousand dollars, but some of the wealthiest and
                    most prominent reformers were not entirely satisfied. They wanted a clear mandate for an even larger
                    meetinghouse than planned, including the addition of a second story and steeple, since the leading
                    reformers were willing to pay for it. In preparation for the next annual trustee elections, they
                    contrived to tighten requirements for voting a second time as a means of securing the election of
                    men who would support their grand plan. The trustees obliged by declaring prior to the 1815 poll
                    that none but residents of the town and neighborhood who had contributed to the building of the
                    meetinghouse or to the support of the minister and who were willing to come under the government of
                    the church were eligible to vote. These new qualifications demanded a more specific financial
                    commitment to the church and excluded most of Welsh's few remaining supporters. Just twelve
                    men voted in 1815 and elected a board dominated by the ambitious reformers.27
            
            Confrontation with the minister burst into the open when the new trustees led the effort to get rid
                    of Welsh. The 
                        Dayton
                    
                    Ohio Republican announced in May that the presbytery had assigned several
                    ministers to preach to the 
                        Dayton
                     church in place of Welsh, a fabricated report as insulting to Welsh as it was offensive
                    to the presbytery. In its September, 1815, meeting, the presbytery appointed a committee to
                    investigate the source of the "scandalous and abusive" article and further ruled
                    that a request for supply from the 
                        Dayton
                     church, no doubt the work of the determined reformers, 
                  
                     26 Book of Minutes, May 29, June 12, June 19, September 28, 1813, and
                            April 12, 1814. Henry L. Brown, "Early History of the First Presbyterian Church of 
                                Dayton
                            ," in A History of the First Presbyterian Church of
                                        
                           Dayton, Ohio
                        , from 1845 to 1880, ed. Clarke
                            McDermont (
                        Dayton, Ohio
                     , 1880), 13. List of male members 118131,
                            Miscellaneous Papers, 1814–1918, Records of the First Presbyterian Church.
                            Election held for trustees and other officers of the First Presbyterian Congregation of 
                                Dayton
                            , April 5, 1814, ibid. James Hanna, the fifth trustee elected in 1814, soon
                            joined those attempting to oust Welsh.
                  
                     27 Edwin A. Parrott, "Historical Sketch of the Church, and
                            Its Pastor," in Centenary Souvenir, Commemorative of the Completion of
                                a Century by the First Presbyterian Church of 
                           Dayton, Ohio
                        
                     
                                    (
                        Dayton, Ohio
                     , 1900), 36. Book of Minutes, May 5, 1814, April
                            4, 1815. An election held for Trustees and other officers of the first Presbyterian
                            Congregation of 
                                Dayton
                            , April 4, 1815, Miscellaneous Papers, 1814–1918. The trustees
                            elected in 1815 were Williams, King, Patton, Burnet, and Hanna.
               
                    
                    
                  FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
                  
                            Built 1817; taken down 1839.
                        
                  CORNER SECOND AND LUDLOW STREETS, DATTON, OHIO.
                  
                            The second Church built by this Congregation.
                        
                  Courtesy Emil Pocock.
               
                     formers, was out of order, presumably because it did not come
                    from the elders and because the congregation still had the services of Welsh. It resolved to meet in 
                        Dayton
                     the following spring to "enquire into and redress the evils existing in said
                        church."28
            
            The presbytery was not pleased with what it found in 
                        Dayton
                     when it met there in April, 1816. It concluded that a second request for supply from 
                        Dayton
                     was disorderly, in spite of the difficulties over Welsh, because it found no genuine
                    cause for complaint against him; the presbytery also admonished the trustees for not providing Welsh
                    with adequate salary. When it realized that the church was hopelessly divided, it advised the
                    congregation to lay aside contention and be satisfied with ministers the presbytery could supply
                    "until God in his providence shall send them a pastor to whom the affections of the people
                    may generally be united." As a compromise, the presbytery proposed that Welsh serve part
                    time, provided the church compensate him. It also dropped its investigation into the source of the
                    scandalous newspaper article and directed the elders to be more attentive to the congregation. Two
                    months later, the presbytery directed the 
                        Dayton
                     session to hold new elections for elders under supervision of a presbytery member and
                    to open a session book.29
            
            Confident of the eventual outcome of the crisis, the reformers went ahead with plans to replace
                    Welsh. In June, they circulated a subscription for the support of one Reverend Moses Allen for a
                    year, which was signed by all sitting trustees. Seventy-eight men subscribed $656, with
                    Cooper, Phillips, Steele, and Joseph Pierce the major contributors. Despite Allen's evident
                    support from a large portion of the congregation, once again the presbytery refused 
                        Dayton
                    's request for services of a minister other than Welsh. Instead, it suggested
                    that elders James Miller and John H. Williams conduct a poll of the congregation to determine if
                    Welsh should be retained. In the meantime, it allowed Welsh to serve the church at his
                        discretion.30
            
            The presbytery gave him the benefit of every doubt, but Welsh became despondent as it became clear he
                    would not last much longer. His support was weakening even among the elders, and he probably knew
                    the poll of the congregation would show little enthusiasm for keeping him. He complained to
                    Patterson that he was "nearly broken down" and accused his old friend of
                    abandoning him and his daughter to suffer "anything & everything, that may 
                  
                     28
                            
                                Dayton
                            
                            Ohio Republican, May 4, 1814. The paper was coedited by Burnet, one of the
                            chief proponents of an enlarged building. Miami Presbytery Minutes, September 19, 1815.
                  
                     29 Miami Presbytery Minutes, April 5, 1814, April 2, June 25, 1816.
                  
                     30 Subscription to support Moses Allen for one year, June 28, 1816,
                            Miscellaneous Papers, 1814–1918; Miami Presbytery Minutes, September 17,
                        1816.
               
                     befall us, before … your enemies." The five
                    sitting elders were confirmed in their offices as a result of the special election mandated by the
                    presbytery, and the new session met without Welsh. Reverend Peter Monfort, "moderator by
                    invitation," opened a session book in May, 1817, and began the business of bringing the
                    congregation to order.31
            
            Not long afterward, eighty-two men signed a subscription for the support of Reverend Backus Wilbur, a
                    licentiate from 
                        New Jersey
                    , for a five-month period. Welsh's friends responded a few days later on March
                    25 with a petition signed by forty-four persons sent to the Miami Presbytery requesting that Welsh
                    be allowed to preach two Sundays a month in 
                        Dayton
                    . They accompanied it with a subscription for $166 toward his salary. The
                    list of forty-four petitioners and the meagerness of the subscription revealed the shallowness of
                    Welsh's support. Only ten signers had any previous or subsequent association with the 
                        Dayton
                     congregation. Former trustees Williams, Robinson, and Andrew Hood were among the
                    petitioners, while none of the reform trustees cared to retain Welsh. Among prominent non-members
                    was Patterson, who came out of his self-imposed exile to aid his friend.32 This
                    petition drive was no effort to retain Welsh in the pulpit; rather the Kentucky revivalists realized
                    that support for their minister had collapsed utterly and that he would be forced out. Their effort
                    was instead aimed at establishing a Second Presbyterian Church. Welsh himself moderated the meeting
                    that elected trustees for the proposed second church; among those named were Hood and Robinson, two
                    of Welsh's most loyal allies among the old trustees and elders, and Henry L. Brown, another
                    Patterson son-in-law, but a man who also had no previous association with the 
                        Dayton
                     church.33
            
            The crisis over Welsh broke during 1817. The presbytery that assembled in April considered the
                    petition to retain Welsh in a second church and the reformers' request for the services of
                    Wilbur. Hanna, 
                        Dayton
                    's lay representative to the presbytery, reiterated the reformers'
                    complaints about Welsh. In its decision, the presbytery gave the 
                        Dayton
                     congregation permission to hire Wilbur 
                  
                     31 Elders John Miller, Hanna, King, and McKaig pledged to
                            Allen's subscription. Welsh to Robert Patterson, September 13, 1816, Patterson
                            Papers; Session Book of the Presbyterian Church, 
                                Dayton
                            , 1817–1839, May 24, 1817, Records of the First Presbyterian Church.
                  
                     32 Again, reformers Phillips, Steele, Pierce, and King were among the
                            major subscribers. Subscription to support Backus Wilbur for five months, March 20, 1817,
                            Miscellaneous Papers, 1814–1918; Petition to the Miami Presbytery, March 25,
                            1817, ibid.; Miami Presbytery Minutes, April 1, 1817.
                  
                     33
                            
                                Dayton
                            
                            Ohio Watchman, November 20, 1817; anonymous letter, ibid., December 4, 1817; 
                                Brown
                            , "Early History of the First Presbyterian Church," 10. Henry
                            L. Brown was secretary to Colonel Robert Patterson in 1793 and remained close to the
                            Pattersons after both men moved to the 
                                Dayton
                             area. 
                                Brown
                             married Katherine Patterson. Conover, Concerning the
                            Forefathers, 288–89, 290.
               
                     temporarily, pending a full investigation, and held that the
                    two private petitions for Welsh's services were disorderly, although it left other charges
                    for the next meeting.34 Meanwhile Welsh charged Hanna with
                    "slanderously and unjustly accusing him of falsehood and dishonorable conduct" in
                    the presbytery as Williams, Robinson, and Hood also brought charges against Hanna. The presbytery,
                    in turn, called upon 
                        Dayton
                     to furnish proof that a majority of the congregation opposed Welsh and disallowed
                    another private petition for Welsh's services.35 During the summer, the
                    presbytery dropped its investigation as the pending complaints were quietly settled, and it accepted
                    evidence presented by the 
                        Dayton
                     elders that a majority of the congregation opposed Welsh. Although it allowed the
                    congregation to call Wilbur and excluded Welsh from serving in 
                        Dayton
                    , he remained in good standing with the presbytery.36
            
            Welsh was assigned to supply other churches in the Miami Presbytery for several years after that
                    fateful conclusion to his ordeal, but he resumed his lax attendance at presbytery meetings.37 Welsh remained in 
                        Dayton
                     only another year, all the while struggling to make his living with means at hand. He
                    continued his medical practice, operated his drugstore, and platted a speculative tract called North 
                        Dayton
                    , which failed to attract the mechanics Welsh hoped would buy his lots. Late in 1818, he
                    decided to leave 
                        Dayton
                     and move on to 
                        Vevay
                    , a struggling village in adjacent southwestern Indiana where he had preached from time
                    to time. He sold his house, town lots, household goods, and cow, and petitioned the county court for
                    permission to vacate his unsuccessful North 
                        Dayton
                     plat.38 By early 1819, he was living in 
                        Vevay
                    .
            Welsh faced the prospect of establishing himself on his third frontier with uncharacteristic
                    optimisim. "Business is not yet, very lively, but the country is filling fast &
                    that business will yearly encrease I have no doubt," he wrote to his brother-in-law Francis
                    Patterson. Welsh was preoccupied with the move, and in the absence of a regular call to a settled
                    church, he became more concerned about financial matters in his new home. He built a house 
                  
                     34 Miami Presbytery Minutes, April 1, 1817.
                  
                     35 Session Book of the Presbyterian Church, 
                                Dayton
                            , 1817–1839, May 24, 1817, June 5, 1817, Records of the First
                            Presbyterian Chruch.
                  
                     36 Session Book, August 13, 1817; Miami Presbytery Minutes, September
                            2, 1817. William Gray to Miami Presbytery, September 4, 1817 (Presbyterian Historical
                            Society).
                  
                     37 Welsh attended just two of twenty presbytery meetings between
                            October 28, 1817 (the first meeting after his dismissal from 
                                Dayton
                            ), and April 9, 1822 (when his church at 
                                Vevay
                            , Indiana, came under the jurisdiction of the new Presbytery of 
                                Cincinnati
                            ). Miami Presbytery Minutes, 1817–1822. Extended illness was his
                            likely excuse, as the presbytery accepted his reasons as satisfactory. Ibid., October 5,
                            1819.
                  
                     38
                            
                                Dayton
                            
                            Ohio Watchman, March 11, 1816, April 23, May 7, 1818; Welsh to Francis
                            Patterson, February 15, 1819, Patterson Papers.
               
                    
                    
                  HOME OF REVEREND JAMES WELSH, VEVAY, INDIANA TWENTIETH-CENTURY SKETCH BY WILL VAWTER
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Neg. no C4663.
                and probably a new drugstore, in part with lumber he obtained from Robert Patterson, and
                    discussed business prospects with the Pattersons.39 Perhaps because of his new
                    involvements, he often failed to supply the few congregations the presbytery assigned him and more
                    than once was called upon to provide sufficient reason.40
            
            In spite of this relapse to old habits, Welsh was offered an opportunity to redeem himself in 1822
                    when he was assigned to the new Presbytery of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , created from the older Miami Presbytery. The new presbytery treated Welsh with some
                    deference and respect: he was appointed moderator of the presbytery, was sent as the
                    presbytery's representative to the annual General Assembly, and was assigned to a number of
                    other responsible tasks. He also accepted a call from the congregation at 
                        Vevay
                     for his ministerial services in the same year, although its supplication did not
                    mention a regular salary.41 Unfortunately, Welsh was unable to 
                  
                     39 Welsh to Francis Patterson, February 15, 1819, Welsh to Robert
                            Patterson, July 25, 1819, Patterson Papers.
                  
                     40 Miami Presbytery Minutes, October 5, 1819, April 18, 1829.
                  
                     41
                            
                                Cincinnati
                             Presbytery, Minutes, April 10, 11, October 15, 16, 17, 1822, April 8, 1823,
                            Presbyterian Historical Society.
               
                     follow up on this new opportunity. Not in good health and
                    without a regular income, he was naturally under great pressure to provide for his family. His
                    medical practice, drugstore, and other business ventures suffered under the depressed economic
                    conditions following the banking panic of 1819. Increasingly, he turned his attentions to his
                    faltering businesses and to the immediate needs of his family at the expense of his ministerial
                        duties.42
            
            Welsh was thus under a great deal of strain after 1822. In addition to his evident ill health and
                    poor financial condition, he was advancing in years and had few options left. He must have also been
                    bitterly disappointed by his failure as a minister and the wretched condition in which he found
                    himself near the end of his life. Welsh was desperate and turned to alcohol to relieve his pains.
                    The presbytery could perhaps excuse his absences and failures to perform minsterial duties for
                    reasons of health or overwork, but when word reached its ears that Welsh had taken to excessive
                    drinking, it could no longer remain impassive. On April 18, 1825, the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Presbytery opened a formal investigation into Welsh's conduct at 
                        Vevay
                    .43
            
            Welsh tried to delay the three-man investigating committee appointed to go to 
                        Vevay
                     and make inquiries, claiming that however innocent he might be, damage to his character
                    would result from the public nature of the investigation. Nevertheless, the committee would not
                    alter its charge and went ahead with its inquiries. Its report to the presbytery in July cited three
                    specific chargeable sins under the discipline of the church: intemperate use of wine and strong
                    spirits, unfair dealings in the transaction of temporal business, and neglect of church interests.
                    Welsh was ordered to appear at 
                        Vevay
                     to answer the charges before a special meeting of the presbytery.44
            
            The presbytery opened the trial on Wednesday, August 10, 1825, expecting it to last only two or three
                    days, but a series of tragic delays stretched it out to more than a week, thoroughly exasperating
                    the presbytery and driving Welsh to distraction. On the first day of the trial, Welsh requested a
                    delay on account of the severe illness (probably typhoid) that had struck his family. One day was
                    granted, but on Thursday, the trial resumed with Welsh's innocent plea and the calling of
                    the first witnesses. On Friday, the trial was interrupted by a local physician, who reported that
                        
                  
                     42 Welsh was absent from eight of eleven presbytery meetings between
                            1822 and 1825, but the presbytery usually accepted Welsh's explanations for his
                            absences. His reasons were not recorded, but Welsh had cited ill health in the past; and it
                            is likely this may have been his stated excuse again. 
                                Cincinnati
                             Presbytery, Minutes. April 9, 1822, to July 5, 1825.
                  
                     43
                            
                                Cincinnati
                             Presbytery, Minutes, April 18, 1825.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., July 5, 6, 1825.
               
                     Welsh's daughter-in-law Hester lay dying. Welsh
                    requested an indefinite delay, but the presbytery granted only a two-hour suspension for him to
                    attend to his family. Welsh, obviously agitated by the presbytery's refusal to accommodate
                    him in this crisis, initially refused to return, but after assurances that he would be given leave
                    to rush home in case of any emergency, Welsh relented and the trial resumed.45
            
            Preoccupied by his family's crisis and the imminent death of Hester, Welsh repeatedly sought
                    time to attend to his family, but the presbytery stubbornly insisted on proceeding through Saturday.
                    After Hester's death on Sunday, the presbytery allowed Welsh only a two-hour break on
                    Monday for the funeral. When testimony concluded on Wednesday of the second week, Welsh was in no
                    condition to mount a defense, but again, the presbytery rejected pleas for a further delay. Welsh
                    finally walked out of the trial and refused to return. Even this did not stop the
                    presbytery's relentless quest for a judgment. It deemed Welsh's conduct
                    contumacious and decided unanimously that the evidence substantiated all charges.46
            
            The presbytery concluded that the sin of drunkenness had been supported by several witnesses on two
                    specific occasions. Welsh's defenders focused on this charge, as it must have been
                    considered the most serious of the three, and cited the minster's advanced age and his
                    chronic afflictions as explanations for his erratic behavior. "Welsh's physical
                    inability, the inactivity of his eyes, the clumsiness of his tongue, as well as the irregularity of
                    his bodily motions," one anonymous defender wrote, "may all be accounted for upon
                    his complicated diseases which would be too tedious to explain." Welsh's physician
                    offered his diagnosis of chronic hydrothorax, which, he said, had worsened in recent weeks. Welsh
                    was thus compelled to take laxatives and other "drastic medicines," resulting in
                    anorexia, dyspepsy, and loss of appetite. The smell of whiskey on Welsh's breath, these
                    defenders suggested, was nothing more than the result of small amounts he took to relieve his
                        pain.47
            
            The presbytery was not impressed with this defnese and was no less harsh in its judgment of the other
                    two charges. Although 
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., August 10, 11, 12, 1825. The identity of the daughter-in-law is
                            uncertain. Welsh's wife Margaret bore a daughter Maria Eliza in 1807 by her first
                            husband, Dr. Samuel Venable, but Maria Eliza Venable married in 1826 and lived until 1880.
                            Welsh's daughter Hester is mentioned in a manuscript history of the 
                                Vevay
                             church, but she is not included in any of the Welsh or Patterson genealogies.
                            Julie LeClerc 
                                Knox
                            , History of the Presbyterian Church at 
                                Vevay
                            , Indiana 119601 (
                                Hanover
                             College Library, 
                                Hanover
                            , Indiana); Conover, Concerning the Forefathers,
                            422–23.
                  
                     46
                            
                                Cincinnati
                             Presbytery, Minutes, August 13, 15, 16, 17, 1825.
                  
                     47
                            Ibid., August 17, 1825; An Exposition, Relating to Some of
                                the Proceedings of the Ohio Presbytery, in Trial of the Rev. James Welsh, at 
                                    Vevay
                                , in August, 1825 (
                                Vevay
                            , Ind., 1825), 3–4, 7.
               
                     unfair dealings had not gone so far as fraud, the testimony
                    nevertheless showed "a course of conduct which is destitute of that openness, fairness, and
                    disinterestedness which the precepts of the gospel require." Finally, it judged the
                    evidence that Welsh neglected his duty as overwhelming. Perturbed by Welsh's demeanor
                    during the trial and noting the "gloomy aspect" that hung over the whole affair,
                    the presbytery showed no sympathy for Welsh's plight or recognition of his double distress.
                    The presbytery's only compassion was in inflicting the penalty of suspension, instead of
                    outright deposition, in hopes of later reconciliation.48 Unfortunately, Welsh
                    could no longer be reconciled to the vicious visicitudes of an unfriendly world, as he once
                    characterized life. Despondent over the loss of his daughter-in-law, humiliated by the trial, ill,
                    and nearly bankrupt, Welsh committed suicide little more than a year afterward.49
            
            Welsh's ordeal and tragic failure on the frontier did not stem from lack of preparation,
                    opportunities, or influential friends. Welsh had a university degree and pursued professional
                    careers in ministry and medicine, both of which were in high demand on the frontier. Offices were
                    always open to him, and even after several disastrous experiences churches never failed to call for
                    his services. The presbyteries, too, continued to place him in positions of trust and responsibility
                    despite misgivings they may have had about his reliability. In addition to all the support he could
                    reasonably expect from the Presbyterian church, Welsh also relied on friend and patron Robert
                    Patterson, who helped him obtain positions in both 
                        Lexington
                     and 
                        Dayton
                    , provided advice and counsel, and sustained his friend as best he could through
                    Welsh's life. Welsh seemed to have all that a man needed to succeed and prosper on the
                    frontier—and more.
            Welsh's difficulties stemmed from several factors: his personality and personal problems,
                    the downfall of his patron, the grim-ness of frontier conflict, and the political implications of
                    the Great Awakening. Welsh was undeniably a difficult person. He was cantankerous, intolerant, and
                    unreliable at the very least, and his haughtiness invited harsh treatment from men who had little
                    patience with him or his ideas. Welsh's rejections made him all the more resentful and
                    depressed, while his feelings of unworthiness cast a gloomy spell over his entire career. His
                    chronic ill health, overwork, and harassed life also took a heavy toll. Welsh finally turned to
                    drink and ultimate despair when living became too depressing 
                  
                     48
                            
                                Cincinnati
                             Presbytery, Minutes, August 17, 1825.
                  
                     49 Conover supplies November 10, 1826, as the date of Welsh's
                            death, but mentions nothing of the cause. Conover, Concerning the Forefathers,
                            318–19. See also Lucien V. Rule to Samuel Wilson, January 15, 1936, Unclassified
                            Manuscripts (Presbyterian Historical Society).
               
                     and burdensome. Welsh's temperament made it likely
                    that he would have had difficulty wherever he lived, but the frontier may have magnified his
                    problems.
            Patterson's influence and connections undoubtedly helped Welsh gain his university post and
                    pulpits. Even in half-formed frontier society, family and friendship ties counted for a great deal.
                    Welsh made the right connections, and they worked to his advantage early in his career; but his
                    relationship to Patterson went beyond the usual ties of patronage and friendship. Welsh also relied
                    on his father-in-law for emotional support, and this dependency made Welsh dangerously vulnerable.
                    When Patterson lost his status and influence in 
                        Dayton
                     and withdrew from church and society, Welsh suffered a doubly devastating loss. He
                    could no longer depend on Patterson's stature to help build the 
                        Dayton
                     church, and Patterson's downfall also left Welsh with little protection from
                    his friend's powerful enemies. Welsh's fortunes were too closely identified with
                    his patron's, and when Patterson fell, Welsh was unable to loosen the bonds that tied them
                    together.
            Frontier society was also harsh and unforgiving, perhaps even cruel at times. It was certainly no
                    egalitarian meritocracy, where talent, experience, and hard work would guarantee reward. A
                    man's politics, religion, origins, and connections played as much a role in his ultimate
                    success as how hard he worked, and Welsh was certainly aware of these factors. Indeed, as a minister
                    and natural leader, he was inescapably drawn into the very center of political conflict. In each
                    place that Welsh sought to make home, religious issues had distinct social and political
                    implications; in each place there were ambitious men with their own agendas, little social
                    hierarchies in the making, and keen competition for office and leadership. This was true in 
                        Lexington
                    , where the popular majority held distinctly liberal religious and political views quite
                    opposed to those held by Welsh, and in 
                        Dayton
                    , where a Jerseyite clique gained virtual control over the church and all facets of
                    social and political life. Both groups excluded Welsh and men like him who stood in their way.
            Although Welsh lacked the skills and flexibility needed to thrive amidst the conflict that was rife
                    on the frontier, the Great Awakening itself exacerbated both the nature of that conflict and
                    Welsh's troubles. The Calvinist orthodoxy of the Presbyterian church and the bleak social
                    and political precepts of a Calvinist world view were under attack by awakened evangelicals. The
                    preaching of the Great Awakening placed greater emphasis on spiritual rebirth, the ability to affect
                    one's own salvation, and the possibilities of perfecting this world. The social and
                    political implications of these and other liberating evangelical notions provided some with new
                    opportunities on the frontier, but they also raised havoc in a society that had no firm foundations.
                    Good men and  women disagreed about how best to carry out the
                    evangelical prescriptions for social salvation and fought over leadership of frontier communities,
                    but Welsh and others who held on to a dying orthodoxy had little to offer this new social order.
                    Welsh may have failed his mission on the frontier, but the social and political turmoil that
                    followed closely in the wake of the Great Awakening provided the special context that made his
                    success nearly impossible.
         
         
         
            Confusion, Controversy, and Quarantine: The 
                        Muncie
                     Smallpox Epidemic of 1893
            William G. Eidson∗
            
            When a contagious disease appears in a populated area, governing officials, health agents, and
                    concerned citizens need to move in harmony toward eradicating the unwelcomed pestilence. If all work
                    in symphony and the leadership not only knows what to do but is courageous enough to do what needs
                    to be done, then the contagion can usually be stopped before it becomes a serious epidemic. When,
                    however, there is dissension—when one group ignores or repudiates
                    another—trouble emerges.
            Such was the situation in 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, with the outbreak of smallpox during the fall of 1893. The medical community
                    disagreed on the nature of the affliction, local citizens ignored sensible precautions and thus
                    encouraged the spread of the malady, and city councilmen, who took quick and decisive steps on some
                    issues, refused for several weeks to enact a controversial measure necessary to prevent the spread
                    of this deadly disease.
            The history of the 
                        Muncie
                     epidemic began Thursday, August 17, 1893. It was such a beautiful day that a
                    record-breaking crowd of ten thousand spectators attended the 
                        Delaware County
                     Fair. They watched five exciting horse races, saw "Professor" Baldwin
                    parachute from his balloon four thousand feet in the air, and provided ample opportunities for a
                    number of pickpockets who infested the fairgrounds. Young Dr. Frank G. Jackson, however, was not
                    among the happy fairgoers. Instead he was in his medical office, one to which he had moved only a
                    week before, when notified of an illness that needed investigation in the southeast section of 
                        Muncie
                    . At thirty-four years of age, 
                        Jackson
                     was the city's first health officer and as such was paid $400 for
                    the part-time position. Little did this 
                        Muncie
                     native realize as he began his trek across 
                  
                     ∗ William G. Eidson is associate dean, College of Sciences
                            and Humanities, and professor of history, Ball State University, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana. It was while working on a history of 
                                Muncie
                            's First Baptist Church that he became interested in the smallpox
                            epidemic.
               
                     the railroad tracks on Thursday evening that what he found
                    there would consume nearly all his waking hours for the next three months and would be described by
                    him as the "most severe outbreak of small-pox this state has ever seen."1
            
            
               
                        Jackson
                     called on the Thomas 
                        Murray
                     family living on 
                        Macedonia
                     Avenue. There he found one person ill and five others who had been sick with what Dr.
                    Robert A. Bunch had diagnosed as chicken pox. Although he had been practicing medicine for less than
                    four years, 
                        Jackson
                     was suspicious of that diagnosis because of the high fever and skin eruptions. Upon
                    further inquiry 
                        Jackson
                     learned that other people with similar symptoms were said to live in the vicinity. The
                    next day, 
                        Jackson
                     and Dr. Garrett Leech, who had been in charge of a smallpox epidemic in 
                        Muncie
                     in 1876, carefully inspected other homes in the neighborhood and found five other
                    families with the disease. Despite the fact that there had been no smallpox in 
                        Muncie
                     for several years, Leech agreed with 
                        Jackson
                    's smallpox diagnosis. Yet before unnecessarily alarming people, 
                        Jackson
                     telegraphed the secretary of the Indiana State Board of Health, Dr. Charles N. Metcalf,
                    who on the following day rushed to 
                        Muncie
                     from 
                        Indianapolis
                     and confirmed both doctors' suspicions. These patients had smallpox.2
            
            On Saturday afternoon, August 19, 
                        Jackson
                     met with the city council and announced that the city had a potential smallpox epidemic
                    on its hands. Before these astonished men, the young physician traced the development in 
                        Muncie
                     of this most feared malady. The disease was apparently brought to the city by a young
                    lady from 
                        New Jersey
                     who visited the family of Richard Dilks in April. From this young woman the daughter of
                    Patrick Malloy contracted the disease but had such mild symptoms that she was even able to attend
                    Elaine School with blisters on her face. Sitting next to her in class was the eight-year-old
                    daughter of Thomas 
                        Murray
                    . The 
                        Murray
                     girl soon became ill and on May 10 was taken by her mother to Dr. Bunch, who found a
                    dozen pox or blisters on her body, diagnosed her illness as chicken pox, gave her some medicine, and
                    approved her plans to visit relatives in 
                  Covington,
                            Kentucky
               , for the summer. Although
                    misdiagnosed, it was the first incident of smallpox brought to the attention of a local
                        physician.3
            
            
               
                  1
                        
                            Muncie
                        
                        Daily Herald, August 17, 18, November 2, 1893; 
                            Muncie
                        
                        Daily News, August 18, 1893; 
                            Muncie
                        
                        Daily Times, September 9, 1893; Frank D. Haimbaugh, ed., History
                            of 
                                Delaware County
                            , Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1924), II, 481; Indiana, Twelfth Annual Report of the Indiana State
                            Board of Health (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1893), 178, 186, hereafter cited as State Report; Dr. Hugh Cowing Scrapbook, pp.
                        10, 20 (Special Collections, Bracken Library, Ball State University, 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana).
               
                  2 Cowing Scrapbook, 10, 11, 20; State Report. 140. For information
                        concerning the 1876 outbreak, see 
                            Muncie
                        
                        News, June 18-July 26, 1876.
               
                  3
                        
                            Muncie
                        
                        Weekly Times, September 14, 1893, in Cowing Scrapbook, 20; 
                            Muncie
                        
                        Daily Times, August 21, 25, 1893.
            
            
            
               SMALLPOX VICTIM 22 YEARS OLD
               
               Reproduced from Indiana. Twelfth Annual Report of the Indiana State Board of
                        Health (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1893), 178.
            
            Ten days later Bunch visited the 
                        Murray
                     home to see another daughter, a four-year-old whose temperature was 100 degrees and who
                    had eruptions over her face, neck, and limbs. Bunch visited the girl again the next day on May 20
                    and concluded that she, too, had chicken pox. On July 5, Bunch was summoned to the home of Mrs.
                    Edward Fox, who lived next to the Murrays on 
                        Macedonia
                    . The Fox girl had convulsions and a temperature of 102, but no eruptions until the next
                    day, when her face, neck, and limbs broke out. Once again the 
                        Muncie
                     physician said the ailment was chicken pox. He also diagnosed as chicken pox the
                    illness of an older Fox daughter with similar symptoms. Five weeks later, on August 15, Bunch paid a
                    visit to A. N. Shuttleworth's daughter who had a fever of 105 and numerous eruptions over
                    her body. It was at this point that Bunch decided he should notify the health 
                    
                  Reproduced from Indiana. Twelfth Annual Report of the Indiana State Board of
                                Health (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1893), 103.
               
                     authorities of a possible contagious disease in the city,
                    although he still believed the disease was chicken pox.4
            
            By the time 
                        Jackson
                     was notified, there were fourteen people suffering from smallpox in six different
                    families. The 
                        Murray
                     family had five cases with the disease, and the Fox family next door also had five.
                    Three other families with the illness lived in close proximity to these homes; only one family, that
                    of A. J. Campbell, did not live close by. The Campbells lived in Avondale, several blocks away.5 What 
                        Jackson
                     recommended after his investigation and diagnosis, and what the city council agreed to
                    do that August afternoon and at a subsequent meeting two days later, was to quarantine each infected
                    house, an act then known as domiciliary quarantine—to restrict a family to its home.
                    Yellow cardboard signs reading "Smallpox" were posted on contaminated houses, and
                    guards who had already had smallpox or had been vaccinated recently were stationed near the property
                    to prevent people from entering the house and to keep secluded family members from leaving the
                        premises.6
            
            Except for the Campbells, all of the infected families lived in an area bounded by Willard Street on
                    the north, 
                        Macedonia
                     Avenue on the east, Ohmer (now Memorial Drive) on the south, and Walnut Street on the
                    west. The area was eight blocks wide from north to south and sixteen blocks long from east to west.
                    To warn individuals that smallpox might be in the area, red flags were erected at these boundaries,
                    although the area itself was not cordoned off, only the infected houses.7
            
            Eventually the city council took elaborate precautions in an attempt to prevent the spread of the
                    disease. The city provided groceries and other necessities for the quarantined families but
                    delivered them only to a safe distance from a contaminated house. From there the guards picked up
                    the provisions and carried them to the proper yard; when the guards were at a safe distance, a
                    member of the family came into the yard and took the goods into the house. Milk was poured into a
                    special pitcher, but the deliverer never touched the pitcher. Afterward a member of the family came
                    outside to get the milk. A guard at each house had a water bucket, likewise never touched by
                    infected persons, from which he poured water into another bucket left outside the house. When a
                    doctor entered a house where smallpox was present, he wore a rubber coat 
                  
                     4
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Times, August 21, 1893.
                  
                     5 Cowing Scrapbook, 10–11.
                  
                     6
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Herald, August 21, 1893; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning News, August 25, 1893; Cowing Scrapbook, 11.
                  
                     7
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning News, August 25, 1893; 
                                Delaware County
                             Plat Book 2, Map 56, 1887 Plat Map of Galliher Subdivision, 
                                Muncie
                             (Special Collections, Bracken Library).
               
                     that came down to his feet, rubber boots that came up to his
                    hips, and a rubber cap that fit closely over his head, leaving only his hands and a small portion of
                    his face exposed. Upon entering the premises, he put on the rubber suit and upon leaving the house
                    removed it and washed his hands and face in a solution of disinfectants. To show how serious
                    officials were to prevent the disease from spreading, they ordered all dogs and cats without tags
                    found running at large in the infected district to be killed.8
            
            Even though the guards should have been unable to contract the disease, precautions were taken to
                    keep them from spreading it. Because they spent so many hours in the diseased area, it was thought
                    best that they remain in the district during their off hours. Thus a house was established in the
                    area where they could stay and sleep when not on duty. This house also had provisions for
                    incarcerating persons who disobeyed the quarantine laws, and at least two people were held there for
                    such violations before the epidemic passed.9
            
            At the same time that the city council ordered a cordoning off of all infected houses, it also agreed
                    that as many people as possible should be vaccinated. Residents outside the contaminated area were
                    urged to get vaccinations; people living inside the diseased district were required to be
                    vaccinated. The council appointed five physicians to go throughout the infected area to give
                    vaccinations to as many people as possible and to do so as quickly as possible. Although residents
                    were charged fifty cents per vaccination, if an individual could not afford that amount, the city
                    would pay for the injection at the reduced rate of twenty-five cents.10
            
            Despite these precautions the first announcements of smallpox in the city created very little
                    excitement or interest. People were slow to believe that the disease was really smallpox. Prominent
                    in the group of disbelievers were a number of physicians, including Bunch, who maintained publicly
                    that the disease was chicken pox, not smallpox, and that both city officials and 
                        Jackson
                     had overreacted. Furthermore, one of the daily newspapers and some of the confined
                    families doctored by Bunch shared skepticism about the presence of smallpox. These families resented
                    the actions of the health officers, refused to be vaccinated, complained loudly about being isolated
                    from other people, and defied the efforts at quarantine. The fact that from August 19 to August 25
                    there were no new cases of smallpox or chicken pox added credence to this argument.11
            
            
               
                  8
                        
                            Muncie
                        
                        Daily Times, August 24, 1893; 
                            Muncie
                        
                        Weekly Times, September 14, 1893, in Cowing Scrapbook, 20; Cowing Scrapbook,
                        33.
               
                  9
                        
                            Muncie
                        
                        Daily Times, August 24, 1893; Cowing Scrapbook, 17, 39.
               
                  10
                        
                            Muncie
                        
                        Daily Herald, August 22, 1893; 
                            Muncie
                         Morning News, August 25, 1893; 
                            Muncie
                        
                        Daily Times, August 22, 1893.
               
                  11
                        
                            Muncie
                        
                        Daily Times, August 21, 1893; 
                            Muncie
                        
                        Morning News, August 23, 1893; State Report, 179; Cowing Scrapbook, 20.
            
            
            It is not surprising, then, that there were many violations of the quarantine by people already
                    living inside the infected district. There were numerous instances when family members exited the
                    rear of a house to visit neighbors or when friends came to visit via the back door, all while a
                    guard patrolled the front. Violations became so frequent that guards were eventually given authority
                    to arrest people who disregarded the regulations. The effectiveness of the quarantine was also
                    weakened when garbage collectors refused to collect trash and waste of families with smallpox.
                    Although officials had ordered that all such waste be well covered with chloride of lime and then
                    buried, the garbage remained outside the infected houses for days while the wind blew its
                    contamination to nearby homes.12
            
            Physicians and public officials quickly learned that fighting smallpox was not the only battle they
                    would wage in 
                        Muncie
                     that fall. Nearly as time consuming and infinitely more frustrating was the struggle to
                    convince the public that a serious disease was present and that certain precautions must be followed
                    to prevent it from spreading throughout the whole community. County health officer Hugh Cowing
                    commented that at the beginning of the epidemic public and health officials had to fight not only
                    the disease but also "the surroundings and the people."13
            
            In an attempt to remove distrust and to settle, if possible, the controversy over the diagnosis,
                    Mayor Arthur Brady and the 
                        Muncie City
                     Council employed well-known 
                        Indianapolis
                     physician, Dr. Henry Jamison, to examine the cases and give his opinion. Jamison
                    arrived August 21, examined the afflicted, and in every case confirmed that the patients had
                    smallpox. Meeting with the city council that evening, Jamison emphatically stated that if the
                    disease were not eradicated before winter, it would become much worse. He then advised the absolute
                    quarantine of all infected and exposed persons and urged city leaders to establish a hospital or
                    pest house for those already afflicted.14
            
            The next evening the city council, the newly created Committee on Public Safety, and interested
                    physicians gathered. Despite Jamison's strong recommendation, those at the meeting agreed
                    not to open a pest house. Although most of those present knew that a pest house was needed, they
                    admitted that since many in the city believed there was no smallpox in the community, the removal of
                    the afflicted to a hospital would be next to impossible. Until public opinion supported the
                    physicians, there would be no hospital. This refusal notwithstanding, one must be careful in
                    criticizing city 
                  
                     12
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Times, August 24, October 4, 1893; Cowing Scrapbook, 24.
                  
                     13 State Report, 358.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 92, 105; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Times, August 22, 1893; Cowing Scrapbook, 12.
               
                    
                    
                  DR. HUGH COWING
                  
                  DR. R. A. BUNCH
                  
                  Courtesy Bracken Library, Ball State University, 
                                Muncie
                            .
                leaders. Eight years before, in 1885, 
                        Montreal
                     officials enforced vaccination regulations and compelled the removal of smallpox
                    victims to isolation hospitals. Riots then erupted when citizens refused to go to the hospitals, and
                    eventually troops were summoned to bring peace and order to the community. 
                        Muncie
                     leaders certainly wanted to avoid any similar trouble.15
            
            Although Jamison's verification helped to persuade some doubters that there was smallpox in
                    the city, many still remained skeptical. In an effort to learn the truth and dissolve any
                    misunderstanding, other physicians unofficially visited 
                        Muncie
                     and examined the patients. Dr. L. E. Russell, chief surgeon in a 
                  Springfield, Ohio
               , hospital, did not help matters when he examined several cases two days
                    after Jamison's visit. Russell declared all the patients had smallpox except the 
                        Murray
                     family, which, he maintained, had chicken pox. Two days later Dr. N. B. Kerr, an
                    eminent 
                        New York
                     physician, stopped in 
                        Muncie
                     on his way home from the West. At one time Kerr had been sent to the Northwest by the
                    government to take charge of an infected smallpox district where he eventually treated over seven
                    hundred cases. Kerr received permission 
                  
                     15 State Report, 107, 358; Donald R. Hopkins, Princes and
                                Peasants: Smallpox in History (
                                Chicago
                            , 1983), 285.
               
                     to visit several 
                        Muncie
                     patients and stated that all had smallpox, including the questionable cases in the 
                        Murray
                     family. By the time he examined the patients, he said the marks were plainly visible
                    and there could be no doubt about the disease.16
            
            While physicians disagreed about what disease was present in 
                        Muncie
                    , they did agree that diagnosis of smallpox was not always easily made. A mild case of
                    smallpox and a severe case of chicken pox, for a day or so, may puzzle even an experienced
                    physician. Cowing acknowledged that a number of cases in 
                        Muncie
                     were atypical in their slight rise of temperature, in their delay of the eruptions, and
                    in their presence of complications. An editorial in the October 7, 1893, issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association stated the problem succintly: "It is
                    simply impossible always in the early stages to differentiate these diseases [smallpox and chicken
                        pox]."17
            
            The pronouncements of prominent physicians from outside 
                        Muncie
                    , however, helped to convince a number of citizens that smallpox was indeed in the city.
                    Even more convincing was the outbreak of several new cases of the disease. During the last few days
                    of August and the first week of September dozens of new cases were reported, at which time Emily
                    Russell's sixteen-year-old daughter, Mary Emma, died. The fact that several of the new
                    victims lived outside the infested district was particularly alarming. Obviously the disease was not
                    being restricted to a small area as had been hoped.18
            
            As a result, the State Board of Health declared a quarantine in the city on September 7. In order to
                    prevent the epidemic from becoming worse, 
                        Muncie
                     citizens were asked to observe the following precautions until further notice:
                        
                     No public meeting of any sort should be held. No exercises should be held at any
                                church, lodge, opera house, ball ground, or any place (including school when it was to
                                open) of like character.
                     The people generally should remain at their homes as much as possible. Congregations
                                of persons on the streets should be avoided. The police were directed to see that no
                                crowds collected on the street. Loitering or loafing would subject parties to arrest.
                     Special care should be taken to keep at a good distance from the infected houses. No
                                communication should be had with persons infected or in danger of infection.
                     Everybody should be vaccinated, whether vaccinated in the past few years or not.19
                     
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     16
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Times, August 26, 1893; Cowing Scrapbook, 15.
                  
                     17 Quoted in State Report, 140.
                  
                     18 Cowing Scrapbook, 13, 16; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning News, September 7, 1893; State Report, 152.
                  
                     19
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning News, September 7, 1893; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Herald, September 7, 1893. County commissioners soon agreed to
                            enlarge restrictions to 
                                Delaware County
                            . On September 9, two days after the 
                                Muncie
                             edict, they announced that because of smallpox in 
                                Muncie
                            , "We deem it best that all public meetings, church services and Sunday
                            Schools throughout the county be discontinued for the present, and we hereby order that the
                            public schools of 
                                Delaware County
                             shall not begin until further notice from us." State Report,
                        110.
               
                    
                    
                  SMALLPOX VICTIM 13 YEARS OLD
                  
                  Reproduced from Indiana, Twelfth Annual Report of the Indiana State Board of
                                Health (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1893), 181.
               
                     This quarantine meant that as long as there was danger of an
                    epidemic in 
                        Muncie
                     there would be no church services, programs, or school. In addition, however, the board
                    of health's decree also warned people living outside the city that they entered 
                        Muncie
                     at possible risk to their health. Naturally such a warning drastically reduced the
                    number of nearby farmers and neighboring small-town residents who came to 
                        Muncie
                     for business.
            The quarantine also carried with it restrictions on the free travel of 
                        Muncie
                     residents. Anyone who wished to leave the city by rail was required to obtain a
                    certificate from a health official saying that he or she had been properly vaccinated and was free
                    from infection. The ticket agent at the train station was forbidden to sell anyone a ticket without
                    first seeing such a certificate. In addition, all baggage of people leaving the city by train had to
                    be disinfected, which required so much time and attention that a special boxcar was set aside
                    strictly for fumigation purposes; train officials urged passengers to get their luggage to the
                    station several hours in advance of departure so there would be no delay. There was, of course, a
                    charge for this special service. Each fumigated bag cost from fifteen to fifty cents depending on
                        size.20
            
            Additional efforts to keep the disease from spreading included suspension of library privileges and
                    burning of all books returned from the infected area. Furthermore, moving household goods from one
                    part of the city to another was not permitted, except on written permit of the health officer. All
                    public places were disinfected at city expense. Even the post office was told to fumigate every
                    piece of mail sent out from the city; all mail leaving the city was placed in a large sheet-iron box
                    four-feet square and six-feet high where it was fumigated for about an hour.21
            
            On the same evening that the quarantine was issued, a citizens' meeting discussed the
                    epidemic and what might be done by citizens to assist in the disease's elimination. The
                    large attendance and the interest displayed indicated that the public finally realized that such a
                    serious matter could no longer be treated with indifference. The point was raised that taking
                    smallpox patients to a special hospital would be far better than the current method of domiciliary
                    quarantine. The arguments of 
                        Jackson
                     and others were so convincing that a motion was made by one of the citizens to develop
                    at once a smallpox hospital and to investigate further what authority was needed to remove infected
                    persons to a hospital. The 
                  
                     20
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Times, September 12, 13, 1893; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning News, September 10, 1893.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Times, August 22, September 13, 1893; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning News, September 7, 1893; State Report, 115, 180.
               
                     motion evoked considerable discussion and strong opposition but
                    was eventually passed.22
            
            Previously the city council had declined to establish such a hospital because of insufficient public
                    support. Now with a citizens' group resolution, the council responded quickly and within
                    four days authorized the establishment of a smallpox hospital in the infected area. Health officials
                    hastily obtained the use of a large, two-story building at the corner of Ohmer (Memorial Drive) and
                    Heekin (Beacon Street), just south of Galliher Woods (present-day Heekin Park), at the extreme
                    southeastern corner of the city. The building had been erected for a hotel (Wise Hotel) and had
                    fifteen large rooms. The authorities decided that as soon as new cases of smallpox developed, the
                    patients would be promptly removed to the hospital where they could be cared for properly. Such a
                    facility would also reduce the possibility of spreading the disease; as soon as the diseased person
                    was discovered, he or she would be removed to the hospital, and the residence would be thoroughly
                        disinfected.23 Besides giving the patients better care and reducing the
                    possibility of spreading the disease, another advantage of the hospital was that it reduced the
                    necessary number of guards. Before the council decided to transfer smallpox victims to a hospital,
                    the city was employing as many as 150 to guard infected houses, which was an enormous expense.24
            
            Although guards were no longer needed, the city had to employ nurses at the hospital as well as
                    doctors, disinfectors, and cooks. Father William Schmidt of St. Lawrence Catholic Church, for
                    instance, contacted the Sisters of Charity in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and arranged for two nuns to be sent to 
                        Muncie
                     where they could minister as nurses in the hospital. Both had considerable experience
                    working with smallpox patients and would prove to be of tremendous assistance.25
            
            Because the city council had anticipated that some people might not willingly or easily go to the
                    hospital, it passed an ordinance directing authorized personnel to remove all smallpox patients to
                    the hospital and empowering such officials to "use all necessary means, including force and
                    the breaking of doors if required, to compel the removal of all persons having smallpox."
                    The 
                  
                     22 State Report, 113–14.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Herald, September 7, 1893; State Report, 111, 113, 114, 117; Cowing
                            Scrapbook, 16.
                  
                     24 State Report, 358; Cowing Scrapbook, 16, 22; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning News, September 16, 1893.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning News, September 16, 1893; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Times, September 15, 1893; Cowing Scrapbook, 44. Both nuns later
                            stated that there was no question in their minds that the patients in the hospital were in
                            fact suffering from smallpox, and they expressed astonishment that anyone in the medical
                            community had questioned the diagnosis.
               
                     publication of this ordinance brought a storm of protest from
                    the community and a belief among lawyers that the ordinance was probably unconstitutional. As a
                    result, no public official would issue a warrant for such forced entrance, and police refused to
                    make forcible entrance without a warrant; in short, once smallpox was believed to be in a home,
                    health authorities could not compel a family to submit to an inspection of their premises. As it
                    turned out, health officials in 
                        Muncie
                     seemed less concerned about a family's rights than about preventing the spread
                    of smallpox. 
                        Jackson
                     admitted later in cases where a family known to have smallpox refused admittance,
                    physicians sometimes took the law into their own hands and forced their way into the home as if
                    martial law were in effect.26
            
            Later 
                        Jackson
                     commented about the problems associated with persuading patients to leave the comforts
                    of their home for the hospital. "Of all the difficult and arduous labor time, none was so
                    difficult or arduous as this," the health officer wrote, claiming that he had spent many
                    hours, as many as eight in one situation, in rooms loaded with pestilence and stench trying to
                    convince patients to go to the hospital. If health officers were unsuccessful, friends of patients
                    were sent to influence the family. One friend, who went kindly to reason with a family, told members
                    how they would get along much better at a hospital. The family responded by throwing rocks at the
                    friend until he was finally forced away. Sometimes drivers went five or six times to pick up a
                    patient only to be met with stubborn resistance, occasionally even with a shotgun's muzzle.
                    In one instance, an irate father fired his gun and wounded a man who had come to take his diseased
                    child to the hospital. In another situation a family with several infected members repeatedly
                    refused to allow any of the family to be removed to the hospital. Eventually health authorities
                    decided to starve out the family in order to force them to go to the hospital (although would-be
                    friends slipped in provisions anyway). Despite these trials, 
                        Jackson
                     maintained that all but one patient who was supposed to go to a hospital eventually
                    went, although the delay in removing those in some homes caused others in the family to contract the
                    disease and continuing the spread of the epidemic. In the one unsuccessful case, health officers
                    were met at the door by a young man with a shotgun and told they would not be allowed to remove his
                    father. Although the officials pleaded with the young man, they were unable to change his mind, and
                    the middle-aged father was not removed from the home until he died a few days later.27
            
            Although some resistance remained, public opinion toward the hospital eventually changed. Health
                    officials and the Committee 
                  
                     26 State Report, 117, 181, 185.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 113, 114, 179, 359, 360.
               
                     on Public Safety made numerous appeals in newspapers and at
                    public meetings to convince the public that smallpox patients should be taken to the hospital.
                    Significant in changing the public's opinion was the action of Frances L. Budd, wife of a
                    prominent dentist in the city. She came to the health officer, reported that her twelve-year-old son
                    had smallpox, and specifically requested that he be taken to the hospital. Her action was followed
                    by other citizens, and afterward it was much easier to secure the consent of patients and relatives.
                    In order to induce patients to go, permission had previously been given for members of the family to
                    go with the patient and see that proper care and attention were given, but as people gained
                    confidence in the treatment their loved ones would receive in the hospital, fewer and fewer family
                    members felt it necessary to accompany the patient to the hospital.28
            
            As the epidemic continued to spread, however, officials soon realized that one hospital could not
                    hold all the smallpox patients. As a result, the city council was persuaded to construct a second
                    hospital. The 
                        Muncie
                     Land Company donated some land four blocks southeast of the first hospital and just
                    south of the crossing of Ohmer (Memorial Drive) and 
                        Macedonia
                     Avenue. Working rapidly, contractor D. C. Mitchell completed a structure 118 feet long
                    and 18 feet wide before the end of September. Divided into a women's wing, men's
                    wing, dining room, kitchen, and office, the new hospital had a capacity of approximately forty
                    patients. The first hospital could house twenty-four and was at capacity by the time the second
                    building was completed. Soon after, city officials abolished domiciliary quarantine, and by October
                    8 all infected patients were removed to one of the hospitals.29
            
            The decision to place all patients in hospitals was certainly wise; domiciliary quarantine simply had
                    proven ineffective. The disease was in a thickly settled area in which the majority of the people
                    were either indifferent to the seriousness of the disease or were strongly opposed to vaccination.
                    To defy the authorities, some quarantined people took bundles of rags from infested homes and threw
                    them into backyards of other homes, thus spreading the disease. In many cases residents refused to
                    be vaccinated or lied to health officials about the presence of smallpox in their homes. Months
                    later, Cowing expressed the feeling of most health officials when he concluded that "house
                    quarantine was an utter failure."30
            
            While people in 
                        Muncie
                     did not panic over the quarantine and the operation of two smallpox hospitals, they
                    were considerably confused and fearful of other aspects of the disease. For one thing 
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., 182, 359.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Times, September 20, 1893; State Report, 118, 181; Cowing Scrapbook,
                            33–34.
                  
                     30 State Report, 105, 358–60; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Times, September 5, 1893.
               
                    
                    
                  SMALLPOX HOSPITAL No. 1, MUNCIE,
                                INDIANA
                  
               
                    
                  SMALLPOX HOSPITAL No. 2, MUNCIE,
                                INDIANA
                  
                  Reproduced from Indiana, Twelfth Annual Report of the Indiana State Board of
                                Health (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1893), 112, 166.
               
                     they were unsure of how the disease was spread. They had been
                    told that the disease could be acquired only by direct contact with persons who had smallpox or by
                    contact with articles touched by those who were sick, hence the importance of avoiding crowds or the
                    infected section of the city. State board of health secretary Metcalf was quoted in a 
                        Muncie
                     newspaper saying that a person could safely go into an infected house as long as one
                    did not touch the body, clothing, or bedding of the diseased person. On the other hand 
                        Muncie
                     residents could read that the disease could be transferred by air and not strictly by
                    touch. An unidentified local physician emphasized the point in a letter to a newspaper in which he
                    claimed that one could get the disease by merely breathing the air near a smallpox patient. He
                    further claimed that the air could retain the germs for years if conditions were right. Residents
                    naturally wondered that if the only way one could contract the disease was by direct contact, then
                    why all the precautions in 
                        Muncie
                    ? If a person had never visited the infested district and had not been in the presence
                    of anyone who had, why must one's luggage be disinfected? Why fumigate the mail of such a
                    person? Despite whatever information one believed about the spread of the disease, those outside the
                    infected area were always strongly opposed to people who had spent considerable time in the diseased
                    district coming "uptown." No matter how thoroughly those living in the
                    southeastern part of town were disinfected, many of the citizens expressed strong alarm at a trip
                    out of the infested area.31
            
            Not only were people confused about how the disease was spread, they were also perplexed by the
                    existence of differing schools of physicians. In Indiana the four schools having the largest number
                    of practitioners were homeopathic, eclectic, physiomedical, and allopathic (regulars). 
                        Muncie
                     had all four of these schools represented among its physicians. All of these people
                    were considered physicians, and each school had its own medical colleges, although curriculum and
                    academic standards varied widely. Concern among the citizens of Indiana that some physicians were
                    not properly trained led the state general assembly in 1885 to make it unlawful for any person to
                    practice medicine in the state without obtaining a license. But the license was granted simply upon
                    presentation of a diploma from a "reputable" medical school or upon proof of the
                    candidates' having practiced medicine in the state for a certain period of time: ten years
                    for those with no special education, three years for those with one full course of medical
                        lectures.32
                    
                  
                     31
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning News, August 25, 1893; Cowing Scrapbook, 11, 26; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Weekly Times, September 14, 1893, in Cowing Scrapbook, 20; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Herald, August 31, 1893.
                  
                     32 Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The
                                Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth, 1880–1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 472–73.
               
                     From the beginning and throughout the epidemic a number of 
                        Muncie
                     physicians, particularly those affiliated with the Indiana Anti-Vaccination Society,
                    insisted that there was no smallpox in the city. 
                        Muncie
                     physicians such as Andrew R. Mock, Lewis Payton, John C. Ross, A#2 C. Jones, and Bunch
                    all belonged to the society. None of these men was a regular (allopathic) physician, and all
                    maintained that vaccination was not only worthless but potentially dangerous. The way to reduce
                    smallpox, members claimed, was not by vaccination but by better urban sanitation. Obviously these
                    doctors refused to give their patients vaccinations during the epidemic. However, sometimes they
                    would issue their patients a certificate of health verifying that they had been vaccinated when in
                    reality they had not. As a result, city officials eventually rejected all certificates of
                    vaccination issued by these physicians.33
            
            When the local school board decided that no child would be allowed to enter school without a proper
                    vaccination, Mock refused to have his children vaccinated and insisted that they be admitted to
                    their schools. The Anti-Vaccination Society then asked for a court order restraining the school
                    authorities from such action, maintaining that medical compulsion, like religious compulsion, was
                    un-American. Although the case was not decided until the next year, a 
                        Terre Haute
                     judge eventually ruled that the board of health had the authority to require all pupils
                    to be vaccinated if there had been exposure to smallpox, and that the presence of the disease in 
                        Muncie
                     was sufficient exposure to warrant issuing the order by the board.34
            
            The debate over vaccination also caused some confusion for 
                        Muncie
                     residents. Nevertheless, the physicians in charge all agreed that vaccination was a
                    proper and needed precaution, and hence were able to convince city officials that the populace
                    should be inoculated. As a result approximately 10,000 residents out of a total population of 22,000
                    were vaccinated.35
            
            The schism among 
                        Muncie
                     physicians was much more serious than merely the issue of vaccination. Drs. Bunch, 
                        Jackson
                    , and Cowing had all attended medical school in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and the latter was a graduate of Miami Medical College. 
                        Jackson
                     attended Ohio Medical School, although he eventually graduated from 
                        Louisville
                    
                    
                  
                     33
                            Emerson's 
                                    Muncie
                                 Directory, 1893 (
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., 1893), 647; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Herald, September 23, November 13, 22, 1893; 
                        
                                    Muncie
                                 Morning News, August 23, 1893; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Times, August 22, October 6, 1893; Cowing Scrapbook, 27, 33, 46, 49;
                            Allan Chase, Magic Shots: A Human and Scientific Account of the Long and
                                Continuing Struggle to Eradicate Infectious Diseases by Vaccination (
                                New York
                            , 1982), 72.
                  
                     34
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Herald, September 26, November 13, 1893; Chase, Magic
                                Shots, 72; Cowing Scrapbook, 49.
                  
                     35 Dick 
                                Greene
                            , "Our Neighborhood," 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Star, August 11, 1980.
               
                     Medical School, both of which were regular medical schools
                    producing physicians in the mainstream of the profession. Bunch, however, graduated from Eclectic
                    Medical Institute in 
                        Cincinnati
                    .36
            
            Along with homeopaths, eclectics made up the two principal medical sects in America during the late
                    nineteenth century. Doctors in the eclectic school did not use the powerful mineral remedies of the
                    day but relied instead on the use of plants and herbs for their remedies, though as their name
                    implies they professed to take the best from various schools. They carried on a vigorous campaign
                    against what they claimed was the excessive drugging and bleeding done by the regular profession.
                    Although graduates of eclectic schools (there were nine in the 
                        United States
                     in 1890) were authentic M.D.s, they were often called botanical doctors because of
                    their reliance on plants. Others called them quacks, but many Americans liked the fact that these
                    doctors used "natural" remedies and thus seemed close to nature.37
            
            Bunch was not only a graduate of one of these eclectic schools, he was also active in both the state
                    and national eclectic societies. In fact, at one time he had been president of the state group in
                    Indiana. He was also one of ten eclectic physicians in 
                        Delaware County
                     in 1893: five in 
                        Muncie
                    , four in 
                        Albany
                    , and one in Gas-ton. In comparison, there were forty-seven regular doctors, eight
                    homeopaths, and eight physio-medicals living in 
                        Delaware County
                    .38
            
            Regular physicians such as 
                        Jackson
                    , Cowing, and Leech had little regard for eclectics. For one thing, none of the
                    eclectics practicing in the city aided the medical efforts to eradicate smallpox. Some of the
                    homeopaths and physio-medicals did help, especially Dr. John Quick, a physio-medical practitioner.
                    Then, too, eclectics regarded themselves as medical reformers dedicated to correcting problems
                    created by others in the medical profession. That attitude certainly did not endear them to the
                    regular physicians. Finally, the social class of eclectics was usually low, certainly lower than
                    that of regular physicians or homeopaths. One reason for this low social status, although surely not
                    the only reason, was that their patients came almost exclusively from the working classes. The most
                    popular of the eclectics in 
                        Muncie
                     was Bunch, whose practice was quite extensive and who was known as the poor
                    man's friend. But Bunch's large practice and nickname did not impress Cowing.
                    After Bunch finally admitted that one of the ill patients might be 
                  
                     36 General William Harrison Kemper, ed., A Twentieth
                                Century History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1908), II, 632, 635, 699.
                  
                     37 Paul Starr, The Social Transformation of American
                                Medicine (
                                New York
                            , 1982), 96, 99; Stewart H. Holbrook, The Golden Age of
                            Quackery (
                                New York
                            , 1959), 168.
                  
                     38 Kemper, History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , II, 635; State Report, 391.
               
                     suffering from smallpox, Cowing stated that this admission by
                    Bunch "shines like a dazzling star in the deep gloom of his professional pathway. Heaven
                    grant that it may light the way to better things to come." 
                        Muncie
                     newspaper editors were acutely aware of the rivalry among 
                        Muncie
                     physicians and urged the doctors to lay aside such petty quarrelling and to unite to
                    fight the epidemic.39 But the dissension did not stop.
            There also were the "infallible" remedies for smallpox that appeared in the
                    newspapers. One never-failing treatment that was said to have cured thousands called for one ounce
                    of cream of tartar dissolved in a pint of boiling water. This concoction was to be drunk at various
                    intervals during the day, after which the patient would be completely well in three days. But the
                    claims of this cure were mild in comparison to a more widely touted one, which purportedly had been
                    used for thirty years and had cured all but one case of smallpox. The treatment called for one grain
                    of sulphate of zinc plus one grain of foxglove (digitalis) mixed together with half a teaspoon of
                    water, to which four ounces of water were added. One was to take one teaspoon every hour. According
                    to one practitioner, this medicine would cure the disease in only twelve hours. Although such
                    remedies appeared frequently in the local papers, there is no indication that any sizable number of
                    people relied on them for a cure.40
            
            Because neighboring Hoosiers were frightened that the disease might spread, they established
                    quarantines against 
                        Muncie
                     residents. In virtually every community in Delaware and 
                        Randolph
                     counties, as well as in such cities as Anderson, 
                  Elwood, New Castle, Hartford City
               , 
                  Marion, Frankfort
               , and as far away as 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , authorities employed special policemen to guard roads and train stations and to
                    prohibit persons from 
                        Muncie
                     from entering or remaining within their borders unless the 
                        Muncie
                     visitors had health certificates stating that they had been successfully vaccinated and
                    were free from the smallpox infection. These restrictions were instituted despite assurances from
                    Metcalf that they were neither necessary nor advisable.41
            
            Fear of smallpox was so great in some areas that officials went beyond the routine quarantine. On
                    September 13 the Board of Health of 
                        Randolph County
                     declared that all people who entered from 
                        Muncie
                     would be quarantined for ten days, no matter if they 
                  
                     39
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Times, August 22, 1893; Starr, Transformation of
                                American Medicine, 96; A Portrait and Biographical Record of Delaware
                                and 
                                    Randolph
                                 Counties, Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1894), I, 216; Cowing Scrapbook, 12.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning News, August 24, September 23, 1893; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Herald, August 24, 1893.
                  
                     41
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning News, September 10, 14, 15, 16, 1893; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Times, September 13, 15, 1893; Cowing Scrapbook, 21; State Report,
                            145.
               
                     had a whole "carload" of certificates with
                    them. Such a declaration included the towns of 
                        Winchester
                    , Union City, Farmland, and Parker City. Soon officials of the state board of health
                    forced the 
                        Randolph County
                     board to remove some of the objectionable features of the statement, but 
                        Muncie
                     residents were never certain if they would or would not be detained in 
                        Randolph County
                    . Despite the action of the state board of health, 
                        Albany
                     and Eaton also threatened to quarantine any 
                        Muncie
                     residents who tried to visit their communities.42
            
            One of the reasons for drastic measures was distrust of health certificates issued in 
                        Muncie
                    . An article in the 
                        Albany
                    
                    Journal stated that
                        there has been so much well known carelessness in the management of the disease by 
                                Muncie
                             officials that the authorities of 
                                Albany
                             have not very much confidence in their ability or knowledge. Health
                            certificates have been given out simply upon the demand of anyone who wanted them. Tickets
                            have been sold at the depot without recommendation of "Czar" Metcalf.43
                  /
            
            The presence of a person from 
                        Muncie
                     or of someone who had recently visited was sometimes enough to cause considerable fear
                    and hysteria in some communities. Near 
                        Middletown
                     the school board for the Painter School issued an order prohibiting the children of
                    John Beckner from attending school. The reason for this strong action was that Beckner's
                    sister-in-law had been working in the home of a 
                        Muncie
                     man who contracted smallpox. The lady soon left 
                        Muncie
                     and returned to her home near Talbor, where a few days later she was visited by the
                    Beckner family. When parents of children at the Painter School learned of this, they demanded that
                    the school board prohibit the Beckner children from attending school; the school board complied.44
            
            Fear gripped Daleville when an elderly gentleman named McAlister, while slightly intoxicated,
                    confessed that there was a boy from 
                        Muncie
                     visiting his home who was "all broke out." Although
                    McAlister's home was a mile and a half east of town, the Daleville community begged for a
                    doctor to examine the boy. Dr. G. W. H. Kemper from 
                        Muncie
                     volunteered to investigate the case. When he arrived at the Daleville train station he
                    observed that the town was wildly excited and frightened. It took Kemper a while to locate the lad,
                    for the youngster was fishing. When Kemper finally found the boy, the doctor had to admit that the
                    young fellow was certainly broken out but not from smallpox. The boy had gotten into some poison ivy
                    or poison oak.45
            
            
               
                  42
                        
                            Muncie
                        
                        Daily Times, September 15, 1893; Cowing Scrapbook, 19, 21.
               
                  43 Cowing Scrapbook, 26.
               
                  44
                        
                            Muncie
                        
                        Daily Herald, September 23, 1893.
               
                  45 Cowing Scrapbook, 30; State Report, 144–45.
            
            
            In late September Anderson believed it had a case of smallpox. According to the Anderson Herald, about two weeks before, an Anderson man named Collier had handled some household
                    goods belonging to a family that was moving from 
                        Muncie
                    . Although the 
                        Muncie
                     family did not live near any of the infected houses in 
                        Muncie
                    , the Anderson paper obviously believed this furniture was the cause of the illness.
                    When it was learned that the furniture had been shipped out of 
                        Muncie
                     just before the ruling went into effect requiring all such articles to be fumigated,
                    Anderson people were convinced that 
                        Muncie
                     had given their city a case of the dreaded disease. As it turned out, Collier did not
                    have smallpox; but relations between the two cities were strained by the incident. 
                        Muncie
                     newspapers claimed that Anderson mothers put their unruly children to sleep by
                    threatening to send them to 
                        Muncie
                    .46
            
            Salesmen found it difficult to travel in the area. At 
                        Albany
                    , two such men who had recently been to 
                        Muncie
                     were arrested and placed under close guard because they did not have certificates of
                    health. Just the rumor that a person had been in 
                        Muncie
                     was enough to get some traveling salesmen run out of town, as happened in 
                        Winchester
                    . Prominence likewise mattered little. George Keiler, well-known 
                        Muncie
                     architect, tried to travel through 
                        Albany
                    . He was put into quarantine and had to notify 
                        Muncie
                     officials of his dilemma. Not until Cowing, who was well known in 
                        Albany
                    , sent a telegram stating that Keiler was all right was the architect released.47
            
            Although only thirty-three years old and in practice for little more than three years, Cowing took
                    his position as county health officer seriously. In an attempt to reduce the fear county residents
                    had of smallpox spreading to their communities, he frequently spoke to groups throughout the county
                    clarifying the situation in 
                        Muncie
                    , explaining the nature of the disease, and trying to prevent panic. One of his biggest
                    tasks was simply to refute rumors. According to Cowing, each day brought some sensational story to
                    be refuted. For instance, it was reported that dozens were dying daily in 
                        Muncie
                    , that the city clerk had issued only one burial permit, and that bodies were either
                    cremated at the garbage furnace or were sold.48
            
            By the time the quarantine was issued on September 7, 1893, there were fifty-two cases of smallpox
                    and one death. The next ten days saw an additional fifty persons break out with the disease. Then
                    after the seventeenth of September a lull hit the area. New outbreaks of smallpox appeared, but they
                    were limited almost 
                  
                     46 Cowing Scrapbook, 29–31; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning News, September 15, 1893.
                  
                     47 Cowing Scrapbook, 21–22.
                  
                     48 Kemper, History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , II, 699; State Report, 122.
               
                     wholly to families already infected. Hopes that the disease was
                    being controlled were shattered in early October, however, when a new wave hit the city. There were
                    two, three, or four new cases everyday as the disease crept from house to house in the infected
                    district. In some places every house in a row of five or six, one by one, became infected. By
                    October 5, there had been 133 instances of the disease reported. Mercifully, the situation then
                    improved. Perhaps it was simply that the disease had run its course, but more likely it was
                    immediate hospitalization that helped prevent its spread. From October 6 to 23 there were only eight
                    new smallpox patients. That number was reduced to six the last week in the month, and only one
                    additional person broke out with smallpox from November 1 to 9. Two other outbreaks in November and
                    December brought the total of smallpox cases in the 
                        Muncie
                     epidemic to 150.49
            
            In 1876, the previous time smallpox had appeared in 
                        Muncie
                    , fifty people contracted the disease, and five died from it. This time there were
                    twenty-two deaths. The death angel seemed to play no favorites in 
                        Muncie
                    . Thirteen males and nine females died. Fifteen of the victims were adults, ranging in
                    age from their early twenties to their seventies. In addition, three infant children, one girl of
                    nine, and three teenagers died. Of the twenty-two who failed to recover, seventeen had never been
                    vaccinated. Two of the victims had old vaccinations and three were vaccinated after the epidemic
                    began. To avoid spreading the disease, no public funerals were allowed for any of these victims, and
                    all were buried during the middle of the first night after their death, which avoided any public
                    gatherings and made possible the disposal of the infected bodies as soon as possible.50
            
            Because fighting the epidemic cost the city thousands of dollars each week and brought it to within
                    two thousand dollars of its statutory limit of indebtedness, several citizens suggested that the
                    city attempt to persuade the state to reimburse some of the expenses. The state legislature, in
                    anticipation of an invasion of cholera, had made an appropriation of $50,000 for the
                    "purpose of preventing the introduction and spread of cholera and other infectious diseases
                    within the state." Since much of 
                        Muncie
                    's cost was in trying to keep the disease from spreading, the health officials
                    believed they had a legitimate right to request funding.51
            
            Surprisingly, governor Claude Matthews received several letters from 
                        Muncie
                     citizens urging him not to use the epidemic fund 
                  
                     49
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning News, September 7, October 1, 27, 1893; Cowing Scrapbook, 23, 30,
                            33, 41–43, 46.
                  
                     50 State Report, 150–53; Cowing Scrapbook,
                            10–13, 17, 21–23, 26, 27, 30–33, 39, 40, 46, 48.
                  
                     51
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning News, September 16, 1893; State Report, 93.
               
                     to help 
                        Muncie
                    . Some of the letter writers suggested that 
                        Muncie
                     officials were making "a big thing" out of the epidemic. They claimed
                    that if money were appropriated those in charge would prolong the disease in order to make as much
                    as possible out of it. The governor also received letters from some 
                        Muncie
                     physicians still maintaining that the city merely had chicken pox, and not smallpox.
                    Those letters, Matthews believed, were caused by rivalry among schools of medicine in the city. Even
                    Dr. S. S. Boots, president of the Indiana State Board of Health, recommended that the fund not be
                    used to aid 
                        Muncie
                    , although his reasons were quite different. He stated in his recommendation to the
                    governor that smallpox in 
                        Muncie
                     was now under control and that there was no threat of its spreading over the state.
                    Furthermore, he said that 
                        Muncie
                     showed an ability to maintain its internal quarantine without need of state money.52
            
            But the majority of the members of the state board of health differed with their president and
                    recommended that the fund be used to help the quarantined city. The governor eventually agreed with
                    the majority of the board and announced on October 5 that the epidemic fund would be used to help
                    defray some of the expenses in 
                        Muncie
                    . For the first week of October 
                        Muncie
                     received $1,000 from the fund and $800 each of the following
                    three weeks for a total of $3,400. Total cost of the epidemic to the city was
                    $22,807, leaving a balance of $19,407, or nearly $1.00 for every
                    man, woman, and child in the city. Most of the city's expenses were for vaccinations,
                    medicine, food, and payments to physicians, nurses, and guards.53
            
            As the number of new cases decreased, 
                        Muncie
                     citizens became eager for the quarantine's repeal. By the end of October
                    churches had not held religious services for seven weeks. Schools had not yet opened for the
                    1893–1894 school year, delayed by more than a month. The autumn opening of the Opera
                    House had been postponed more than once. Residents who traveled outside the city were weary of the
                    problems in getting all luggage fumigated and holding onto health certificates. Naturally business
                    in the city was dangerously low, and businessmen were eager to see the hinterland trade once again
                    enter the city.54
            
            Nevertheless, the state board of health had said that the quarantine would remain in effect until
                    there had been no new cases for fourteen days. 
                        Jackson
                    , along with Father Schmidt and two members of the city council, went to 
                        Indianapolis
                     on November 3 
                  
                     52 Cowing Scrapbook, 27, 32, 38.
                  
                     53
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning News, October 6, 13, November 2, 4, 1893; Cowing Scrapbook, 24,
                            33, 40, 41, 47; State Report, 120, 124–25, 148.
                  
                     54
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Herald, October 31, 1893; Frederick 
                                Putnam
                             Diaries, August 28, 30, 1893 (Special Collections, Bracken Library).
               
                     in an attempt to convince state officials that it was safe to
                    lift the quarantine. After much persuasion, the board agreed. Metcalf came to 
                        Muncie
                     and announced on Saturday afternoon, November 4, that the quarantine was lifted. Public
                    gatherings such as church services would thus be allowed. Schools could open on Monday, and travel
                    outside the city no longer required certificates of health or fumigation of luggage. There was some
                    celebration that evening as about five thousand people congregated in the streets blowing horns and
                    ringing bells. Yet most did not celebrate. The epidemic had been terrible and the deaths saddening;
                    people were happy to have the bad times behind them but felt no sense of celebration, just
                        relief.55
            
            Months after the epidemic ended, several doctors wrote what they believed had been learned from the 
                        Muncie
                     experience. They overwhelmingly agreed that vaccination, isolation, and disinfection
                    were the three important factors in stamping out the disease. They learned that in some cases
                    immunity was not acquired after one vaccination; certain people required a second or even a third
                    shot. They also noted that vaccination, even though it did not always give absolute immunity, did
                    lessen the liability of attack, the severity of the disease, and the possibility of death.
                    Furthermore, all the physicians stressed that domiciliary quarantine was ineffective in preventing
                    the spread of the disease. As a rule, they believed that a hospital with a faithful medical staff
                    offered better conditions for recovery than did a patient's home. They also pointed out
                    that by early removal of patients from their home to a hospital, the danger of infecting others was
                    greatly diminished. Once a patient was removed to a hospital, the doctors agreed that a thorough
                    disinfection of the house was extremely important to prevent the disease's spread.56
            
            The smallpox epidemic produced extraordinarily difficult times for 
                        Muncie
                    . Health officials were particularly hard pressed. They worked long hours everyday and
                    yet met with opposition all along the way. Quarantine precautions were frequently ignored. Many
                    persons refused to be vaccinated. Several physicians denied the existence of the disease, and public
                    criticism of the way the epidemic was handled was not infrequent. Economically the city was hard
                    hit; the depression of 1893 had adversely affected 
                        Muncie
                     during the summer, causing one bank to close its doors. Before businesses could
                    recover, the epidemic virtually cut off all trade with people living outside the city.
            Obviously domiciliary quarantine did not work, and there is little doubt that the disease would have
                    been eradicated sooner if 
                  
                     55
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Daily Times, November 4, 1893; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning News, November 4, 5, 1893.
                  
                     56 State Report, 146, 162, 165, 182, 360.
               
                     a smallpox hospital had been opened immediately and if the
                    patients had been quickly removed to that hospital. The delay in opening the hospital was
                    unfortunate but understandable.
            Yet in the end, the system worked. Despite resistance from some, thousands of residents were
                    vaccinated. After the initial delay, city officials were concerned enough to make tough
                    community-wide regulations and to enforce them despite some popular opposition. School officials
                    also held fast that only vaccinated children could come to school. Hospitals restored most victims
                    to health and reduced the spread of the disease. As bad as the epidemic was, it would have been much
                    worse had city officials showed an unwillingness to establish quarantines, had they been
                    unsupportive of vaccination, or had they refused to open smallpox hospitals.
         
         
         
            "To do for my self": Footloose on the Old Northwest Frontier
            Edited by William C. Wilkinson∗
            
            The account that follows is the story of life in the Old Northwest Territory during the frontier
                    period as recollected by the narrator, John Wilkinson. It is not a tale of heroics, but rather the
                    story of a man facing life's requirements and carrying them out in an honest and honorable
                    manner. That it took place at a time and in a land that was evolving from a wilderness into a
                    settled agricultural expanse makes it pertinent to the history of the Northwest Territory and the
                    resulting states.
            Joseph Wilkinson and Ruth Ratcliff, the parents of John, had arrived with their families in
                    southeastern Ohio in the fall of 1804, the year following 
                        Ohio
                    's admission to statehood.1 They were both in their early
                    teens as the wagon trains slowly moved from the Piedmont area of 
                        North Carolina
                     through the Appalachian Mountain passes, along and on the Kanawha River of what is now
                    West Virginia to the Ohio River. Here they floated their wagons and other
                    possessions over into the newly formed first state of the Northwest Territory. Both children lost
                    their mothers soon afterward, perhaps due to the rigors of the journey. On the frontier, where
                    neighbors were rare, proximity and similar backgrounds brought about their marriage, August 30,
                    1810, in the area then controlled by Ross County. John was the second in their family of eight
                    children that grew to adulthood: Hiram, John, Seth, Amy, Harriet, Maria, William, and Margaret.2
            
            
               
                  ∗ William C. Wilkinson, a 1941 engineering graduate of Purdue
                        University, is now retired. He has pursued historical research as an avocation throughout his
                        lifetime. William Wilkinson, youngest brother of John, is his great-grandfather. The document
                        was handed down from John Wilkinson through a son and a granddaughter to a great-grandson, where
                        it was donated to the Moulton Historical Society, Moulton, 
                            Iowa
                        , near John's final home. William C. Wilkinson wishes to thank the numerous
                        individuals, libraries, and societies that have aided in editing the manuscript. His particular
                        thanks go to Hayward Goff, Jr., who first brought the document to his attention, to the late
                        Lois Corder, who provided a copy for his use, and to Christine Anderson, who obtained permission
                        to publish.
               
                  1 Williams Bros., pub., History of Ross and 
                                Highland
                             Counties,
                        
                            Ohio
                         (
                            Cleveland
                        , 1880), 272.
               
                  2 Information obtained from the John Wilkinson family Bible.
            
            
            During John Wilkinson's lifetime the axe was replacing the rifle and would be replaced by
                    the plow. In this half century peoples spread like a tide from the Appalachian Mountains to the
                    Pacific Ocean. The Wilkinson family was one of the numerous upland southern groups that helped
                    people the Midwest after the Revolutionary War—the pioneering type that moved onward at
                    each generation, leapfrogging settled areas for the newly opened public lands toward the west. Every
                    twenty years or so, all or a portion of the family loaded the wagons and set out.
            The Wilkinson family was like many others on the frontier. Indeed, its travels and John's
                    particular activities had a certain parallel to Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    's family and his early years. Both families moved by generation from the
                    southern highlands to Indiana, then to 
                        Illinois
                    , driving oxen teams and building log cabins as the need arose. John's sortie
                    into northern Illinois and his flat-boat trip down to 
                        New Orleans
                     followed by a year or two 
                        Lincoln
                    's similar travels. Both were axmen and used this frontier tool for shelter and
                    income, splitting out rails and cordwood.
            John Wilkinson's travels and adventures as a youth and young man are those that many boys
                    today dream about and yearn for but never experience other than through reading. One can sense a
                    feeling of satisfaction and pride in the recount, even after a lapse of fifty years spent at
                    farming, carpentering, and rearing a large family. John was not a hero type, except possibly to his
                    younger brothers. He was a doer, however, and rode with opportunity whenever it came passing by, as
                    evidenced by his words, "having but little opertunity of going to schoole tho I could wread
                    and write so as to be wread." And so he could. His reminiscence not only makes interesting
                    reading, but also offers insight into life on the 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                  Illinois, Wisconsin
               , and Iowa frontiers during the first
                    half of the nineteenth century.
            The original of this little history was written when John was not yet seventy years of age, seventeen
                    years before his death. The story ends the year his wife Mary Jane died, in 1875. After four years
                    of widowhood John married Anthrite Derrickson on August 13, 1879. He lived another twenty years with
                    his second wife and died April 1, 1899, at the age of eighty-seven, outliving all of his brothers
                    and sisters. He is buried in the Perjue or Riggs Cemetery a few miles from his Iowa home.
            
            January the 16th, 1882—1
            
            A history or sketch of the life of John Wilkinson as given by himself the pearson of this sketch and
                    the second son of Joseph and Ruth Wilkinson I was borne in Ross co
                    ohio—in the year 18.12 Sept the 23 then when I was about 6—years of age father
                    moved with his famley from Ross co to hocking co. whear he had bought asmall track
                    of wilde barren land2 country then was new and wilde gaime plentiful at that
                    time had never beene to schoole a day in life I lived with father and worked on
                    the farme at ome[home?] as boys could do going to schoole3 in the winter for
                    three months in aloge schoole house with greesed paper put over the window to give lite while
                    remaining in hocking co—fathers famley increaced to
                    8—children 4—boys and 4—girles then in the fall of 18.244 father with his family left ohio for the staite of Indiana with one teeme and
                    the teeme consisted of one yoak of oxon and 2—horses and the boys drove 6—head
                    of milk cows after the wagon which father drove himself and after travling about one month5 we stoped in fountain6
                    co Indiana on anice perarie known as Shonee perarie the country 
                  
                     1 In order to provide the most authentic reproduction possible, John
                            Wilkinson's document has been minimally edited. Spelling, grammar, and syntax have
                            been transcribed exactly as written. Although an attempt was made to determine the
                            punctuation intended by the writer, occasionally it was impossible to distinguish among
                            commas, periods, dashes, pen rests, and blots. Generally John Wilkinson used no punctuation
                            at all, although dashes were sometimes substituted for periods. In order to facilitate
                            reading and avoid confusion, double spaces have been inserted between what appears to be a
                            logical sentence break, and seemingly indiscriminate underlining and dashes at ends of lines
                            were omitted—as were obviously unintentional repetitions. Underlining of numbers
                            and letters within a line of text, however, has been included. Illegible words or phrases
                            are indicated in brackets. John Wilkinson often attached the article "a"
                            to the following word, as in "asmall" and "anice." He
                            also placed his decimal point two spaces to the left in figures; thus, 5.00 denotes 500.
                  
                     2 These forty acres were located in hilly wooded land that has been
                            described as "poor farming" land. "Anyone who has traveled over
                            Vinton County [
                                Ohio
                            ] does not need to be told that it is not to be recommended as a farming
                            country." Lew Ogan, History of Vinton County, 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (McArthur, 
                                Ohio
                            , 1954), 53.
                  
                     3 In 1820 a school was opened in adjacent Elk Township, and the walk
                            to this school would have been about three miles for John, then eight years of age.
                  
                     4 It is possible that John has erred on this date. Hocking County, 
                                Ohio
                            , records note that Joseph turned in a stray horse March 24, 1826. Other records
                            also tend to show that the move was made in the fall of 1826. This is more in consonance
                            with the time line for the stay in 
                                Fountain County
                            , Indiana. U.S., Eighth Census, 1860, Population Schedules for 
                                Benton County
                            , Indiana, p. 11.
                  
                     5 The distance from their residence in Hocking County, 
                                Ohio
                            , to 
                                Fountain County
                            , Indiana, is about 320 miles. According to one source, a normal rate of travel
                            of a wagon pulled by oxen and accompanied by milk cattle was about twelve miles per day.
                            Thus, the one-month transit time is about what one would expect. See Sanford C. Cox, Recollections of the Early Settlement of the Wabash Valley (
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., 1860), 11–15.
                  
                     6
                            
                                Fountain County
                             was not organized until December 30, 1825, and land sales had begun only a year
                            earlier, December 24, 1824. See Thomas A. Clifton, ed., Past and Present of
                                Fountain and Warren Counties, Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1913), 57–69.
               
                     then was new and rather inclinde to be aguery7 we thare got alease on the perarie on land known as schoole land8 or the
                    16 section and went to work improving and rasing corne which grew and yeald then
                    from 60 to 100—bushels per achor and while living
                    thare we raised and hauld hundreds of bushels of corne to what is known the town of atick9—and throw it in to what was colde aflat botomd
                    or—ore orlean boat for the some of $6.00 per hundred bushel the onley market
                    then that was for corne we compleated our lease that was for 9—years in 4 years and solde the balance of the time on it for 400—dollars and daded
                    100—achors of unimproved land on Shawney creeke and moved on to it not fare from alittle
                    town known by the naime of Robroy10 thare we remaind onley a bout one year till
                    father solde out againe to move to the staite of Illinois with his famley still all a living we
                    crossed the wabash river11 the moning of may the first 18.31 whear the town of
                    Wmsport now stands the county seat of warren co, Indiana and took the road or
                    rather no road across the country towards 
                        Chicago
                    
               12 our outfit 
                  
                     7 Ague, a form of malaria, was prevalent in newly settled lands
                            because heavy growth fostered both dampness and mosquitoes.
                  
                     8 The 
                                United States
                             Land Ordinance of 1785, covering disposition of public lands, set aside the
                            sixteenth section in each congressional township "for maintenance of public
                            schools." In Indiana these sections were not authorized to be sold until 1828 and
                            were generally leased for varying periods of years. Although there was some ambiguity in the
                            statutes, the lease limit was seven years and the limit to each leasee was 160 acres. See
                            Richard G. Boone, A History of Education in Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1892), 4, 21, 171. Although Shawnee 
                                Prairie
                             is cornered by four such sections it is likely that the Wilkinsons worked the
                            one now contained in Logan Township, about two miles northwest of 
                                Rob Roy
                            . Landseekers from Ohio in 1823 explored a large part of northwestern Indiana
                            and "considered the Shawnee prairie, southeast of 
                                Attica
                            , more suitable for settlement than any lands they had seen." Jesse S.
                            Birch, History of 
                                    Benton County
                                 and Historic 
                                    Oxford
                                
                      (
                                Oxford
                            , Ind., 1928), 236.
                  
                     9
                            
                                Attica
                            , on the Wabash River, was the nearest shipping point from 
                                Rob Roy
                             and was a flourishing river and canal town in its early days, vying with 
                                Lafayette
                             for leadership in river traffic. These corn yields were high but not unusual in
                            the virgin prairie. Shawnee 
                                Prairie
                             continued to yield corn, but it was to be another hundred years before these
                            high yields returned, brought about by the scientific use of fertilizer and hybrid seed.
                  
                     10
                            
                                Rob Roy
                             was laid out and recorded July 24, 1828, and enlarged November 13, 1829, for a
                            total of 175 numbered lots. It was situated in the northeast corner of section 30, nestled
                            within the forks of Shawnee Creek. See Deed Book 1, pp. 521, 530, Recorder's
                            Office, 
                                Fountain County
                             Courthouse, 
                                Covington
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     11 William Harrison operated a horse ferry across the Wabash River as
                            early as 1828. It was he who founded 
                                Williamsport
                             as William's Port. F. A. Battey & Co., pub., Counties of 
                           Warren, Benton, Jasper
                        , and 
                                    Newton
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1883), 86–88.
                  
                     12 This route was a portion of the Indian trail which ran from
                                    
                        Greenville, Ohio
                     , to 
                                Chicago
                            . It entered 
                                Warren County
                            , Indiana, just above Pine Creek and traveled northwest past Rainsville into 
                                Benton County
                             where it joined the Potawatomi (Ouiatanon) Trail to the Illinois state line
                            near the present site of Raub. With time this became the 
                                Chicago
                             Road, following the Hubbard Trail north from Bunkum, 
                                Illinois
                            . E. Y. Guernsey, Map of Indiana with Indian trails and
                            villages (Indiana Department of Conservation Publication No. 132; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1932); Jesse Setlington Birch, "The Old 
                                Chicago
                             Road," Indiana Magazine of History, X (December,
                            1914), 396–98; Elmore Barce and Robert A. Swan, History of 
                                    Benton County
                                , Indiana (3 vols., Fowler, Ind., 1930–1932), I, 58.
               
                    
                    
                  JOHN WILKINSON'S TRAVELS
                                THROUGH THE OLD NORTHWEST
                  
               
                     consisted of 2 wagons and six yoak of oxon
                    with cows sheepe and young stock—after travling about 10 days we stoped
                    on astreeme or river by the naime of Iroquoise13 one branch of the Illinois
                    River at alittle trading poste known by the naime of Buncom in Iroquoise co
                    Illinois heare father homestided 1.60. achors of wilde and new lande near what was then known as
                    Huberts trading house on the weste side of the Iroquoise river about 2—miles up the river from buncom the present co. seat of Iroquois county Ill
               14—on this track of lande thare was acabon bilte
                    that we wente in to and wente to worke braking perarie and fencing—at this time the
                    potawatomis was plenty hear and some of them at our cabbon every day tho was peasable tho had to be
                    watched—this was the springe and sumer of black hawks ware the sock indians was ciln and
                    runing off all the white inhabents15 that was then setteld on fox river at what
                    was calde the little woods on fox river16 the north weste branch of the Ill—River about 60 miles from whear we then lived on
                    the Iroquoise River and the maine road or travel then from 
                        Chicago
                     and the little woods on fox River pased rite thrue the naborhood or settelment whear we
                    lived and safty was thaught to bee rather unsearton tho we remaind thare till in June of the next
                    season 18.32—then 
                  
                     13 This river heads up in 
                                Jasper County
                            , Indiana, and flows west and then north into the Kankakee River just south of
                            Kankakee, 
                                Illinois
                            .
                  
                     14 In 1832 Iroquois County, 
                                Illinois
                            , was still a part of Vermilion County (
                                Illinois
                            ) and was not set off until the following year. One of the first settlements in
                            this area was made at Bunkum, on the north side of the Iroquois River. Gurdon S. Hubbard
                            (1802–1886), who traded with the Indians for the American Fur Company, had
                            settled here with others in 1830, but four years later had sold out, given his wife away,
                            and settled in 
                                Chicago
                            . H. W. Beckwith, History of Iroquois County (
                                Chicago
                            , 1880), 335–36. Joseph's 160-acre homestead must have been
                            located in Section 13 on the west side of the Iroquois River, which runs south-to-north in
                            this vicinity. The name Bunkum was changed to 
                                Concord
                            , and a later settlement on the opposite bank was named Montgomery and became
                            the first county seat of Iroquois. Later the county offices were moved to Middleport, which
                            merged with South Middleport and became Watseka in about 1865. Watseka was the name of
                            Hubbard's wife, a Potawatomi Indian. The two settlements of 
                                Concord
                             and 
                                Montgomery
                            , meanwhile, were combined in name to Iroquois by the Big Four Railroad when it
                            passed through in 1871. Late references have been to "Old Bunkum" rather
                            than Bunkum. James N. Adams, comp., "A List of Illinois Place Names," Illinois Libraries, L (April, May, June, 1968), 306.
                  
                     15 This "ware," named for Black Hawk, a Sauk chief,
                            lasted from May 14 to August 2, 1832, and was confined to a small area in northern Illinois
                            and southern 
                                Wisconsin
                            , although Indian movements threw the frontier settlers of western Indiana and
                            eastern Illinois into a flurry of alarms. The "main road,"
                            Hubbard's Trail, from 
                                Chicago
                             to southern 
                                Illinois
                            , passed through Bunkum, and all the bad news must have gotten to the Wilkinson
                            family rapidly. On Sunday, May 18, a great Indian scare passed through to all the settlers
                            west of the 
                                Wabash
                            . See Cox, Recollections, 87; and H. B. Kelt & Co.,
                            pub., The History of Ogle County, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1878), 275–91. This must have been the last straw for Joseph and
                            Ruth with their family of children because they left within a few days. Joseph never fully
                            recovered from this major defeat, and it may have been the cause of his later difficulties.
                  
                     16 See note 24 below.
               
                     having all beene sick and down with the ague and milk sick17 the fall before and with one missfortune and another we became disatisfide
                    and solde out and gave away about all we ever had and started back to Indiana with one yoke of oxon
                    and one olde waggon we stoped near whear we had crossed the wabash river going out in warren co near whear Wmsporte18 now is the presant co seat then not located the country hear was still new and thinley settled heare we remaind
                    afew days in camp till we could git alocation to go into which we got after some time looking round
                    by bying out aman by the naime of A—Lafoone19 got
                    80. achors of deaded20 lande all timber with asmall cabon and afew achors of
                    cleard ground and in corne paid $300—the land lay about 2 miles rite one the
                    maine road21 from Wmsport to 
                        Danville
                    
                    Ill—hear I remaind at home with father till the springe after I was
                    21—years of age in 18.34—Now I left home to do for my self with but little
                    means in Regard to property or schooling never having but little opertunity of going to schoole tho
                    I could wread and write so as to be wread— — —then on the
                    7—of May 18.34 I left home in company with 3 of my nabors to gow to Wisconsin led
                        mines22 my 3—nabors each had awagon and oxteeme I had no intest
                    in any thinge only I was to asiste when neaded to yoak and manage the teems thay was to hall what I
                    had to take That was but little a few cloths and a blanket and achoping
                    ax—that I soposed I would nead when I stoped 
                  
                     17 Like ague, milk sickness was an ever-present illness that plagued
                            settlers of the Midwest. Often fatal, it was caused by a poison passed through the milk of
                            cows grazing on a form of snakeroot common in woods and uncultivated land. A#2 A. Lindsey,
                            ed., Natural Features of Indiana, 1816–1966 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1966), xxv.
                  
                     18 Although the initial platting of 
                                Williamsport
                             was done in 1828, the town grew very slowly, and by 1832 "there were
                            only about twelve families" in the town. Counties of
                                        
                           Warren, Benton, Jasper
                        , and 
                                    Newton
                                , 88.
                  
                     19 Joseph purchased eighty acres from Anderson (Andrew) Laffoon and
                            his wife, Eleanor, then of Lawrence County, 
                                Ohio
                            , on September 17, 1832. The plot was located about one and one half miles west
                            of the center of 
                                Williamsport
                             and less than a mile west of the Robb (also called Baumgartner) Cemetery where
                            Joseph is buried. The deed of sale is recorded in Deed Book 1, p. 318, 
                                Warren County
                             Recorder's Office, 
                                Williamsport
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     20 This may refer to the practice of girdling trees in a wooded area
                            to prevent leaf growth and, in time, to kill the trees. Crops were sown between the girdled
                            trees, which were dropped later after the crops were harvested. See Howard Johnson, A Home in the Woods: Pioneer Life in Indiana (1951; 
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1977), 15. It more likely refers, however, to land acquired by deed
                            rather than by squatting, homesteading, or purchase from the government.
                  
                     21 The old road ran from 
                                Williamsport
                             west about three miles and then directly southwest to 
                        Danville, Illinois
                     .
                  
                     22 The lead mining region is an area in northwestern Illinois and
                            southwestern 
                                Wisconsin
                            . Lead was first found along the Fever River near 
                        Galena, Illinois
                     , in the early 1800s (Indians had been mining here for many
                            years), and findings were pushed up into Wisconsin by 1828. Settlers and fanners from
                            Illinois and Indiana made summer pilgrimages to work in the mines and to haul ore to the
                            smelters as well as the refined lead to 
                                Galena
                             for shipment. History of Ogle County, 
                                    Illinois
                                , 262–63.
               
                     to worke we took the road towards 
                        Chicago
                    
               23 and pased buncom on the Iriquois river near whear father had
                    lived thare we fell in company with several other wagons and teems moving with thare famlies to the
                    little woods on fox river24 whear black hawk had done the moste of his murdern
                    and burning that was still anew contry and unseattled in Ill and anice place—mee and one of our company with his wagon and teeme went by 
                        Chicago
                     with some loding he had for that place 
                        Chicago
                     then was but asmall villege25 we stoped one nite in town slep in
                    our waggon on the north bank of the 
                        Chicago
                     river held the oxon and turnd them out to grase the next day we drove on to fox river
                    whear we Joind the reste of our company that was to waite till we came up heare we remaind one day
                    and 2—nites helped some of the moving famlies lay claime foundations and hear ayonge man
                    by the naime of q—m—Hunter Joind our croud for the lead mindes—this
                    parte of Ill then was new and unsetteld by white man and no roads of any sorte26 that we had to sorty gess at our way we wished to stop near Gelena27 at aplace cauld counsial hill whear one of the men of our prty had 
                  
                     23 This road basically followed Hubbard's Trail and passed
                            through or near what are now the Illinois cities of Iroquois, Beaverville, Momence, Grant
                            Park, Crete, Bloom (
                                Chicago
                             Heights), Homewood, and Blue Island before reaching 
                                Chicago
                            . Henry E. Hamilton, Incidents and Events in the Life of Gurdon
                                Saltonstall Hubbard (
                                Chicago
                            , 1888), 137.
                  
                     24 The area referred to is in the east-central edge of Kane County in
                            St. Charles Township on the east side of Fox River. There were no real settlers here until
                            after Black Hawk's War had ended. The first came in 1834 and were the families of
                            Evan Shelby and William 
                                Franklin
                             of 
                                Warren County
                            , Indiana, perhaps part of the wagon train with John's three neighbors.
                            John S. Wilcox, ed., History of Kane County,
                            
                                Illinois
                             (
                                Chicago
                            , 1904), 718. These would be the "moving families" mentioned
                            later. The Little Woods post office operated in St. Charles Township from 1842 to 1853. Ibid., 41, 680. There were no settlers killed within the limits of what is
                            now Kane County, and the only major massacre of whites during the war occurred down the Fox
                            River in LaSalle County at Indian Creek. Fifteen persons were killed by a small band of
                            mostly Potawatomis. Elmer Baldwin, History of LaSalle County, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1877), 95–106.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Chicago
                             was described in 1834 in a letter by John M. Peck to a friend, and he
                            prophesied that "
                                Chicago
                             will greatly exceed any other place in 
                                Illinois
                            ," although it was just getting under way in growth and had a
                            population of only about one thousand. "The Future of 
                                Chicago
                            —in 1834," Bulletin of the 
                                    Chicago
                                 Historical Society, II (March, 1936), 1.
                  
                     26 A stage route was to be instituted from 
                                Chicago
                             to Savanna, 
                                Illinois
                            , within the year. Probably a general route had been traced but was not yet
                            definite enough to be called a road. The best estimate is that they followed a path a few
                            miles south of a beeline from Little Woods to Council Hill. Scott's army road may
                            have been used for part of the way.
                  
                     27
                            
                        Galena, Illinois
                     , originally called La Pointe, was the headquarters
                            and jumping-off point for the general mining area. The town had a population of about one
                            thousand, and one witness reported that "for its size, [it] is one of the busiest
                            places in the Union… . for a frontier-town, built indifferently of frame and
                            log-houses, thrown confusedly together on the side of a hill… ." Charles
                            Fenno Hoffman, "
                                Galena
                            ," in 
                        
                                    Prairie
                                 State: Impressions of 
                                    Illinois
                                , 1673–1967, By Travelers and Other Observers, ed. and comp.
                            Paul M. Angle (
                                Chicago
                            , 1968), 147.
               
                    
                    abrother living that had gone thare some years before we drove on thrue the wilde
                    perarie often pasing small streems of watter that was full of nice fish and some nice groves of
                    small timber and passed several indian vilegs tho the indins was potowatmies and Winaba[gos] and was
                    friendly and about the third day we came to the bank of Rock river about 30—miles above
                        Dixon28 then asmall trading point on the east bank of Rock river and thare
                    was afary kep thare by the olde man Dixon29 at that time tho whear our party
                    came to the river thare was no place posable to ford or cross tho we happend to fmde asquod of
                    potowamies indians thare preparing to move up the river in canoos for the purpes of geathern rice
                    and crambarys and our party not wishing to gow down to Dixons to cross I was put forward to make
                    atraid with the Indians to take our wagons over30 on canoos and we would swim
                    the oxon I was some what aquainted with the potawatomies indians having lived rite amongst them for
                    ayear or more and had learnd some of thare ways and afew wordes of thare language in regard to traid
                    I was put forward to make atraid with the Indians to take the wagons and ox yoaks over on Canoos and
                    we would swim the oxon that I soon acomplished by promising to pay them five Dollars when all was
                    over safe and sound this thay soone done by tying 2 of thare largest canoos togeather side by side
                    then we set off the wagon box and run the wagon on the canoos and thay pold it over and then came
                    back and took the box or head the same way and so forth till all was over then we drove the cattle
                    into the River and got some of the Indians after them in thare small canoos and soone had all saife
                    on the other shore then I paid them the promiced $5-00—then we set to work and
                    soone had our rig all fixt up and ready for astart and the Indins went on thare way we crossed the
                    River about noone and that eavning we got to anice grove of timber 
                  
                     28 Their crossing point of Rock River would have been just above what
                            is now Byron in Ogle County, 
                                Illinois
                            . It is here that the first bloodshed of Black Hawk's War took place. A
                            group of Major Isaiah | Isaac? | Stillman's drunken Illinois militia disregarded a
                            flag of truce from Black Hawk and attacked the three braves who carried it. This
                            precipitated hostilities, resulting in the utter rout of Stillman's 275-man militia
                            by less than 40 braves. The settlers humorously dubbed the nearby creek,
                            "Stillman's Run." Perry A. Armstrong, Sauks and the
                                Black Hawk War, with Biographical Sketches, Etc. (
                                Springfield
                            , Ill., 1887), 310–30.
                  
                     29 John Dixon, born in Rye, 
                                New York
                            , October 9, 1784, was a founder and developer of Dixon; he took over the Rock
                            River ferry in 1830 and died July 6, 1876, at Dixon. George Lamb, Historical
                                Reminiscences (Dixon, Ill., 1970), unpaged.
                  
                     30 A ford had already been located at Byron, but it may not have been
                            known to John and companions; and it is possible that spring floods had not yet receded by
                            the third week in May. This method of "ferrying" had been practiced by the
                            Indians prior to Dixon's ferry being put into service. If John had used
                            Dixon's ferry, his fees would have been about $1.75 for each wagon and
                            team. Henry R. Boss, Sketches of the History of Ogle County, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                Polo
                            , Ill., 1859), 32–35.
               
                     on anice mound whear thare was alarge loge
                        house31 that some of the settelers had forted in to defend them selvs
                    against the Indians in time of the wore the fort held out—tho the Dore shuter was maid of
                    punchons it was riddeld all to peaces with boolets and the famley left as soone as the Indins had
                    geatherd up the stock and had gone and had not returnd so we took possesion and done well and the
                    next day we begin to come to whear the setelers had returnd and it begin to look more like home we
                    war now begining to git in to the mining destricts of Wisconsin and in about aweeks drive from whear
                    we left the settelment on fox River we came to agrove with afew traiding huts that had beene
                    astablished sence the wore the ws then know by the mame of Council hill32 about
                    halfe way be tweene 
                        Galena
                     and in Ill and Mineral point in Wisconson33 heare
                    the teams stoped to look for work now being in the mines of Wisconsin and myself and Hunter having
                    no intrust in the teems was footloos and we left Council hill about noone to hunt work took the Road
                    to wardst mineral point about 45 miles distent Mineral point then was known and colde by the
                    inhabents thar shake rage34—the first half day we stoped oil nite at
                    ahouse 
                  
                     31 As near as can be determined there were no substantial settlements
                            in the area near the west side of Fox River prior to Black Hawk's War. If the
                            wagons were following traces of previous travelers, they would have traveled a little north
                            of west, intersecting the Kellogg Trail at Crane's Grove near present-day
                            Baileyville. This trail then turned more to the north and passed Oliver W.
                            Kellogg's original dwelling and tavern in west-central Stephenson County.
                            John's description of the land and buildings fits very well. Kellogg built it about
                            1827, sold it in 1831, and the next two owners, 
                                Lafayette
                             and Green, apparently did not live there. Western Historical Co., pub., The History of Stephenson County, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1880), 221, 513. At the onset of the war it was used as a storehouse by the
                            army. It was shot up during the Battle of Kellogg's Grove on June 24, 1832, the
                            door being one of the principal targets and retaining bullets for many years. Edward L.
                            Burchard, "Early Trails and Tides of Travel in the Lead Mine and Blackhawk
                            Country," Journal of the Illinois State Historical Society, XVII
                            (April, 1924—January, 1925), 591–92. James Timms purchased the
                            property in 1835 and became the first permanent settler in the area, exchanging his
                            squatter's title for a government land patent, August 13, 1844. A large monument
                            southeast of 
                                Kent
                             marks the location of this log house and the battle. The distance traveled from
                            the Fox River crossing would have taken about a day and a half, rather than the half-day as
                            remembered by John.
                  
                     32 Council Hill is said to have been named from its use for Indian
                            council meetings.
                  
                     33 Wisconsin was still a territory, and the large area at its
                            southwest point that included the mine region was under the jurisdiction of 
                                Iowa County
                            . See Alice E. Smith, The History of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                : Vol. I, From Exploration to Statehood
                                    (
                        Madison, Wisc
                     ., 1985), 186.
                  
                     34 During the initial years of mining along the hill at Mineral Point,
                            the various cooks in the valley would announce meal time by waving a cloth. Thus the
                            appellation, "Shake Rag under the Hill," shortened to Shake Rag. See
                            Stephen Taylor, "
                                Wisconsin
                            —Its Rise and Progress, with Notices of Mineral Point and Richland
                            County" (Collections of the State Historical Society of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                , Vol. II, No. 15; 
                                Madison
                            , 1855), 486.
               
                     on one branch or fork of the picatolick river35 anice cleare streeme full of fish heare next morning I had to pay the bill for us boath
                    Hunter not having a singel dime and I had but little and we had left all we had with the
                    waggons—tho we got off next morning all rite still on the road to wards shake rage whear
                    we arived next day in time to git our dinners at one of the hotells in the town of which thare was
                    too at that time one of them onde and run by a man by the naime of H—niclas the other and
                    whear we had cald or stoped was onde and run by aman by the naime of J. Hood36
                    hear we got our dinners with the understandin that we should have work the next day—the
                    town at this time had the too taverns that I have spoke of and too drygoods stors and too groserys
                    and one gamling house too or three black smith shope and some other olde shantys that had beene
                    gotten up37 sence the indian trouble mineral point is about halfe way betweene
                    galiena and greene bay38 mineral 
                  
                     35 This is certainly the Pecatonica River which has branches on both
                            the northeast and the southwest sides of Mineral Point. It was the southern branch that John
                            and his friend crossed. The name is derived from the Indian and early on had various
                            spellings. It appeared as "Peekatolake," in Union Publishing Co., pub.,
                                History of Green County, 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                      (
                                Springfield
                            , Ill., 1884), 125; government surveying notes used this spelling. It was also
                            spelled "Pickatolik" in Reuben Gold Thwaites, ed., "The
                            Territorial Census for 1836" (Collections of the State Historical
                                Society of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                , Vol. XIII; 
                                Madison
                            , 1895), 258. Thus, John's version is not so strange.
                  
                     36 "Cap" or "Uncle" Abner Nichols
                            operated the "Mansion House" for many years. He was one of the Cornishmen
                            who gravitated to the mining areas of 
                                Wisconsin
                            . His establishment was the larger of the two and took on the aspects of a
                            frontier tavern as well. In the 1836 census, Nichols was listed with forty-six persons while
                            John Hood was listed with only eight, perhaps indicating the relative sizes of their houses.
                            Thwaites, "The Territorial Census for 1836," 261, 263. John and Matilda
                            Hood and their oldest child were the first permanent settlers at Mineral Point. They came
                            from Missouri in the spring of 1828, possibly from the Old Lead Belt of southwestern
                            Missouri in St. Francois and 
                                Washington
                             counties. At the time of John Wilkinson's arrival, Matilda was
                            operating one of the two hotels or "houses" in Mineral Point. She was the
                            first of her sex to preside over such an establishment in that area. Matilda was born
                            January 8, 1808, and so in the summer of 1834 she was just twenty-six years of age and only
                            a few years older than her young boarder. She and John Wilkinson apparently got on well. His
                            later reference to her as "my good old landlady," was in comradery rather
                            than in reference to age. Her husband eventually struck a lead vein and did well. He died in
                            1844, and in 1860 she was operating a prosperous dress shop as well as her boarding house.
                                History of Green County, 144; Western Historical Co., pub., History of 
                                    Iowa County
                                , 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1881), 656; U.S. Eighth Census, 1860, Population Schedules for 
                                Iowa County
                            , 
                                Wisconsin
                            , p. 187. Her house was described by G. W. Featherstonhaugh as one of two
                            "filthy-looking taverns." Quoted in George Fiedler, Mineral
                                Point: A History (
                                Madison
                            , 1973), 62. Featherstonhaugh had visited Mineral Point in May, 1837. Theodore
                            Rodolf, conversely, thought Hood "kept a good house for those times."
                            Theodore Rodolf, "Pioneering in the Wisconsin Lead Region" (Collections of the State Historical Society of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                , Vol. XV; 
                                Madison
                            , 1900), 358. Rodolf had stopped in Hood's house in September, 1835.
                  
                     37 During Black Hawk's War most of the material of standing
                            habitations was used to build Fort 
                                Jackson
                             at Mineral Point to fend off expected Indian attacks. History of
                                Green County, 144. Following Black Hawk's defeat, the opposite was hastily
                            carried out.
                  
                     38 John probably meant 
                                Madison
                             rather than Green Bay, for which his estimate of halfway was not too far
                        off.
               
                     point is in adespert rough39 part of the state tho rich in mineral of several kinde the mineral destrict at that time
                    was taken up and heald by lots tho each one had to improve or work so much all the time on all the
                    lots that he had or claimd unless he could sell to some one and in order to do that it must be
                    improved some then acorden to promice the land lord whear we had stoped over nite took us out next
                    morning and seat us at work on some new lots that he wished to holde or take up and we went to work
                    Diggin and after too and ahalf days work I took the mumps that I had caught on the Road that stoped
                    my work at presant then about 400 miles from home and with out adollar to save my hide and had left
                    all the close and all I had brought thare with the wagons and teams at counsell hill but what was on
                    my back Distence 45— miles and—Q.—Hunter had
                    nothing in the world only what he had on his back tho he was still able to work and nock round and
                    still came to see me every-day or too and in afew days he earnd some means and baught him self anew
                    shirt and took the dirty one to the olde wash woman and got it washed and braught it to me to put on
                    and he took my dirty shirt to the wash and left it to bee washed and in about too weeks I was able
                    to gow and git my shirt and leave his to be washed then in about one weeke more I was able to gow to
                    work and the land lady of the tavern wheare I had stoped had got some what aquanted with me while I
                    was poking round with the mumps and she neaded aman to help her in the house and I gist sooted her
                    and I went to worke in the kitchen and staid with her till I paid my bill and got some close of my
                    one tho me and Hunter got seperated tho he got work neare town that we still saw each other every
                    few weeks till in august I setteld up with the land lady and got some monny and then I hierd to a
                    man by the naime of Robert Gray40 to work on afarme that he had took up and
                    wished to improve I hierd first for one month and after staying thare alone for 2
                    weeks Gray came to sea how I was gitting alonge and by that time I had got Despert lonson for it was
                    about 14—miles to town and that was the nerest nabors that I had and I
                    tolde Gray when he came dow that I would stay thare no longer alone and when he went back to town he
                    hierd ayonge man by the naime of fillip Bloget41 rite from
                    ohio to come and work with 
                  
                     39 The land had been pitted and scarred by prospectors and by miners
                            working claims, and there was little or no agriculture in the immediate vicinity.
                            Contemporary descriptions of Mineral Point are given in Taylor, "
                                Wisconsin
                            —Its Rise and Progress," 480–88; Strange M.
                            Palmer, "Western Wisconsin in 1836" (Report and Collections
                                of the State Historical Society of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                , Vol. VI; 
                                Madison
                            , 1872), 297–302; History of 
                                    Iowa County
                                , 768, passim; and Fiedler, Mineral
                                Point, 44–60.
                  
                     40 Robert W. Gray was one of the very early arrivals in Mineral Point.
                                History of 
                                    Iowa County
                                , 653.
                  
                     41 Phillip Blodgett was still in Mineral Point for the territorial
                            census of 1836. Thwaites, "The Territorial Census for 1836," 258.
               
                     me till my time would bee out then we had agood time till my
                    month was out—then I and fill as I cald my pardner took agob of Gray to finish the
                        cabing42 that was gist raisd and coverd on the land that he had taking we
                    was to hew punchons and lay the flore and lofte chunk and dob the cracks with mud and bild astone
                    fier place and stick and clay chimney and shutter to the Dore and git it ready to move into for
                    $30.00—that we compleated in about one half month, then I went back to town
                    And got work in town for one month of an olde inglish man that had astore in town naimd Enslon43 the work that I had to do was to Drive ayoke of runaway oxon and a cart to
                    hall mineral from the various pits to the fumes the mineral he got of varrious wons for goods in the
                    store I put in about one halfe the month and got partely sick and quit town againe and hierd for
                    awhile to tend winless44 by the Day till I could git setteld up and git some
                    little Debts that was coming to me and git alittle stouhter then I intend to start home for I had
                    gist got aletter from my Brother Hiram45 at home to come home and in the springe
                    he would gow back with me to the mines and git achoole the imployment that he had beene following
                    for sometime and after afew days I got my afairs settled and seat the first tusday in November to
                    start and when the moning had came I got all ready and gave my good olde land lady and some other
                    friends good Bye I started on the road afoot and alone intending to gow by the way of Counsil hill
                    whear I had lefte some things as I had gone out traveld the first day 40 miles staid all nite at a
                    contry tavern one the road kep by aman by the naime of skiner46 next morning got
                    off with my feete purty sore it now in the fall of 1834—stoped and counsil hill got my
                    blanket and ax and had a gow with an olde woman about the ax tho I satisfed her that the ax was mine
                    and solde it to aman by the naine of Hill for 50 cts and tied the blanket on my
                    napsack—knot noing but I should have to sleep out some nits and mite nead
                    it—from thare I took a cross the contry to strike the stage rout47
                    from Gallena to Dixon on Rock river got in to the 
                  
                     42 A good description of a typical cabin and its construction is
                            contained in Johnson, A Home in the Woods, 6–12.
                  
                     43 In 1829 John D. Ansley opened a supply store. History
                                of 
                                    Iowa County
                                , 657. He also acted as county clerk. "Minute Book, 
                                Iowa County
                             (Proc. of 
                                Iowa County
                             Board of Supervisors)" (Wisconsin Territorial Papers,
                                County Series, Vol. I, No. 2; 
                                Madison
                            , 1942), 14.
                  
                     44 A windlass was used to lower the workers into the mine and to bring
                            up lead ore. A description of a mine at that time is contained in Hoffman, "
                                Galena
                            ," 150–51.
                  
                     45 Hiram Wilkinson was John's older brother.
                  
                     46 John B. Skinner was an early miner in the area, operating primarily
                            in what is now 
                                Greene County
                            , northwest of 
                        Monroe, Wisconsin
                     . The location of
                            Skinner's House is pinpointed in History of Green County, 195,
                            although this location seems out of the way for a direct track from Mineral Point to Council
                            Hill.
                  
                     47 By this year, there were numerous roads or trails leading from
                            southern Illinois to the lead region, and stages were already using some of them. This line
                            was probably following the Kellogg Trail, one of the earliest. Charles K. Carpenter, The Early History of Northern 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (Mount Morris, Ill., 1948), 76.
               
                    
                    
                  LEAD MINE FROM THE ILLINOIS-WISCONSIN REGION, 1839
                  David Dale Owen, Report of a Geological Exploration of Part of
                                        
                           Iowa, Wisconsin
                        , and 
                                    Illinois
                                , Made under Instructions from the Secretary of the Treasury of the 
                                    United States
                                , in the Autumn of the Year 1839, with Charts and Illustrations, Senate
                            Report 407, 28 Cong, 1 Sess., 1843–1844 (serial set 4371.
               
                     road at nite and stoped at the stage office kep by Mr
                        Winters48 the stage went out next morning to Dixon 50—miles so I took pasage on the stage paid $3.00 to Dixon thare I
                    stoped the 3 nite that I was on the road home at Dixon the stage went out next
                    moring at 3.o clock and I wroad agine till noone 30. miles then
                    I left the stage rout and took it afoot to wards Henopin49 on the Ill. river stoped the 4—nite about 5—miles East of the river on anice perarie cald oxbow perarie50—at this time Roads was pore and the Contry now and thinley setteld tho I took
                    the rout or path by the way of Booming grove as it was then known now 
                        Bloomington
                    
                    Ill and I traved on foot and alone all the waye home 4.00 miles
                    in 9 Days51 found fthers famley still all aliving and well on the olde place
                    wheare they was when I left in the springe of 1834—Now having beene gone about
                    7—months and that fall I waid 160 Ibs when at home thare was nothing thare for me to
                    Do—and I hierd to anolde yankey cooper by traid to saw with acrosscut
                    saw with ayounge man by the name of John Maracal52 for half mont then when my
                    time was out I took agobe of cuting corde wood 30 1/3 cts per corde for the same olde man by the
                    name of John Norton53 put up 30—cordes of wood then
                    in the springe of 18.35 I wente to the river to work on flat bottomd or New orleane boats54 bilt for the purpis of carrien produce to market I worked at that bisness
                    till some time in may 18.35 I hierd to aman by the naime of Cortlan Losson55 to
                        
                  
                     48 John D. Winters was a well-known early settler and businessman in
                            Jo 
                                Daviess County
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            . He had taken over operation of the mail route in 1832 and shortly thereafter
                            started a stage route from 
                                Rockford
                             to 
                                Galena
                            . His home with its stagehouse-tavern was located on the hill just east of
                            Elizabeth on the edge of Woodbine Township. H. F. Kelt & Co., pub., The
                                History of Jo 
                                    Daviess County
                                ,
                            
                                Illinois
                             … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1878), 284, passim.
                  
                  
                     49 Hennepin, county seat of 
                                Putnam County
                            , is located on the Illinois River.
                  
                     50 Oxbow 
                                Prairie
                             was located in the south-central part of 
                                Putnam County
                             between Magnolia and the Fox River.
                  
                     51 John seems to have rounded up the mileage. A good walking pace of 4
                            miles per hour for a 9-hour day totals to 324 miles in 9 days. Over much of his journey he
                            would have been following what were then called roads. The mileage of his approximate route
                            is just over 300 miles.
                  
                     52 John Merical was a voter in the 1836 election in 
                                Washington
                             Township, 
                                Warren County
                            . Counties of 
                           Warren,
                                        Benton, Jasper
                        , and 
                                    Newton
                                , 50.
                  
                     53 By 1831, John Norton was an early settler and landowner in 
                                Steuben
                             Township of 
                                Warren County
                            . 
                                Warren County
                             Historical Society, pub., History of 
                                    Warren County
                                , Indiana (
                                Williamsport
                            , Ind., 1966), 103.
                  
                     54 Thousands of flatboats made the one-way trip from Ohio and
                                Mississippi river ports each year; the average travel time from 
                                Louisville
                             was about one month. They were 12 to 15 feet wide and often 50 feet long. Many
                            were swamped and sunk before reaching their destination. See Louis A. Warren, 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                's Youth: Indiana Years, Seven to Twenty-one,
                            1816–1830 (
                                New York
                            , 1959), 177, 259–60; Albert E. Fossier, 
                        
                                    New Orleans
                                : The Glamour Period, 1800–1840 (
                                New York
                            , 1957), 24–25.
                  
                     55 Courtlandt Lawson had opened a grocery in 1834 with foreign and
                            domestic groceries. Counties of 
                           Warren, Benton, Jasper
                        , and 
                                    Newton
                                , 88.
               
                    
                    
                  FLATBOATING TO NEW ORLEANS
                  
                  Courtesy Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D. C.
               
                    
                  FLATBOATS AND SQUARE-RIGGERS ON THE
                                NEW ORLEANS WATERFRONT, EARLY 1830s
                  Courtesy Howard-Tilton Memorial Library, Tulane University, 
                        New Orleans, Louisiana
                     .
               
                     help as abow hand to run one of those Boats to the sitty of new
                        Orleans56 for the some of $50—00 to be paid when the
                    boat was tide to the warfe safe at the sitty of new Orleans and in a bout 3—weeks floting
                    we tide up to one of the worfes at the Citty and I got my pay $50—00 And once
                    more was foot loose to look out for my self now about too thousand miles from home
                    and the colery despert bad57 and at that time thare was over 900 large ships58 thare from the otian to lode and un load some from nearly every nation under
                    the sone I was in the citty about 9. days then I got pasage on alarge steeme boat for ivens ville on
                    the ohio river in the staite of Indiana paid $7.00 on Deck and founde my one grube and
                    slep on aborde on ablanket of my one the boat that I was on was alarge boat 8—boilars side whees naime Ellon Douglas59 hade on about
                    300—Deck pasengers whene she lefte the Citty of New or-leans was a bout 7 Days toEvans
                    ville Indiana barrid one with cilery60 I lefte the boat in the nite wente up in
                    town saide all nite 
                  
                     56
                            
                                New Orleans
                             was in a boom period of population and shipping growth at this time. In 1835 it
                            was a major city with paved streets, a large business area, and a heterogenous population.
                            It must have been an eye-opening visit for John Wilkinson from the frontiers of the Midwest.
                  
                     57 Asiatic cholera had entered the North American continent through 
                                Canada
                             in 1832. It spread to 
                                Chicago
                             and proceeded down the Mississippi Valley reaching 
                                New Orleans
                             in the fall of 1832 and played havoc with the population of 55,000. It
                            reappeared in 1833 and was seriously prevalent until about 1850 when it was finally brought
                            under control. See John Duffy, The Sanitarians: A History of American Public
                                Health (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1990), 79–91. In 1835 it was probably still a topic in 
                                New Orleans
                            . Cholera had struck in the Mineral Point area, having been brought into the
                            lead mines area by General Winfield Scott's army during Black Hawk's War
                            in 1832. "In 1834, the people were afflicted with the cholera which raged here for
                            a considerable time." History of 
                                    Iowa County
                                , 660.
                  
                     58 It is not likely that there were this many "large
                            ships" in port unless the count included flatboats. The port, however, was booming,
                            and to the untutored eye the masts of the many sailing ships must have been countless.
                  
                     59 The steamboat Ellen Douglas was built in New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana, in 1834, although based in 
                                New Orleans
                            . She was a sidewheeler of 270 tons, 150 feet long, and had two decks, with
                            cabins on the second deck, all of which placed her in the category of large steamers of that
                            era. Owned by her captain, John Riley of 
                                New Orleans
                            , the Ellen Douglas operated until 1842 when she was
                            abandoned. The average life of a steamboat at this time was five years; they wore out and
                            were abandoned, if they had not already exploded and burned. "The Merchant Steam
                            Vessels of the 
                                United States
                            , 1790–1868," The Lytle-Holdcamper List and the steamboat
                            enrollment records of 
                                New Orleans
                            . This information was furnished by the Inland Rivers Library,
                                    
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     . The first steamer run from 
                                New Orleans
                             to 
                                Louisville
                             had been made only twenty years earlier, in 1815, but soon the round trip was
                            regularly made in less than one month. By 1835, the up-river speed was about six miles per
                            hour and down-river about twice as fast. The Ellen Douglas arrived in 
                                New Orleans
                             on May 18, 1835, and probably John's flatboat had docked only a day or
                            two previously. The turnaround time for unloading and loading was about one week. The cost
                            of deck passage was one-fourth cabin class, hence John's choice. "The deck
                            is covered and contains berths, but it is a very undesirable way of travelling."
                                
                        
                                    Wheeling
                                 Gazette, quoted in 
                                New Orleans
                             The Bee, May 21, 1835. A daily newspaper column, called the "Marine
                            Journal," carried shipping news.
                  
                     60 It would seem that cholera was still moving up and down the
                        river.
               
                    
                    
                  EARLY STEAMBOAT OF THE ELLEN DOUGLAS
                      PERIOD, 1830s
                  Courtesy Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D. C.
                gote on awagon nexte moninge to wride to tariehoot61 about
                    60—miles paid five Dollars and borded my self coste $2 + 00 at tarihoot I got
                    on aboate going up the wabash to Wmsporte my home in the caben for
                    $3.00 about 60 miles rune up to priesvill62 and
                    woulde gow no further thare I got on another boate for one dollar to Wmsporte 18—miles landed safe at home gone about 2 months founde them all alive and well
                    then it was some time in June and I hierd to afarmer for fifty cts per day to hoe corne while hoinge
                    thare was amane came to see me to git me to worke with tooles on agobe of bildinge a large fraime
                    house for astore in the town of atica on the easte banke of the wabash river in fountain Co—Indiana then but a villege in 18,35 the man was by the name of Wm
                        barkshire63 I hierde to him to worke till fall for $11 per
                    month comenste the laste of June—18.35. In the fall of the same year barkshier got worke
                    in Wms porte the conty seate of warren 
                  
                     61 The year 1832 was important to 
                                Terre Haute
                             as it became an incorporated town with a population of about 600. S. B.
                            Gookins, History of 
                                    Vigo County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1880), 86.
                  
                     62 This must be Perrysville, a small village situated on the west bank
                            of the Wabash River in 
                                Vermillion County
                            , about twenty-one miles down river from 
                                Williamsport
                            .
                  
                     63 A William Berkshire was listed in the 1830 census of 
                                Fountain County
                            . U.S., Fifth Census, 1830, Population Schedules for 
                                Fountain County
                            , Indiana, p. 266. William Barkshire and William Barkshire, Sr., were voters in 
                                Washington
                             Township, 
                                Warren County
                            , in 1836. Counties of 
                           Warren, Benton, Jasper
                        , and 
                                    Newton
                                , 50.
               
                    
                    Co Indiana and moved thare and tooke me alonge still workinge with tooles at
                    aleven Dollars per month then in the springe of 18.36—I still worked with the same tho he
                    tooke in apartner by the name of Robert pearson64—and thay raised my
                    wages to $16—per month and I worked all that sumer and the winter for
                    the same too men the in the springe of 18.37 I still agreed to stay with the saime partys and thay
                    agreed to raise my wages to $32—per month then in the fall of
                    18.37—the 16th of november I was married to agirle in the country by
                    the name of Mary Jane higgenbotham65 she was borne in brown co ohio in the year
                    18.16— December the 29—then in the springe of 18.38 we wente on to aplace in
                    the contry66 that I had got of my brother Hiram—aparte of Fathers
                    olde place 40. achors—I bilte abige loge house on the lande planted anorched and Diged
                    awell and Done some other worke and while thare our firste Childe was borne augest the 2— 18,38—agirle we naimed her Elzabeth Marry—then I lefte
                    that place and wente on to a 10—achor lot67 that I
                    hade baught still in the same naborhood paid $1.00 thare I had bilte agoodsised hewed
                    lowge house and Diged awell and planted an orched and put agood raile fence rounde the hole 10—achors and bilte ashead for ashop thare was borne the 2
                        second Childe aboy—February the 23 18,40 calde his naime Allon Dixon thene we
                    remaind thare till our famley hade increaste to 6 Children 3
                    girles and 3 boys, tho 2 of they boyes was harried thare Died when smalltho neve
                    forgoten by me—then we remainde thare in 
                        Warren county
                     afte we was married about 10—years and I
                    worked the moste of the time at my traide and learnde to make chears and bige
                    wheels to spin wool on then in the fall of 48 I solde the 40
                    achors of lande to aman by the name of—McGruder68
                    for $5.00 and lefte the 10 acors69 for mother and
                        2 single sisters to live on Fathe hade beene Dead70 fore
                    some time and hade Drinked up and spente all that 
                  
                     64 Robert Pearson, a carpenter and joiner, "was a fine
                            mechanic," who came to 
                                Warren County
                             from Delaware in 1835. Ibid., 164.
                  
                     65 Mary Jane Higginbotham was the daughter of John Higginbotham and
                            Jane Reed. She died February 2, 1875, in Appanoose County, 
                                Iowa
                            .
                  
                     66 Joseph had sold his eighty acres to his eldest son Hiram July 14,
                            1834, and in turn Hiram had sold John an undivided half of it in 1837. Apparently John built
                            and lived on his east half. Recorder's Office, 
                                Warren County
                             Courthouse, 
                                Williamsport
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     67 John purchased this from Isaac Crumpton in 1837. It was a half-mile
                            east of his forty acres. Ibid.
                  
                  
                     68 The sale was made by John and Mary Jane to Hezekiah Magruder on
                            September 5, 1848, for $500.00. Ibid.
                  
                  
                     69 In the 1850 census, Ruth Wilkinson and her two unmarried daughters,
                            Amy and Harriet, are listed in 
                                Warren County
                            , 
                                Washington
                             Township. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, Population Schedules for 
                                Warren County
                            , Indiana, p. 5. John sold this property in 1856 when his mother and sisters
                            joined him in 
                                Iowa
                            .
                  
                     70 Joseph Wilkinson died in 1841 and is buried in the Robb Cemetery.
                            Rosella Jenkins, Inscriptions from 
                                    Warren County
                                , Indiana, Cemeteries (3 vols., 
                                Williamsport
                            , Ind., 1986), III, 6.
               
                     himselfe and famly hade ever maide law whate a
                    life—then in the springe of 49—I baught awagon and teeme of
                    2 horses and came to Iowa appanoose co
               71 with wife and 4 children 3—girles and 1—boy all to small
                    to helpe me varry much tho I gote me a claime and wente to worke, we after travlin about
                    2—weeke stoped in appanoose co—Iowa on the third Daye of
                    July 18,49 at Wm Swanks72 that had came to this contry some time be fore we was
                    well aquainted with them in Indiana this conty then was new and the land then not in market that is
                    it coulde not be enterd tho about all clamed and healde by amoblaw73 by the olde
                    settelars I after some time rominge rounde I gote leave to bilde and ocapie ascope
                    of union improved land that hade beene taken up or claimed by aman by the naime of Wm buskirk74 I was to Dead asearton amounte and give him one halfe when it came in to
                    maket he was to holde it cleare by or with the mobe till I coulde git adead for it and it came in to
                    market or coulde bee enterd the scond winter after I came about 18.51—I had brought
                    asolger wrrent with me from Indina for 1.60—achors of govermente lande paid
                    $130. The land office then was at fairfield75 wheare I wente to enter
                    my lande thar I baugh another 1.60 achor warrente paid one hundred and 25$—the too
                    warrents Deaded giste onehalf section or 3.20—achors then I deaded 3 forties or 102
                    achors then I trided rounde till I hade giste 300 achors of wilde and unimpoved land mostly perarie
                    and hasle brush tho thare was some timber on anice branch that run thrue the brush and timber tho
                    wente Dry in the fall and frose Drye in the winter I had now laide out all the monny that I hade
                    braught with me and got all the lande that I thaught I neaded or cood ever fence and git imprved I
                    then wente 0o worke and got up acaben coverd with clabords and planke flore 
                  
                     71 Appanoose County, 
                                Iowa
                            , was organized in 1846. John worked as a carpenter in Center Township in 1850.
                            According to family records, he was followed to Iowa by his younger brother Seth and family,
                            and by his sister Marie and brother-in-law David McConnell. His mother and two other
                            sisters, Amy and Harriet, also arrived there some years later. Ruth and Amy returned to
                            Indiana, but Harriet eventually married and remained in 
                                Iowa
                            . Three of John's siblings, Hiram, William, and Margaret, remained in
                            Warren and Benton counties, Indiana.
                  
                     72 William and Elizabeth Swank and family were living in Udel
                            Township, Appanoose County, in 1860. They had come to Iowa in 1846 from 
                                Warren County
                            , Indiana. A. T. Andrews, Historical Atlas of the State of 
                                    Iowa
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1875), 544.
                  
                     73 The early settlers of unsold public lands had loose organizations
                            that, as a group, frowned upon land speculators outbidding an actual settler who was living
                            on the land when it came up for sale. The group frown was generally adequate. In Appanoose
                            County, because of the Claim Protection Society, "to the credit of Appanoose, be it
                            said that very few disputes arose, and these were entirely bloodless." Interstate
                            Publishing Co., pub., Biographical and Historical Record of Wayne and Appanoose
                                Counties, 
                                    Iowa
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1886), 673.
                  
                     74 A William Van Buskirk married Sarah Johnson, August 19, 1847, in
                            Appanoose County, 
                                Iowa
                            . Ibid., 691.
                  
                     75
                            
                                Fairfield
                             is the county seat of 
                        Jefferson
                                County, Iowa
                     . The land
                            office moved there from 
                                Burlington
                             in 1842. Historical Atlas of 
                                    Iowa
                                , 465.
               
                    
                    
                  
                            JOHN WILKINSON AND ANTHRITE DERRICKSON WILKINSON, MOULTON, IOWA, C. 1879
                        
                  Courtesy William C. Wilkinson.
               
                     thare was amille then giste put by aman by the name of Glass on
                    sharndon River76
                    about 3 miles of me that was sawinge lumber that I gote to lay my flore and make
                    ashuter to the Dore of my caben then in 18.52 I had Rails splite and out to fence 6—achors of pearia that I got broke with an oxteem by aman by the name of
                    Sellars—paid $12 in golde raised corne and foder to feede my stock with
                    what wilde hay I made with asithe that next winter, the next winter 18.53 was
                    Despert colde and that springe it was wet so that it was imposable to git in the fielde to plante
                    anythinge till in July Then thare was smart of corne planted tho maid nothinge from the fact that
                    froste came Early and I with the reste raised nothing tho with cear and the youse of my tools I
                    manage to live paid that next springe $1.00 per bushell for corne about this time one of
                    my horses had Died that left me with out ateeme tho after a time I manage to git
                    holte of ayoke of oxon that I got my wood up with and hald railes out and fenst
                    more ground and got it broke for my worke with tooles I coulde git one achor of peria broke for too
                    days work—77
            
            
               
                  76 Emabus Glass and family were living near John in Douglas Township,
                        Appanoose County, in 1860. He was the township supervisor in 1861. Ibid., 707;
                        U.S., Eighth Census, 1860, Population Schedules for Appanoose County, 
                            Iowa
                        , p. 52. The Chariton River flows southeast through Appanoose County, eventually
                        emptying into the Mississippi River.
               
                  77 John Wilkinson and family were living in Douglas Township, Appanoose
                        County, 
                            Iowa
                        , in 1875. He was noted as born in Ross County, 
                            Ohio
                        , and living in Section 13, post office, Unionville. A. T. Andrews, Historical Atlas. His wife, Mary Jane, died that year and, after four years of
                        widowhood, John married Anthrite Derrickson, August 13, 1879.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Children of the Mill: Schooling and Society in Gary, Indiana,
                    1906–1960. By Ronald D. Cohen. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1990. Pp. xiv, 280. Illustrations, map, notes, index.
                    $35.00.)
            A volume in the Midwestern History and Culture series, Ronald D. Cohen's
                    study of the Gary public schools and its famous founding father, William A. Wirt, is a carefully
                    researched and very useful study. Brought to Gary as its first school superintendent, Wirt went
                    about building a system that provided a reasonable fit for a heavily immigrant and industrial city.
                    This account of one of the nation's most exciting and famous educational
                    experiments—which was frequently emulated, then much criticized, and finally
                    dismantled—is a well-balanced and even-handed rendering.
            The Gary Plan began in 1910 and was part of the progressive educational reform movement that included
                    health exams, night school, "Americanization" programs, and greatly enriched
                    curricula of arts, crafts, manual, and intellectual training. Yet the heart of Wirt's plan
                    was the "platoon system," where elementary students no longer spent the entire day
                    in a single homeroom but changed classrooms for different subjects; one-half of the students would
                    be working in school and the other half would be on the playground. Thus the system could
                    accommodate double the number of students with little or no building and staff expansion. In
                    addition all students were sent at various hours en masse to the auditorium to hear speakers, which
                    also relieved overcrowding and cut educational costs. This work-study-play plan with its long
                    eight-hour day met the requirements of parents with flexible time, whereby a child could arrive
                    late, leave early for home chores, peddling papers, or music lessons.
            The "platoon" and Wirt became famous; visitors flooded into Gary, and the
                    celebrated superintendent was contracted to establish a similar system in 
                        New York City
                    . By 1929 more than 1,000 schools in 202 cities had adopted the Gary Plan, and Wirt had
                    become one of the most heralded pedagogues of his day. After his death in 1938, however, the system
                    fell increasingly into disfavor as educational philosophies changed and shifted. By the late 1950s
                    the Wirt system had been dismantled in Gary and replaced by "contained" elementary
                    classrooms where students spent most of the day.
            
            
               EACH CHILD REPRESENTS A DIFFERENT NATIONALITY AT FROEBEL SCHOOL, GARY, INDIANA, C. 1913
               Courtesy Indiana University Press, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               ETHNIC CHILDREN AT BAILEY BRANCH LIBRARY, GARY, INDIANA,
                        1922
               Collections of the Gary Public Library, Gary; courtesy Indiana University Press, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            In an afterword, Cohen asks, "are the schools overall better or worse than they were thirty,
                    fifty, or seventy years ago?" He responds, "I would not venture a guess"
                    (p. 241). Cohen then proceeds to describe the pathologies afflicting schools that are
                    "overwhelmingly black, plagued with academic problems, occasionally violent, having an
                    essentially automatic promotion policy, and marked by sporadic academic, athletic, and social
                    successes" (p. 243). He wistfully concludes: "Perhaps a return to the old
                    work-study-play plan would make the elementary schools at least more interesting, if not actually
                    increasing the students' academic, cultural, and social skills. Perhaps" (p. 244).
                    This is a solid, worthwhile, and very readable study that places Gary's public schools and
                    its famous "platoon system" and founder into a meaningful and understandable
                    historic framework. Students of education, progressive, and urban history will want to read it.
            MELVIN G. HOLL is professor of history, University of
                    Illinois at 
                        Chicago
                    . He is coauthor, with Paul M. Green, of Bashing 
                            Chicago
                         Traditions: Harold 
                            Washington
                        's Last Campaign, and the forthcoming Restoration: 
                            Chicago
                         Elects a New Daley (1990).
         
         
            
               Ernie's America: The Best of Ernie Pyle's 1930s Travel
                    Dispatches. Edited by David Nichols. (
                        New York
                    : Random House, 1989. Pp. lii, 423. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $21.95.)
            Ernie Pyle's place as the most admired American correspondent in World War II has been long
                    established. Ernie's America proves that the reporting style associated
                    with Pyle during the war already had surfaced in his work in the 1930s. From 1935 until the 
                        United States
                     entered the war, Pyle was a roving reporter who published a travel column six times a
                    week for the Scripps Howard papers. This volume is a selected collection of the dispatches that were
                    used in his column. The more one reads them, even today, the more one understands the
                    columns' popularity.
            Pyle sought subjects about ordinary life that would touch the curiosity of his mass readership and
                    found them most often in rural and small town America. In the latter years of the Great Depression
                    stories based on common folk had a distinctive pulling power in the American imagination. His
                    dispatches introduced readers to people and places throughout the country whose significance could
                    have been overlooked without his guidance. The stories blended geographical description and local
                    history and added dashes of local lore and folkways. They captured the idiom and detail of American
                    life, conveying in the process the hardships endured by Americans in the stringent years of the
                    1930s. Pyle's intimate, anecdotal, and nostalgic writing gave him strong personal appeal.
                    In part that appeal was the result of his interesting and informal descriptive style. He wrote in
                    such a way that it led his 
                    
                  ERNIE PYLE IN HIS PONTIAC CONVERTIBLE, LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA, 1930s
                  Courtesy Pyle Archive. Weil Journalism Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     readers to imagine they were there with him. In part it was
                    also due to the sense of discovery that was central to his dispatches. What remarkable person would
                    he find to write about in this town? What tale could be told of this hamlet? His popularity was also
                    the result of the way in which Pyle put himself into the column; he became a type of unpretentious
                    narrator who shared the language and thoughts of his middle-class readers. Among the personal things
                    he shared with readers were references to his own home and family. His dispatches made frequent
                    references to his boyhood on a farm outside Dana, Indiana, and his periodic visits back there to see
                    his family. Pyle seemed to have an intuitive grasp of what would interest his readers, and these
                    references to his own background and family strengthened the tie he had with them.
            
               Ernie's America is a skillfully compiled volume. It is enhanced by David
                    Nichols's introduction, which ably introduces Pyle in a way that increases understanding of
                    the man and his work. Nichols should be commended for his astute explanation of Pyle's
                    skills of observation and narration and also for his sensitive treatment of the character flaws that
                    both Pyle and his wife Jerry endured during the years when the couple roamed about the country.
                    Ultimately, however, it is Pyle's dispatches that stand out in this volume. They remind
                    readers that the human interest factor in journalism need not be trite, sensational, or startling to
                    be successful.
            JAMES D. STARTT, professor of history, 
                        Valparaiso
                     University, 
                        Valparaiso
                    , Indiana, is the author of Journalism's Unofficial Ambassador: A
                        Biography of Edward Price Bell, 1869–1943 and coauthor of Historical Methods in Mass Communication. He is presently working on a book on Woodrow
                    Wilson and the news media.
         
         
            
               The Bishop's Boys: A Life of Wilbur and Orville Wright. By Tom D.
                    Crouch. (
                        New York
                    : W. W. Norton & Company, 1989. Pp. 606. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $22.50.)
            Since the first public flight by Wilbur Wright in 1908, the Wright brothers have not lacked for
                    biographers. The Bishop's Boys contributes a sympathetic personality
                    analysis of Wilbur and Orville Wright, as well as a fresh and very readable account of their roles
                    in the technological and social history of aviation.
            Author Tom D. Crouch contrasts the Wrights with other members of the international aeronautical
                    fraternity at the end of the nineteenth century. Although the Wrights readily acknowledged debts to
                    other aviators, their own advances stemmed from a more practical engineering approach. While other
                    experimenters studied birds, Wilbur Wright analyzed bicycle steering to determine the principles of
                    controlling an airplane in flight. As successful bicycle manufacturers, Wilbur and Orville easily
                    overcame the problems of construction and power that so preoccupied their peers.
            
            The technological history that is at the core of this book is enriched by the author's work
                    with artifactual evidence, including the pair's primitive wind tunnel, flying reproductions
                    of their early gliders and first airplane, and careful study of Orville Wright's own
                    recreations of his early airplanes. Crouch, affiliated with the National Museum of American History,
                    provides a fascinating aside on the provenance of an American icon, the Wright airplane exhibited at
                    the Smithsonian Institution.
            
               The Bishop's Boys is most successful when looking at Orville and Wilbur
                    not just as aviation pioneers but also as people. Crouch productively mines their personal papers,
                    as well as an unpublished study by a clinical psychologist on the Wright family. 
                        Milton
                     Wright, the patriarch of the family and a United Brethren bishop, provided a powerful
                    influence on his children. For instance, 
                        Milton
                    's experiences in schismatic church politics were reflected in the extended
                    patent litigation that interrupted the Wright brothers' flying careers. Crouch also
                    provides new insight into how the sibling relationship between Wilbur and Orville molded their
                    working relationship.
            The Wright family home in 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               , provided a haven for the brothers
                    throughout their lives. The Bishop's Boys presents the Wright brothers in
                    the context of their family and the West 
                        Dayton
                     neighborhood in which they grew up. Although other writers have puzzled over these
                    enigmatic figures, Crouch tells a much simpler but richer story of the two ordinary, unassuming
                    midwesterners who taught human beings to fly.
            LAMONT J. HULSE is senior associate with POLIS Research
                    Center at Indiana University-Purdue University at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and is working on the Encyclopedia of 
                            Indianapolis
                        : The City's History, Culture, and People.
            
         
         
            
               The Middle West: Its Meaning in American Culture. By James R. Shortridge.
                    (Lawrence: University Press of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1989. Pp. xiv, 201. Maps, illustrations, tables, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $25.00.)
            Using images of the Midwest from popular magazines from 1820 to the present, James R. Shortridge
                    explains not only where the Midwest is but also what composes it. Shortridge surprisingly discovered
                    that originally the concept Midwest was not a mediation between East and West, but between Northwest
                    and Southwest. The term originated in the 1880s and at first included only Kansas and 
                        Nebraska
                    . By 1912, however, the term had shifted to the more common definition of the states of
                    the Northwest Territory (
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                  Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin
               , and 
                        Minnesota
                    ) and states more westward, including 
                  Iowa, Missouri, North
                            Dakota, South Dakota
               , and, finally, the
                    original Midwest states of Nebraska and 
                        Kansas
                    . Booth Tarkington of 
                        Indianapolis
                     was critical  in enlarging the locational
                    definition of the Midwest, arguing that this twelve-state area mediated between the old industrial
                    East and the youthful West. The Midwest, he maintained, was pastoral, mature, and the quintessence
                    of things American because its people were more native-born and egalitarian than in eastern cities.
            The apogee of the positive image of the Midwest occurred by 1920, but thereafter it quickly declined
                    and reached its nadir by 1950. According to Shortridge, two events caused the decline of the image
                    of the Midwest: the publication of Main Street by Sinclair Lewis and the
                    agricultural depression of the 1920s. Lewis depicted the Midwest as conformist and materialistic,
                    while the depression revealed the economic weakness of farmers. These attitudes were not overcome
                    until the 1960s, when negative views of American cities (associated more with the East and West
                    despite the large Midwest cities of the Great Lakes) made the Midwest (rural in image if not in
                    fact) more attractive. Interestingly, the nostalgia for the Midwest shifted its geographical center
                    back to Kansas and Nebraska because they were mostly rural. In addition, many added Oklahoma to the
                    Midwest and excluded 
                        Ohio
                    , at least as based on Shortridge's study of the mental maps of American
                    college students. Indiana remained part of the Midwest, although its southern half was considered to
                    be on the fringe because of its Upland South culture. College students imagined the Midwest to be
                    rooted in place and genuine rather than superficial in personality, both part of the pastoral
                    tradition.
            Shortridge has created an intriguing overview of the history of the idea of the Midwest in American
                    culture. Perhaps he will stimulate more regional (rather than only state) study of the American
                    heartland. There is still need for a general history or historical geography of the Midwest that is
                    as broadly conceived as Shortridge's definition.
            BRUCE BIGELOW is associate professor of geography at 
                        Butler
                     University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He is currently doing research on the historical geography of nineteenth-century
                    Indiana, including the image of the state based upon the literature of the Golden Age
                    (1870–1920) of Indiana writers.
         
         
            
               The Genesis of 
                            Missouri
                        : From Wilderness Outpost to Statehood. By William E. Foley. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of Missouri Press, 1989. Pp. x, 367. Maps, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. Clothbound, $32.00; paperbound, $17.95.)
            William E. Foley's work on the early history of Missouri is an expanded version of the
                    volume he wrote in 1971 for the multi-volume Missouri Sesquicentennial History. As
                    the subtitle indicates, the book covers the period from the earliest French explorations  of the Missouri area in the late seventeenth century to 
                        Missouri
                    's admission to the union in 1820.
            When someone writes a second book on a topic, the obvious question is whether the new book is
                    substantially the same book as the first one, or whether significant new research and thinking have
                    made the latter book a different one. In this case, the answer depends on the part of the book being
                    considered. Most of the new work in this volume deals with the economy and society of early 
                        Missouri
                    , especially during the French and Spanish periods. The author has done an excellent job
                    of incorporating recent research by social historians and anthropologists to present a richly
                    detailed picture of the lives of the French, Indians, blacks, and American settlers in the state.
                    His treatment of the commercial relations between the French traders and the Osage and other western
                    Indians is especially good, illuminating the Indian perspective as well as the French.
            The only weakness in the handling of the French period is the absence of any discussion of the
                    broader French community in the Upper Mississippi Valley. Because the French in Missouri maintained
                    extensive commercial and social ties with the settlements in Illinois and 
                        Vincennes
                    , some discussion of this larger community would seem to have been in order even if it
                    meant going beyond the political boundaries of 
                        Missouri
                    .
            In contrast to the sections on Missouri social history, the sections on territorial politics,
                    occupying most of the latter half of the book, cover much the same ground as the 1971 book. In fact,
                    a substantial amount was taken straight from the earlier book with only minor additions and word
                    changes.
            Nonetheless, this volume is clearly much more than just an updated edition of Foley's
                    earlier work, and it must be regarded as the starting point for anyone interested in the early
                    history of 
                        Missouri
                    . Its scholarship is sound, its writing style is engaging, and its illustrations and
                    maps are abundant, a combination of traits not always present in state histories.
            ERIC PUMROY is head of Special Collections and Archives at
                    Indiana University-Purdue University at 
                        Indianapolis
                     and is doing research on the 
                        Vincennes
                     fur trader Francis Vigo.
         
         
            
               Ohio and Its People. By George W. Knepper. (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1989. Pp. xi, 508. Maps, illustrations, appendixes, tables,
                    bibliography, index. Clothbound, $32.00; paperbound, $17.50.)
            Producing a single-volume narrative history of any American state, particularly one as old and
                    economically and demographically diverse as 
                        Ohio
                    , is a formidable undertaking fraught with questions of inclusivity, balance, cohesion,
                    and readability. 
                  
                            Ohio
                        
                        
                        
                     KU KLUX KLAN PARADE, SPRINGFIELD, OHIO, SEPTEMBER 8, 1923
                     Courtesy 
                                    Kent
                                 State University Press, 
                           Kent, Ohio
                        .
                  
                        
                        
                     OHIO SUFFRAGETTES Courtesy 
                                    Kent
                                 State University Press, 
                           Kent, Ohio
                        .
                   and Its People, by George W. Knepper, comes very close to being a model effort in
                    this area.
            Knepper's volume is the first significant single-volume history of the state to be produced
                    since James Rodabaugh updated Eugene Roseboom's and Francis P. Weisenburger's A History of 
                            Ohio
                        
                in 1967. With the last multivolume history (History of the State
                        of 
                            Ohio
                        , edited by Carl Wittke) dating from the early 1940s, readers in Ohio were in
                    need of something new. The book is, indeed, a most appropriate successor, not merely because it
                    fills such a great chronological void, but because it carries off its task with a good deal of
                    thought and style. The volume is extraordinarily readable, aided by its division into seventeen
                    chronological/topical chapters and by the use within those chapters of numerous thematic
                    subsections. These subsections are used to great interpretive advantage. For example, Knepper deals
                    with four of 
                        Ohio
                    's nineteenth-century "contributions" to the American
                    presidency in a single section. The comparative discussion of R#2 B. Hayes, James A. Garfield,
                    William Henry Harrison, and William McKinley is tightly written and rich in analysis. What could
                    have been a long, tedious narrative history is avoided by devices such as these and by the
                    author's excellent prose.
            The cohesion and readability of the book are matched, in part, by its inclusivity. Ohio
                        and Its People deals with a variety of issues ranging from the economic conditions of the
                    frontier state to the impact of sports and leisure activities in the late twentieth century.  True to its title, the volume does deal with the people of the
                    state, providing information on everyone from Native Americans to the migrants and immigrants in the
                    state's major cities. In a state comprised of farms and factories, and urban Democrats and
                    rural Republicans, it is not easy to be inclusive, but Knepper nevertheless manages to handle
                    adeptly a number of diverse issues.
            It is, however, the balance in dealing with these issues that causes problems. Urban historians may
                    be pleased that the volume discusses a variety of "city" issues but will be
                    troubled because more attention seems to be devoted to exploration, early settlement, and frontier
                    life. Over half (263 pages) of the volume covers the state's history to the end of the
                    Civil War while the era of great urban growth receives less attention. Telescoping the enormous
                    economic changes and demographic variety of post—Civil War Ohio into so little space
                    creates problems. Consequently, readers will find the longer discussions of frontier life and
                    military campaigns more satisfying than the more "packed" discussions of
                    twentieth-century urban migrants and immigrants (treated in a quick four-page section).
            This, however, is a minor caveat, and the excellent selective bibliography can be used to uncover
                    additional details about any subject treated in the volume. Moreover, the style and structure of the
                    book override any perceived imbalance and "Knepper" justly deserves its quickly
                    acquired position as the state's new history.
            JOHN J. GRABOWSKI served as managing editor of the Encyclopedia of 
                            Cleveland
                         History (1987), and is coeditor, with David D. Van Tassel, of 
                  
                            Cleveland
                        : A Tradition of Reform (1986), and 
                  
                            Cleveland
                        : A Concise History (1990).
         
         
            
               Logs and Lumber: The Development of the Lumber Industry in 
                            Michigan
                        's Lower Peninsula, 1837–1870. By Barbara E. Benson. (Mount
                    Pleasant: Clarke Historical Library, Central Michigan University, 1989. Pp. xv, 309. Maps,
                    illustrations, tables, notes, bibliography. $25.00.)
            The lumber industry of 
                        Michigan
                    , no less dramatic or interesting than that of Minnesota and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , has long awaited its historian. Barbara E. Benson has pieced together the story of its
                    early growth from the pioneer days until 1870, by which time it had become the leading lumber
                    manufacturing center in the 
                        United States
                    . Focusing on the three stages of activity—logging, milling, and
                    marketing—she also looks at the resource base, initial settlement, work force, and lumber
                    entrepreneurs. Using a variety of primary sources, including family and business papers, manuscript
                    and printed census records, credit rating reports and newspapers, and local and lumber history
                    monographs and articles along with those colorful biographical and county histories written  in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, she has
                    produced a thoughtful study.
            
               Logs and Lumber is basically frontier history, but because its subject matter is
                    industrial, it is difficult to find a suitable framework of analysis. Adopting the institutional
                    interpretation of "merchants and manufacturers," the activities of loggers and
                    lumbermen are viewed as responses to an imperfect market. In an era of abundant resources, low cost
                    of entry, seasonal working activities, dependence on water transportation, and a growing local
                    population, men who processed low-value bulky lumber operated under uncertain conditions. Small
                    millmen either remained content to sell locally or went in and out of business according to economic
                    fluctuations. Larger scale entrepreneurs attempted to integrate backwards and forwards acquiring
                    land, contracting with loggers, installing improved technology, introducing steam power, and
                    developing marketing strategies. Small and large co-existed. There was no single firm or group
                    dominating production, though the commercial lumber industry as a whole dominated the economy of the
                    Wolverine state.
            The overall pattern is clear, but the details are often incomplete or tentative. Benson is correct to
                    hedge many of her quantitative statements, knowing that the information is not robust enough for
                    sophisticated analysis, but she will leave her readers less satisfied than did her earlier
                    counterparts, Agnes Larson and Robert Fries, who wrote on the Minnesota and Wisconsin pine
                    industries in 1949 and 1951 respectively. It is a pity that the theoretical and methodological
                    outpourings of the "second social science revolution" have weakened the statements
                    of well-researched midwestern monographs. It is also a pity that this enterprising study has been
                    shortchanged in its editorial process. The absence of an index, titles to illustrations, and full
                    headings or footings on some tables detracts from the quality and perseverence of the research.
            MARGARET WALSH, Department of Economic History, University
                    of Birmingham, Birmingham, 
                        England
                    , is currently working on the history of the long-distance bus industry in the 
                        United States
                    , a topic on which she has published several articles.
         
         
            
               Border Diplomacy: The Caroline and McLeod Affairs in
                        Anglo-American-Canadian Relations, 1837–1842. By Kenneth R. Stevens. (
                        Tuscaloosa
                    : University of Alabama Press, 1989. Pp. xii, 225. Map, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $36.95.)
            
               Border Diplomacy is a carefully detailed and documented analysis of the Caroline affair and the ensuing problems that led the 
                        United States
                     and British to the brink of war in the early 1840s. Kenneth R. Stevens has followed the
                    complicated chronology with explicit care for each and every occurrence, carefully outlining  the manner in which states' rights arguments
                    complicated foreign relations during the 1830–1860 period. The book is also thorough in
                    describing the effect of Anglo-American disagreements upon the affairs of other major nations.
                    Stevens clearly indicates why the king of 
                        France
                     was concerned and the czar of Russia offered to mediate the McLeod affair (p. 99).
            Where the work falls short is in presenting the Canadian perspective as different from either the
                    British or American. Even though 
                        Canada
                     did not assume Dominion status until 1867, Canadians were developing unique views
                    during the early nineteenth century. Stevens's statement that "The Caroline affair had been an affront to honor that rankled even peace-loving Americans, and
                    official British unconcern compounded the situation" (p. 156), entirely ignores the
                    well-founded Canadian fear that the affair would be settled by an American demand for grants (from
                    Britain) of Canadian land.
            Another unfortunate omission is the background in British North America that preceded the 1837
                    rebellions. Although Stevens correctly indicates uprisings in both Upper and Lower 
                        Canada
                    , he neglects to explain why there was little popular support for either movement. There
                    is no mention of Louis-Joseph Papineau, who led the movement in Lower 
                        Canada
                    . Material about William Lyon Mackenzie, the eccentric leader of the Upper 
                        Canada
                     insurrection, is much too sparse considering his post-rebellion life and the influence
                    he had on his grandson, William Lyon Mackenzie King, later prime minister of 
                        Canada
                    . Nevertheless, Border Diplomacy is an interesting and welcome
                    contribution to a neglected portion of American history.
            HELEN JEAN NUGENT began the Canadian
                    Studies Program at 
                        Franklin
                     College, 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana, in 1984 and continues there as director of Canadian studies and associate
                    professor of history. Currently she is researching the background of early Indiana
                settlers.
         
         
            
               No Better Place to Die: The Battle of Stones River. By Peter Cozzens. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1990. Pp. xi, 281. Maps, illustrations, appendix, notes,
                    bibliography, indexes. $24.95.)
            Peter Cozzens, an officer in the Department of State, provides the first scholarly brigade-by-brigade
                    analysis of the Battle of Stones River, 
                  Murfreesboro, Tennessee
               , waged
                    from December 31, 1862, to January 2, 1863. Indiana soldiers fought in every significant encounter,
                    and through the text and eleven excellent maps, the reader can locate and follow individual
                    regiments throughout the battle. Indiana gunners were in the massed artillery that enfiladed
                    attacking Confederates in the decisive action at 4:00 P.M. on the last day. There is discussion of
                    the strategic background, along  with personality sketches of
                    the top commanders, and a chapter on the aftermath.
            Generally, the book supports the interpretations of Thomas L. Connelly in Autumn of
                        Glory: The Army of 
                            Tennessee
                        , 1862–1865 (1971) and James Lee McDonough in Stones
                        River—Bloody Winter in 
                            Tennessee
                        
                (1980). Cozzens's detailed description of the uncoordinated
                    Confederate attack on the Union right on the first day supports Grady McWhiney's conclusion
                    in Braxton Bragg and Confederate Defeat (1969) that Bragg's tactical plan
                    was faulty. Cozzens gives Union General William Starke Rosecrans credit for responding effectively
                    to contingencies, but the key to the tactical draw and Confederate retreat lies with the mistakes of
                    Bragg. Emphasizing dissension in Bragg's high command, Cozzens suggests that enmity was so
                    great between Bragg and General John C. Breckinridge that Breckinridge delayed sending his men into
                    battle, fearing that Bragg would mishandle them.
            Much of the writing is colorful, and through published memoirs and unit histories the action comes
                    alive. At times, however, vitality fades and regiments move with the inanity of pieces on a game
                    board. Moreover, several errors slipped by the editors. For example, Colonel Thomas H. Hunt,
                    commander of the 9th Kentucky Infantry, is identified as Robert Hunt, and Colonel William H. Gibson
                    first appears as commander of the 39th Indiana Infantry, and later, correctly, as head of the 49th 
                        Ohio
                    . Nevertheless, the book contributes to the historiography of this important battle.
            JAMES A. RAMAGE, professor of history at Northern Kentucky
                    University, 
                        Highland
                     Heights, is the author of Rebel Raider: The Life of General John Hunt
                        Morgan (1986), winner of the Douglas Southall Freeman Award and the Kentucky
                    Governor's Award.
         
         
            
               Forged in Battle: The Civil War Alliance of Black Soldiers and White Officers.
                    By Joseph T. Glatthaar. (
                        New York
                    : The Free Press, 1990. Pp. xiii, 370. Illustrations, maps, appendixes, tables, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $24.95).
            Ever since its publication in 1956 Dudley Taylor Cornish's The Sable Arm: Negro
                        Troops in the Union Army, 1861–1865 has rightly held the position of the classic
                    study of its subject owing to its solid research, splendid literary style, and balanced and
                    perceptive analyses. Joseph T. Glatthaar's Forged in Battle: The Civil War
                        Alliance of Black Soldiers and White Officers, although covering much of the same ground,
                    does not supplant it; it merely supplements it, in three main ways. First, it utilizes a large
                    number of primary and secondary sources that either were unavailable when Cornish did his research
                    or were impracticable to obtain prior to the existence of photocopying machines. Second, unlike
                    Cornish's work, which stops with the end of the Civil War, Glatthaar's  volume carries its story into the post-
                        Appomattox
                     years, dealing with the role of black troops in Reconstruction and with what befell
                    them after returning to civilian life. Third, as the title of his book indicates, Glatthaar focuses
                    on a subject that Cornish treated but not at great length, namely the personal interactions between
                    black enlisted men and predominantly white officers of the 
                        United States
                     Colored Troops (USCT). It is his thesis that despite the barriers of race, cultural
                    differences, rank, and above all white ignorance and prejudice regarding blacks, on the whole these
                    interactions were able to develop into a relationship that contributed to victory in the war and
                    pointed the way, at least for awhile, to the achievement of victory over white racism in peacetime
                    as well.
            Probably Glatthaar exaggerates the positive aspects of this relationship; to his credit, he himself
                    provides abundant evidence of the negative side. Also, because he must deal with a large and diverse
                    group of men under circumstances varying with time and place, his generalizations inevitably require
                    frequent qualifications, with the result that he has to make considerable use of such phrases as
                    "on the other hand," "however," "to be sure,"
                    etc.—and this in turn results in some rather tedious passages. Finally, although he
                    displays a sound factual grasp of his topic as such, Glatthaar tends to be a little shaky in his
                    knowledge of the Civil War era in general, as for example in referring to the scrawny James H. Lane
                    of Kansas as "Big Jim" (pp. 7, 122) and asserting that dynamite, which was not
                    invented until 1867, was used to blow up a Confederate fort in 1864 (p. 150)! But these are
                    negligible defects in the overall context of his book, which is a worthy successor to his fine first
                    work, The March to the Sea and Beyond: Sherman's Troops in the Savannah and
                        Carolinas Campaigns (1985), and which deserves to be placed on the shelf beside
                    Cornish's The Sable Arm.
            
            ALBERT CASTEL, professor of history, Western Michigan
                    University, 
                        Kalamazoo
                    , is the author of several books pertaining to the Civil War in the West and a number of
                    articles relating to black troops during the Civil War.
         
         
            
               Vision, Doctrine, War: Mennonite Identity and Organization in America,
                        1890–1930. By James C. Juhnke. (Scottdale, Pa.: Herald Press, 1989. Pp. 394.
                    Illustrations, tables, graph, notes, select bibliography, index. Paperbound, $19.95.)
            Midwestern street wisdom understands Mennonites to be a body of quiet, Protestant Christians, rather
                    like Baptists but with a closer group unity. They are considered low in profile among the
                    denominations but high in performance in the work of missions, peacemaking, and service to the needy
                    on a worldwide scale.
            
            At the same level of street wisdom, the Amish are generally understood as akin to Mennonites but much
                    more "strict." They conduct church meetings in their homes. They retain ancient
                    language, worship ways, hairstyles, and clothing fashions. They reject a great many practices and
                    conveniences of the contemporary world.
            This book certainly expands such popular conceptions. "Men-nonite" is most useful
                    as a broad term that includes the Amish. Both terms have been used and variously combined to apply
                    to scores of American Mennonite fellowships. Perhaps no body of Christians of comparable size has
                    been so fragmented. There are Amish in Indiana who have church buildings and Sunday schools, operate
                    tractors and automobiles, and equip their homes with electrical appliances. There are Mennonites in
                    Indiana who wear long beards and black clothes and travel by horse and buggy. There are Conservative
                    Amish Mennonites known for their liberalism because most of their sermons are in English and few of
                    their young men wear beards.
            Such diversity makes all the more remarkable the goal of this Mennonite Experience in
                        America series. A group of historians has undertaken to "synthesize the historical
                    experience of the various Mennonite groups in America," assuming that a discernible unity
                    exists and that they can describe it with "disciplined integrity" (pp. 2, 14).
                    This study of the years 1890–1930 is the third of four projected volumes in the series.
            In the first 135 pages James C. Juhnke offers a picture of the whole varied Mennonite family in
                    America. Mennonitism in this period was, he says, a "bipolar mosaic" (p. 105). At
                    one pole were the Swiss and south 
                        German
                     Mennonites so familiar to historians in 
                  Pennsylvania, Ohio
               , and Indiana. At the
                    other pole were the Russian Mennonites of Dutch background who generally came to America later and
                    settled farther west. Within each polar area there were hosts of individual Mennonite units.
            Mennonites had found their unity in Europe by standing against Catholic, Orthodox, Lutheran, or
                    Reformed church establishments. In America, where there was no religious establishment, every
                    individual segment of the Mennonite bipolar mosaic had to define its own contour in a context of
                    revivalism, fundamentalism, denominationalism, and the excitement of modern technology. Some became
                    progressives, adopting English, Sunday schools, revivals, denominational structures, publishing
                    houses, mission agencies, colleges, and much of American culture. The "old orders"
                    rejected progressivism. Juhnke treats the "yieldedness" and
                    "humility" of these old orders with great respect. Most Mennonites adopted some
                    middle ground of cautious and controlled change.
            Though he records many ironies in the development of American Mennonites during these decades, Juhnke
                    sees a persistent  unity. Mennonites did not lose their
                    identity, he says, but maintained a "peoplehood" based on the Bible, on the
                    example of the apostolic church, and on the radical Anabaptist vision of the sixteenth century. The
                    abuse of Mennonite conscientious objectors during World War I heightened their consciousness as a
                    nonresistant people. Mennonitism is a marvelous mosaic, he says, but all its parts taken together
                    produce a family likeness which is plain.
            L. C. RUDOLPH is a librarian emeritus at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . He is writing a history of religion in Indiana.
         
         
            
               For God & Country: The American Legion, 1919–1941. By William
                    Pencak. (
                        Boston
                    : Northeastern University Press, 1989. Pp. xviii, 411. Illustrations, notes, tables,
                    bibliographical essay, index. $40.00.)
            Historians of modern America have devoted relatively little attention to groups and movements that
                    have attempted to promote right-wing causes, conservative ideals, or "traditional
                    values." Workers, women, ethnic minorities, political and intellectual radicals, and the
                    poor—at one time or another all victims of persecution at the hands of forces defending
                    the status quo—understandably have elicited more sympathy and attention. Those works that
                    have dealt with conservative and right-wing groups have generally focused on well-known leaders,
                    their ideas, and the cultural climate in which they gained influence. The social histories of
                    conservative and right-wing movements in twentieth-century America, therefore, remain largely
                    unwritten, and questions about the reasons for their movements' continued popularity have
                    been left without reliable answers.
            William Pencak's For God & Country: The American Legion,
                        1919–1941 joins a small group of recent books by K. Austin Kerr, Lynn Dumenil,
                    and Robert Alan Goldberg which has begun to address this problem. Although the American Legion was
                    born in the era of the Red Scare and became well-known for its super-patriotic obsession with
                    communism, Pencak asserts that the Legion's popularity in the interwar years cannot be
                    explained simply by reactionary antiradicalism. The book's general theme is that the
                    Legion's main purpose was to promote "the belief that personal freedom requires
                    responsibility to a community defined both morally and historically" (p. 5). Pencak
                    explains in great detail how the Legion's devotion to this idea led, during the Red Scare
                    in particular, to a rabid, sometimes violent fixation on the International Workers of the World and
                    other radical groups that challenged American institutions and threatened communal harmony in the
                    process. The same commitment to community, however, also led the Legion into campaigns on behalf of
                    the average citizen. First 
                    
                  AMERICAN LEGION HEADQUARTERS, INDIANAPOLIS, 1948
                  Collections of the Bass Photo Company; courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Neg no. 278088.
               
                     among these citizens, naturally, were veterans, and Pencak
                    describes the important role the Legion played in promoting veterans' rights and benefits.
                    Yet the Legion also showed considerable support for mainstream labor unions and demonstrated some
                    willingness to stand behind nonwhite Protestant ethnic minorities who had joined its ranks. Pencak
                    also emphasizes the Legion's involvement in individual communities and its support for
                    activities and causes as well known as American Legion baseball and as wide-ranging as public
                    construction projects, emergency relief, conservation, and child welfare.
            The great strength of this book is its thorough use of the Legion's archives in 
                        Indianapolis
                     as well as the American Civil Liberties Union archives and other manuscript
                    collections. At the same time, however, this is also the book's great weakness. Given
                    Pencak's emphasis on community, one wishes he had gone beyond describing local events and
                    circumstances as they appeared in files at the national headquarters and made a more systematic
                    effort to explain the role that the Legion actually played in different communities. Had he combined
                    his general observations with a bit of local analysis, for example, Pencak might have been able to
                    describe more precisely than he does the social characteristics of Legion members and what
                    distinguished them from other veterans and other groups of citizens. He might have been able to
                    offer some explanation for the Legion's great popularity in Indiana. He might also have
                    been able to offer a more penetrating analysis of the competing interests and conflicts that seemed
                    to influence Legion activities, making members appear to support community business elites in some
                    instances (by attacking Wobblies in the lumber community of Centralia, 
                        Washington
                    , for example) and making them oppose business leaders in other cases (as Minnesota
                    Legion members did in their campaign to protect wilderness areas from development).
            LEONARD MOORE, Reed College, 
                  Portland, Oregon
               , is the author of Citizen Klans-men: The Ku Klux Klan in
                        Indiana, 1921–1928 (forthcoming, University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press).
         
         
            
               The Old Traditional Way of Life: Essays in Honor of Warren E. Roberts. Edited by
                    Robert E. Walls and George H. Schoemaker. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Trickster Press, Indiana University Folklore Institute, 1989. Pp. xvi, 393.
                    Illustrations, notes, bibliographies, maps, figures, table. Paperbound, $15.00.)
            
               Viewpoints on Folklife: Looking at the Overlooked. By Warren E. Roberts. (
                        Ann Arbor
                    , Mich.: UMI Research Press, 1988. Pp. xv, 315. Notes, bibliographies, illustrations,
                    tables, maps, index. $44.95.)
            
            In these two recent volumes honoring the contributions of pioneer folklorist Warren E. Roberts to the
                    emergent fields of folklife and material culture, readers receive a tandem of works that nicely
                    frame Roberts's long and illustrious career. Roberts, a professor of folklore at Indiana
                    University, was the first student to receive a Ph.D. in folklore, but it was his intrigue with the
                    open-air museums of 
                        Norway
                     and the products and methods of local craftsmen that took him from studying English
                    folktales to conducting fieldwork in southern Indiana. Along the way he injected fresh approaches to
                    the discipline of folklore and assisted in its development and maturation. The two books provide
                    both scholars and nonscholars with a well-intended "kick in the pants" to consider
                    and reconsider the overlooked.
            In Viewpoints Roberts lobbies ardently for "a truer picture of past
                    life" (p. 11) by very carefully setting up defenses for his tenets in the introduction and
                    highlighting their efficacy in the collection of essays that appear in the main text. The book
                    contains twenty chapters ranging on topics from folk arts, crafts, and tombstones to tools and
                    Scandinavian log construction. Each chapter considers a finite subject matter with infinite
                    applications and thereby reveals Roberts's dogma for studying folklife: by tirelessly
                    collecting data while keeping an eye toward the larger context one can piece together the puzzle.
                    Roberts is most successful when he adheres to this doctrine; this is particularly evident in his
                    chapters "Tools on Tombstones: Some Indiana Examples" and "Wood Screws as
                    an Aid in Dating Wooden Artifacts," both of which examine minute details in investigating
                    larger themes. Less convincing are his articles on textiles and Hoosier names, where the treatment
                    of these subjects is too brief; it should come as no surprise that his strengths lie in areas of
                    real interest to him. "Turpin Chairs and the Turpin Family: Chairmaking in Southern
                    Indiana" is no doubt this volume's best effort at studying folk art and craft from
                    a folklife perspective. Although originally (and regrettably) declined by this magazine, this 1981
                    article combines effective arguments for pursuing details, process, materials, and genealogy in
                    reconstructing local history: "When one thinks of the overall history of man and his
                    effects on the environment, it is clear that the furniture factories in Monroe and Greene Counties
                    represent a temporary phase, while the Turpins represent the really old, long lasting pattern (p.
                    120)." One can see in this article the benefits of comparing and contrasting the
                    exceptional with the ordinary and projecting from the smaller plane to the larger plane.
                    Roberts's important section on "Overlooked Aspects of Folk Architecture"
                    redoubles this effort by focusing on function and cultural context in the ancestry and construction
                    patterns of early southern Indiana architecture: Scandinavian log buildings and 
                        German
                    -American log buildings. Roberts's unrealized dream of collecting log buildings
                         and reconstructing a folk museum at Indiana University is a
                    lofty goal, but one that also raises questions about context, since their removal and relocation can
                    provide, at best, an artificially recreated context.
            
               The Old Traditional Way of Life offers a chronological and appropriate segue from
                    the previous volume to the current state of folklife studies. Roberts's goals in Viewpoints reach fruition in this festschrift by graduate
                    students and colleagues. His charges to "focus attention on the folk as they appear through
                    their products" (p. 10) are realized in twenty-five articles, ranging from
                    "Spindles and Spoon Racks" to "Grain Stacking in the Midwest"
                    and from "Summer Kitchens of 
                        Harrison County
                    " to "Family Settlement Stories." And, similar to Viewpoints, this volume touches upon the same genres of folk art, folk
                    architecture, and folk narrative. In addition, arguments for the closer examination of regional and
                    occupational folklife are espoused in two excellent articles, "The Northern Lake Michigan
                    Fishing Skiff Tradition" by Janet C. Gilmore and "The River Houseboat in the Ohio
                    Valley" by Jens Lund.
            As a logical extension of Viewpoints, then, editors Robert E. Walls and George H.
                    Schoemaker call upon Roberts's peers to address specific topics relevant to current
                    folklife study. For example, Lynwood Montell considers southern burial customs as unifying group
                    activities, and Allen G. Nobel and Deborah Phillips King analyze the study of folk architecture from
                    a quantitative approach in an article on the disappearance rate of agricultural structures in 
                        Pike County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . Linda D$eAgh's article, "The Ethnography of a Folktale,"
                    raises the question of whether or not "symbols underlying artistic formulations such as
                    folktales should be taken for granted when attempting the interpretation of the specific
                    formulations and variations of individual tales" (p. 346). Each of these contributions in
                        The Old Traditional Way of Life concentrates on one particular aspect of
                    folklife while simultaneously bearing out Roberts's dogma of joining fieldwork and context.
            The publication of these two volumes serves to notify the world of Warren Roberts's
                    achievements and to keep the studies of folk-life and material culture on course. And, just as
                    healthy disciplines are prone to do, the constant questioning and reshaping of theories and
                    movements will lead to a stronger, more vibrant field. It is fitting that Roberts lends his
                    expertise to this charge. It is equally fitting that his contributions are not overlooked.
            DANIEL G. CAREY is an historic preservation analyst in the 
                        Jefferson County
                     Historic Preservation & Archives Division, 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               .
         
         
            
               Gateway Cities & Other Essays. By Leonard K. Eaton. (Ames: Iowa State
                    University Press, 1989. Pp. xvii, 203. Figures, illustrations, notes, index. $32.95.)
            
            
               Saint Louis Illustrated: Nineteenth-Century Engravings and Lithographs of a
                        Mississippi River Metropolis. By John W. Reps. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of Missouri Press, 1989. Pp. x, 198. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $38.00.)
            Leonard K. Eaton and John W. Reps are both senior scholars with distinguished careers: Eaton in the
                    history of architecture and landscaping and Reps in the history of planning. Now each has written a
                    book that reflects his personal interest in a narrow subject that probably will not attract a broad
                    readership. Eaton's Gateway Cities & Other Essays primarily
                    expresses the author's appreciation of and fascination with warehouse architecture in
                    midwestern cities. Reps's Saint Louis Illustrated presents a series of
                    nineteenth-century views of the Missouri metropolis and describes the evolution of the art of city
                    depiction and those people who practiced that craft in Saint Louis. Each, then, examines a small
                    niche of history previously ignored by historians and demonstrates that in such overlooked recesses
                    one can discover insights into the past.
            A native of 
                        Minnesota
                    , Eaton returns to the region of his youth to consider the looming commercial monuments
                    that clustered in the railroad hubs between the Mississippi River and the Rocky Mountains. Examining
                    Saint Paul, Saint Joseph, 
                        Omaha
                    , and Winnipeg, he finds that they developed as major wholesaling centers in the late
                    nineteenth century, and the number of warehouses in each city testifies to the past prominence of
                    the jobbing trade. According to Eaton, the warehouses are architecturally the most distinguished
                    structures in these gateway cities, and he admiringly describes their structure and ornament as well
                    as the architects who designed them and the wholesalers who commissioned them. Moreover, he
                    periodically interjects a plea for preservation of the surviving warehouses.
            As its title indicates, Eaton's work is a collection of essays, some of which are only
                    loosely related to the others. For example, he includes a short discussion of a house and a store in 
                        Michigan
                    , each designed by 
                        Chicago
                    's John W. Root; at the end of the book he inserts an article relating George
                    Caleb Bingham's famed election series of paintings to Dutch genre works of the seventeenth
                    century. Because of this diversity of subjects, Eaton's collection lacks a satisfying
                    focus. The reader might well conclude that Eaton had emptied his desk drawers of remaining
                    manuscripts and thrown them together in this book.
            Reps's work is more coherent with a definite focus on Saint Louis views and viewmakers. In
                    the first half of the nineteenth century artists generally depicted the nascent community from the
                    Illinois shore of the Mississippi River, showing the warehouses along the Saint Louis levee and a
                    scattering of steeples and domes  to indicate other prominent
                    buildings in the background. Then after 1850 aerial views of the city became more common,
                    illustrating not only shoreline buildings but other significant structures as well. In
                    Reps's opinion the high point in Saint Louis viewmaking was Camille Dry's
                    exhaustive portrayal of the city. In 1875 Dry published 110 plates offering a comprehensive
                    depiction of every section of Saint Louis. Each individual building is visible in Dry's
                    plates, and thus the present-day viewer gains valuable insight into the physical structure and
                    nature of a major nineteenth-century midwestern metropolis.
            Together Reps's views and Eaton's detailed consideration of midwestern warehouses
                    shed light on the nature of urban life in the nineteenth-century heartland. Their works are not
                    ambitious initiatives seeking to fit all the pieces of the past together. And their personal
                    interests expressed in these studies may not attract a wide audience. Yet students of the Midwest
                    can benefit from both volumes.
            JON C. TEAFORD is professor of history, Purdue University,
                    West 
                        Lafayette
                    . His latest publication is The Rough Road to Renaissance: Urban
                        Revitalization in America, 1940-85 (1990).
         
         
            
               Picturing 
                            Minnesota
                        , 1936–1943: Photographs from the Farm Security Administration.
                    Edited by Robert L. Reid. (
                        St. Paul
                    : Minnesota Historical Society Press, 1989. Pp. viii, 200. Illustrations, notes.
                    Clothbound, $35.95; paperbound, $19.95.)
            
               
                  
                            Chicago
                         and Downstate: Illinois as Seen by the Farm Security Administration Photographers,
                        1936–1943. Edited by Robert L. Reid and Larry A. Viskochil. (
                        Urbana
                    : 
                        Chicago
                     Historical Society and University of Illinois Press, 1989. Pp. xvii, 194.
                    Illustrations, notes. Clothbound, $29.95; paperbound, $19.95.)
            
               
                        Franklin
                     Delano Roosevelt's New Deal produced a quarter-million images commonly
                    referred to as FSA photographs even though they were generated by three different governmental
                    entities—the Resettlement Administration (RA), the Farm Security Administration (FSA),
                    and the Office of War Information (OWI). Most of the FSA photographers left personal cachets on a
                    corpus that exposed the frayed social fabric of post-Depression, pre-World War II America. FSA
                    photographs were published frequently, and in some cases repeatedly, in contemporary governmental
                    and commercial publications: they were exhibited extensively in retrospectives or thematic shows.
                    The more recognizable photographs were used so often that staff photographer Dorothea Lange labeled
                    them "cookie cutters," but the vast majority of photographs received little or no
                    exposure. To this day, the images continue to interest historians  and aestheticists alike. Most of the photographers who were initially hired were artists in their
                    own right before joining the FSA, and thus many of their photographs have been evaluated in artistic
                    terms in light of artistic careers. The conception, gestation, and the subsequent promulgation of
                    official images, however, necessitates their further examination as a visual treatise or gestalt
                    with utilitarian eyes.
            Beginning in 1977 with John Zielinski's Unknown 
                            Iowa
                        : Farm Security Photographs, 1936–1941, FSA photographs made within
                    a particular state has been one emergent theme of study, including 
                        Ohio
                     (1980), 
                        Mississippi
                     (1982), 
                        Virginia
                     (1985), 
                        Kentucky
                     (1986), Indiana (1987), 
                        Utah
                     (1988), and New 
                        Mexico
                     (1989). The impetus behind all but the first of these productions were exhibitions
                    and/or scholarly theses. Indiana's representation in this category was contributed by
                    Robert L. Reid, who produced the exhibit and its accompanying catalog Back Home Again:
                        Indiana in the Farm Security Administration Photographs, 1935–1943 funded by the
                    then Indiana Committee for the Humanities during "Hoosier Celebration
                    '88."
            Reid reentered this arena in 1989 with two additional releases: 
                  
                            Chicago
                         and Downstate: Illinois as Seen by the Farm Security Administration Photographers,
                        1936–1943 and Picturing 
                            Minnesota
                        , 1936–1943: Photographs from the Farm Security Administration.
                    While both of these handsomely printed publications are successful in achieving regional objectives
                    by presenting images that would have otherwise remained hidden in the collection now housed at the
                    Library of Congress, the former is superior to the latter because it excels in two areas: historical
                    context and succinct editing from a better selection of photographs.
            The contextual tone of 
                  
                            Chicago
                         and Downstate is set by an introductory essay entitled "Picturing 
                        Chicago
                    's History" by Larry Viskochil, curator of Prints and Photographs at
                    the 
                        Chicago
                     Historical Society. Viskochil chronicles photography and its role in the Windy
                    City's growth to Second City status from the earliest uses of the medium to the
                    contemporary photographic documentary "Changing 
                        Chicago
                    ." An essay similar to Viskochil's is not included in Picturing 
                            Minnesota
                        .
            
            The format of both books includes an introduction that outlines the development of the FSA, the
                    photographers whose work is represented, and the unique qualities found within the photographs made
                    in that state, followed by thematic sections that provide background information such as a
                    description of the geographical area, economic or social conditions, or circumstances surrounding
                    the production of the photographs for that section. A confusing design flaw in 
                  
                            Chicago
                         and Downstate, the placement of the last photograph for a given section on the
                    left-hand page facing 
                    
                  SELECTIVE SERVICE REGISTRATION FOR
                                MEN NOT PREVIOUSLY REGISTERED, BROWNTON, MINNESOTA,
                                FEBRUARY, 1942
                  Collections of the Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D. C.; courtesy Minnesota Historical Society Press, 
                        St. Paul, Minnesota
                     .
                the opening text of the next section on the right, was corrected in Picturing 
                            Minnesota
                        .
            
            Approximately 2,400 images were made by seven photographers in 
                        Illinois
                    , 162 of which appear in 
                  
                            Chicago
                         and Downstate. Although seven photographers are represented, almost all of the
                    photographs are by four individuals: Russell Lee, a native of 
                  Ottawa, Illinois
               , whose
                    work comprises more than 40 percent of the images, Jack Delano, John Vachon, and Arthur Rothstein.
                    Images by each of these photographers are represented throughout the book, but most of the sections
                    focus on particular assignments or projects: Lee's photographs of the 1937 Ohio
                        River flood; Rothstein's photographs of southern Illinois in January, 1939,
                    which were made specifically for the Works Project Administration's publication Seven Stranded Coal Towns: A Study of an American Depressed Area by Malcom 
                        Brown
                     and John N. Webb; Lee's photographs of 
                        Chicago
                    's southside blackbelt neighborhood, the 
                    hallmark of the present book, which were made for Richard Wright's 12 Million
                        Black Voices: A Folk History of the Negro in the 
                            United States
                        ; and Delano's coverage of two families—one black, one
                    Italian—to demonstrate the contributions of ethnic groups toward the war effort. These
                    groupings provide the reader with a vivid sense of how the FSA generated and exploited photographs.
            
               Picturing 
                            Minnesota
                        
                incorporates 171 images from approximately 1,500 that were made by eight
                    photographers, but 80 percent of the Minnesota volume is composed of the work of just two
                    photographers, Lee and Vachon, a 
                        St. Paul
                     native who made half the photographs in the book. The chapters are characterized by
                    regions, assignments, activities, events, and FSA projects. With some exceptions, such as
                    Lee's series on logging camps or Vachon's documentation of life on a family
                    friend's farm, continuity within the book is inconsistent, as photographs from the same
                    assignments are often scattered throughout. The arrangement lends little to a comprehension of how
                    the photographs were used by the government or others, and the reader comes away with the impression
                    that the photographers' results were simply filed away. On the positive side, it should be
                    noted, however, that Reid is more thorough in the sectional introductions in both of these books
                    than he was in Back Home Again.
            
            
               
                  
                            Chicago
                         and Downstate and Changing 
                            Chicago
                        : A Photodocumentary are both volumes in the Visions of 
                            Illinois
                        
                series by the University of Illinois Press. These connections, coupled with
                    its internal coherence, add a relevence to 
                  
                            Chicago
                         and Downstate that enhances its significance. The only suggested motive that
                    may have prompted Reid to compile Picturing 
                            Minnesota
                        
                is that he hails from Red Wing, 
                        Minnesota
                    , which detracts from the book's worthiness. It would be truly disheartening if
                    a "pick-a-state, any-state" pattern is emerging where market-driven researchers
                    troop off to the Library of Congress to select images, then hurry back to yet-one-more large
                    university press for publication before someone else realizes they could do the same. Unfortunately
                    these books have taken on a cookie-cutter persona, mimicking the style of Beverly Brannan and David
                    Horvath's Kentucky volume in format, structure, size, typeface, titles, and subtitles.
                    Reid, in following Brannan and Horvath, has imitated a respectable model, but Nancy Wood's
                        Heartland New 
                            Mexico
                        : Photographs from the Farm Security Administration, 1935–1943 best
                    exemplifies that the mold can be successfully broken.
            STEPHEN J. FLETCHER is curator of Visual Collections,
                    Indiana Historical Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
         
            
               Shake-Out: Iowa Farm Families in the 1980s. By Mark Friedberger. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1989. Pp. xiv, 199. Tables, appendixes, notes, index. $22.00.)
            
            An American would have had to have been living on the moon during the past decade to have been
                    unaware of the farm crisis. Newspaper articles, segments on television news, concerts by rock stars,
                    and pronouncements by politicians, leaders of farm organizations, and government bureaucrats
                    regularly drew attention to the plight of farmers losing land that had been in their families for
                    generations. Even more ominous than the personal tragedies suffered by a hard-working people was the
                    danger that the crisis would destroy the family farm and replace it with faceless corporate
                    agribusiness.
            In this splendid little volume, Mark Friedberger investigates the farm crisis in 
                        Iowa
                    , the nation's preeminently agricultural state. Using a combination of careful
                    archival research in land and court records in county courthouses, the reading of local newspapers
                    and government reports, and extensive interviews of 135 farm families, Friedberger provides an
                    insightful and balanced picture of how the crisis affected 
                        Iowa
                    's farm families. The families Friedberger interviewed were not a random
                    sample; he conducted interviews in three areas with different conditions, sought families with at
                    least two generations on the farms, and had to confine his interviews to those willing to
                    participate. If, therefore, his discoveries cannot be considered "typical" in any
                    statistical sense, they nevertheless provide valuable information about the personal effects of the
                    crisis on the farm population—of mounting generational and sibling tensions, of the
                    increasing role of women in decision making, of the growing importance of off-farm work, especially
                    by women.
            Farm families that faced the greatest hardships were those who borrowed on the security of the rising
                    value of their land to buy more land and machinery to work it at high prices and spent a
                    considerable amount of borrowed money to increase significantly their standards of living. Those
                    most likely to weather the downturn were those who inherited their land, received help from family
                    members, and eschewed rapid expansion financed on borrowed money. Amidst considerable variation
                    between those who suffered and even failed and those who did not and between those who saw family
                    and community ties crumble in the face of trouble and those who did not, what emerges from
                    Friedberger's study is the basic conservatism of Iowa farm families. Even among those who
                    suffered and failed, radicalism, even of the relatively bland variety of neopopulism, made few
                    inroads. The affected farmers most often sought to solve their problems as individuals or, more
                    precisely, as individual families. As Friedberger puts, it, "the farm families …
                    found little value in … [the] verbiage packaged for their consumption." If many
                    became "more cynical and alienated than ever before" (pp. 150-51), those who
                    remained after the "shake-out" embranced  no
                    significant new policies. Farming in 
                        Iowa
                     "goes on much as it did before the crisis" (p. 160).
            In the longer-run, however, the shake-out of the 1980s merely continued the trend toward larger, more
                    capital intensive agriculture. Farmers retain ownership of the land, but become junior partners in
                    international agribusiness enterprises; they assume the greatest risks but enjoy the fewest
                    benefits. If Friedberger does not discuss this trend in detail, his discussion of what is only its
                    latest manifestation provides rich insights into the attitudes and outlooks of the nation's
                    declining number of farm families.
            HAROLD D. WOODMAN, professor of history, Purdue
                    University, West 
                        Lafayette
                    , is working on a study of social and economic change in the South following the Civil
                    War.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
