
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 48, Issue 1, pages 19-106. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:48+issue:1+year:1952&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Theory of the History of an American Section and the Practice of R. Carlyle Buley
            
                    Fulmer Mood*
               
                
            From time to time, and never at regular or predictable intervals, there will appear upon American
                    bookstands some work from an historian's pen which by manifesting some special merit or
                    combination of merits warrants the most careful, extended consideration. Such a work was the late
                    Clarence W. Alvord's The 
                            Mississippi
                         Valley in British Politics, and such a work is the one now under review, by
                    Professor Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period, 1815–1840.1 In dealing with works of the kind it is not enough to appraise and estimate
                    them from the point of view of their content alone; it becomes also necessary to treat them against
                    their proper background in the field of historical scholarship, to show where they tie up with
                    earlier valid trends and movements in American historical writing, where and how they depart from
                    these, and wherein they offer new points of view as well as new data and new techniques of
                    presentation. When the present volumes are treated in such a perspective, it will then be seen that
                        The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period is a work of scholarship that compels the
                    attention of historians, and deserves their sharpest, most sympathetic scrutiny.
            The perspective in which Professor Buley's volumes require to be studied is a perspective
                    of almost three quarters of a century in length. If the condition of affairs that obtained about
                    1880 is taken into consideration, American historical writing appears to have been dominated by the
                    generalist, the 
                  
                     * Fulmer Mood is professor of history at the University of 
                                Texas
                            , Austin, 
                                Texas
                            .
                  
                     1 R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period,
                                1815–1840 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950).
               
                     historian who undertook to compose long narratives, often very
                    long indeed, on the history of the country as a whole. The prince of these generalists was, of
                    course, old George Bancroft, then full of years and honors, the immensity of whose reputation
                    exerted a powerful attraction over the minds of the oncoming generation. Thus it was that John B.
                    McMaster, James F. Rhodes, and Edward Channing, young men on the way up by 1890, easily fell into
                    the path already traced by Bancroft, and set themselves to the planning or the execution of works
                    conceived on very large lines. Between 1883 and 1913, McMaster issued eight volumes of A History of the People of the 
                            United States
                        , from the Revolution to the Civil War; Rhodes, during the years
                    1893–1906, brought out seven volumes of the History of the 
                            United States
                         from the Compromise of 1850; and Channing brought out six volumes of his A History of the 
                            United States
                        
               , during the years 1905–1925.
            It did not escape the attention of thoughtful men here and there that in telling the history of the
                    country as a whole, and in recounting that history from the point of view (unconsciously held or
                    not) of Congress and of 
                        Washington
                     as the nation's capital, there was a danger that the several parts of the
                    federal system, the states themselves, should have their histories forgotten. Before the Revolution,
                    and for a while thereafter, historians in this colony and state or that, had risen up to record the
                    progress of notable events in their separate commonwealths. A respectable if small literature had
                    thus been produced by their efforts. By the middle of the century, however, the writing of state
                    histories was not a form of endeavor that, as a rule, appealed to literary men of the first quality.
                    So the form languished, till it all but disappeared.
            A reaction against the rule of the generalists made an initial appearance about 1876 when Professor
                    Herbert B. Adams of the Johns Hopkins University saw fit frequently to set his fledgling doctors at
                    work on aspects of the history of this or that Atlantic Coast State. That there was an uncultivated
                    field in state history two publishing houses soon saw.
            The 
                        Boston
                     firm of D. Lothrop planned a series under the general title of "The Story of
                    the States." First to be published was The Story of 
                            New York
                        
               , by Elbridge S. Brooks (1888). Few indeed of those who contributed to this
                    series are remembered today; an honorable exception is Rueben G. Thwaites, who produced The Story of 
                            Wisconsin
                        
                (1890).
            
            Of considerably more importance was the project worked out by Houghton Mifflin's Horace E.
                    Scudder, as general editor of the series, "American Commonwealths." In 1883 that
                    firm announced this series, the volumes of which were not "to give in detail the formal
                    annals of each member of the Union, but to sketch rapidly and forcibly the lives of those States
                    which have had marked influence upon the structure of the nation, or have embodied in their
                    formation and growth principles of American polity." The announcement recognized (and this
                    is not a little surprising in view of the earliness of the date [1883] that there were to be
                    considered not only those "older commonwealths," planted on the Atlantic coast in
                    the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, but as well the newer states:
                    "The migration from the Atlantic to the Pacific will be studied in the records of the
                    several commonwealths which have registered that migration and added their characteristics to the
                    national type."
            The general editor expounded his reasons for thinking that such a series was both useful and
                    necessary. " The commonwealth," he asserted, "has always been a positive
                    force in American history, and it is believed that no better time could be found for a statement of
                    the life inherent in the States than when the unity of the nation has been assured; and it is hoped
                    by this means to throw new light upon the development of the country, and to give a fresh point of
                    view for the study of American history."
            
               
                  
                            Virginia
                        , A History of the People, by John Esten Cooke came forth in 1883; it was the
                    first in the series. William Barrows' 
                        
                            Oregon
                        
                    , William H. Browne's 
                        
                            Maryland
                        
                    , and Nathaniel Shaler's 
                        
                            Kentucky
                        
                    , as well as still other volumes, speedily followed. So a worthwhile venture in American
                    historiography was hopefully launched.
            It may be presumed that taken in their entirety the volumes on states written by the better authors
                    on Houghton Mifflin's list exerted a seminal influence. Yet this influence never
                    manifested itself to the extent that the popularity of the form was raised to a high level, at least
                    in those days. There was something deprecatory about the task of chronicling the development of a
                    state; over such enterprises, more likely than not, hung an air of the apologetic. The ambitious,
                    enterprising man was all too apt to dismiss these ventures with the charitable observation,
                    "local history, mere local history!"
            
            The composition of state histories had various imponderables to cope with, various psychological
                    obstacles to meet. And at a critical moment in the middle nineties before state histories were
                    thoroughly well rooted there appeared on the scene a new figure, Frederick J. Turner, one who stood
                    out as the young champion of a novelty, the history of the section. For a century
                    and a half Americans had been talking in terms of American sections.2 Now a
                    younger American historian, Turner, emerged to plead that a most fruitful field for historical
                    cultivation was the study of the several sections, the West, the South, and so on. In still another
                    way young Turner gave American historical writing a strong push in another novel direction.
                    Political and institutional history had long been considered the norms in writing. Turner urged the
                    claims of economic history, then all but ignored, and spoke of social history, too. By 1906, after
                    almost half a generation's work on preliminary studies in the new fields of interest as
                    detailed above, he was enabled to offer a finished specimen of his new point of view, a specimen
                    which in The Rise of the New West, 1819–1829 (1906), exhibited a
                    balanced fusion of his concerns for general history (i.e., what goes on in Congress), for sectional
                    history (i.e., New 
                        England
                    , the Middle States, the South Atlantic, the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley, and the Far West of those days), and for social and economic history, as well
                    as for political, institutional and constitutional history. This volume has a pivotal importance,
                    and it may serve in several respects as affording points of departure for various new developments
                    in American historical writing. Thereafter, at least two distinct trends become visible in our
                    subject. First, histories of this, that, or the other American section are composed. Second, the
                    earlier "unity" of history disappears, giving way to a process of
                    fractionalization. For example, economic history breaks off, becomes more and more self-conscious
                    and separate. The tendency toward separation is soon manifested again, when a similar trend sets in
                    in social history. Somewhat later intellectual history breaks off on its independent course. Each of
                    the developments mentioned here will require a further few words.
            In the history of American sections, Ulrich B. Phillips, 
                  
                     2 Fulmer Mood, "The Origin, Evolution, and Application of the
                            Sectional Concept, 1750–1900," in Regionalism in
                            America, ed. Merrill Jensen (
                                Madison
                            , 
                                Wisconsin
                            , 1951), 5–98.
               
                     working as a consequence of Turner's direct influence,
                    originated courses on the history of the Ante-Bellum South, and eventually published Life and Labor in the Old South (1929), which was planned as the first volume in a
                    proposed trilogy on the Old South. Carl Russell Fish, likewise at work as a consequence of
                    Turner's suggestions, developed at 
                        Madison
                     some courses on the history of New 
                        England
                     and a sectional treatment of the Civil War. He wrote no book on the northeast but left
                    behind him a manuscript which was posthumously published as The American Civil War; an
                        Interpretation (1937).
            The utility of the sectional point of view in the treatment of historical data was further
                    exemplified in the following: James Truslow Adams, The Founding of New 
                            England
                        
                (1921), Revolutionary New 
                            England
                        , 1691–1776 (1923), and New 
                            England
                         in the Republic (1926); Walter Prescott Webb, The Great
                    Plains (1931); John Walton Caughey, History of the Pacific Coast (1933); and
                    Oscar O. Winther, The Great Northwest; a History (1947).
            The interest in economic history flowered in numerous volumes. The writer leaves it for others to
                    say, whether any of these published during the period 1900–1930 can take rank as a
                    classic within the subfield of economic history. The concern with social history was given large
                    expression a little later, in a long series of volumes edited by Professors Arthur M. Schlesinger
                    and Dixon R. Fox, which reached publication commencing with the middle nineteen twenties. And
                    finally, in 1943, Merle Curti published The Growth of American Thought, the
                    pioneer, balanced, and comprehensive work on the intellectual history of this country. Its qualities
                    were at once recognized, and the award of a Pulitzer Prize in history fittingly followed.
            That American historical scholarship has infinitely benefited by these specializations and
                    fractionalizations which have drawn new sections to our attention, unknown happenings in economic
                    history, and also forgotten events in social and intellectual history, needs no arguing. We are the richer for these masses of new work. The spirit, however, in which such
                    valuable studies, such appreciative and appreciated studies, have been conducted (and perhaps
                    necessarily so) has often been a spirit of almost willful insulation. Social history can be so
                    divorced from political history that the social data as such end up by wearying or confusing the
                    reader, who sees no path  or pattern through the jungle of
                    particulars spread out before him. Economic history has been, at its worst, treated in a vacuum.
                    Sectional history has been at times so divorced from the general history of the country that the
                    special role of the section in the political Union has not been clearly set forth, or even
                    indicated.
            Consequently, there has grown up a feeling, felt in more than one quarter, that the specializations
                    and fractionalizations have led to a frustrating state of affairs, that a clear sense of the
                    chronology of historical events has been disappearing from historical studies, and that relevant and
                    organic connections between one kind of historical specialty and the other kinds have often been
                    left out of the literary reckoning. There is current among more than a few a species of discontent,
                    a stirring and an uneasy questioning. And it is at this very time of hesitation, that Professor
                    Buley's book is offered with its sheaf of positive and constructive suggestions for the
                    historical writer, who is being forced to ponder and to reflect on his craft's several
                    technical problems that urgently call for consideration.
            Professor Buley, of Indiana University, writes the history of a section, presumably his own. Between
                    Turner and Buley's Indiana, where history along sectional lines is concerned, there may
                    exist a pretty clear if indirect connection. As far back as January, 1907, Turner lectured on
                    invitation at 
                        Bloomington
                    , choosing as his theme "Sectionalism in American History." As
                    reported in the Daily Student, the lecturer showed by means of a large number of
                    maps the natural boundaries, the geographical, the isothermal, agricultural, and economic sections
                    of the 
                        United States
                    . He gave reports of congressional action on tariff and internal improvements which
                    showed sectional influences. In summing up, Turner said, "The significance of all this is
                    that all American history has been a contest of interests representing the various sections; that
                    the 
                        United States
                     could and will hold together as long as these interests are intertwined, that
                    geographical, climatic and agricultural conditions have much to do in deciding the interests of any
                    section, as do ancestry and former home…. Sectional distinction will always dominate in
                    the future as in the past, modified and limited only in such measure as political parties shall
                    rally to their standards classes of people, and offset sectional partisanship by class
                    distinction."
            
            With this lecture Turner personally may have planted a seed for the study of an American section at
                    Indiana University. To this occasion with its possible long-time influences on departmental
                    thinking, one must add the influences derived and acknowledged by Buley from a study with Frederic
                    L. Paxton, Turner's successor at 
                        Madison
                    . The two splendid volumes before us are the harvest, or at least a part of the harvest,
                    of those early plantings. They show to what revelatory and illuminating lengths sectional history
                    can be pushed, and still without forcing or unnaturally expanding the concept. They show, too, that
                    the author has found means to integrate and fuse those several historical specialties which latterly
                    have been suffering from the processes of fractionalization. He has seen that, by taking historical
                    thought, unified, meaningful presentations become possible, in spite of the circumstance that the
                    quantity and the variety of particular facts, levied upon or used by the author, are numerous in the
                    extreme.
            Buley's area for study he defines thus: "To the north of the 
                        Ohio
                    , stretching from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     on the east to the 
                        Mississippi
                     River, and bounded on the north by the Great Lakes, lies a region known in American
                    history as the Old Northwest." And he delimits his period in clear manner: "This
                    work presents an outline of the history of the Old Northwest from 1815, the beginning of the
                    'Great Migration,' to 1840, the date which roughly marks the end of the
                    Pioneer period." His purposes he declares to be three and we may use his own words to state
                    them: "first, to present a balanced summary of the record, without emphasizing the
                    interesting and dramatic at the expense of the prosaic but important; second, to introduce the
                    reader to the rich contemporary historical literature of the period and region; and third, through
                    this literature to capture something of the attitudes and beliefs, struggles and way of
                    life—what Timothy Flint called the 'material of
                    poetry'—of the time and place." It is the opinion of the reviewer
                    that the author has accomplished his three purposes, and has accomplished them superlatively well.
                    One rises from a reading of the work with a respectful and enthusiastic admiration for
                    Buley's masterly control of the materials, his quiet skill in presenting the results, and
                    his ability to transmit the feel, the very sense, of the actualities of a vanished time. One does
                    not linger here to praise the writer for his extensive bibliographies, his industrious foragings  among dozens of scattered files of old newspapers, and for other
                    obvious literary assets expectable in a work of this scope and high seriousness. In these pages the
                    reader will find the unified story of the Old Northwest, the authentic story, reliable and
                    thoroughly documented.
            Granting at the outset, then, that the work is a success, one is led to ask, how in general has the
                    success been contrived? What are the skills in the analysis of the data, and in the setting forth of
                    the facts, that result in the excellence of the finished product? And the reader may be reminded
                    that in treating of the history of the Old Northwest during the given years, the author was working
                    with an area or a space mostly unsettled at the opening of his period, and not entirely populated at
                    its close. His problem was thus more complex than if he had been studying the history, during
                    identical years, of a mature, well-settled section, say New 
                        England
                     or the Middle Atlantic States.
            It is, first of all, because of the thoughtfully worked-out underlying structure of the book that, in
                    the reviewer's opinion, the author has brought off his success. The fundamental
                    ordonnance of the volumes is of importance for understanding the nature and quality of the
                    achievement. One, therefore, calls attention to its expression in chapters, in order to be enabled
                    afterward to comment on and interpret the structure thus revealed. The two volumes between them
                    contain fifteen chapters, making up to a little more than twelve hundred pages. The first chapter,
                    "New Homes in the West," offers a description of the area about 1815, and
                    discusses immigration to the West. The second chapter, "Two New States: Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    ," deals with territorial and statehood matters of these two jurisdictions
                    bordering on the 
                        Ohio
                     River. "The Settler and the Land," chapter three, brings before the
                    reader the acres, the squatters on them, and the laws which govern these folk in relation to the
                    land, etc. Already he is close to the settlers, hewing out homes on credit or otherwise. In the
                    fourth chapter he comes still closer to the people themselves, for "Pioneer
                    Life—The Material Side" is replete with concrete details and specific
                    information. Dwellers in a new land, the pioneers were subject to diseases and ailments
                    characteristic of countries being brought under cultivation. With entire relevancy, then, the author
                    offers his fifth chapter, "
                        Ills
                    , Cures, and Doctors." These men of the West created a  society of their own and in the sixth chapter, "Pioneer
                    Life—Social and Cultural Backgrounds," Buley particularizes their societies. The
                    pioneers had to import and export, had to travel to and fro. In the seventh chapter "Trade,
                    Travel, and Transportation" are dealt with. Naturally, trade leads to problems of money and
                    credit, and in the eighth chapter, "Money, Banking, and State Finance,
                    1815–1836," the author supplies a comprehensive narration of such problems. From
                    economic issues the transition to their expression as political issues is an easy step and the ninth
                    chapter registers the advance under the title "Personal Politics and Republican Solidarity,
                    1815–1825."
            This does not make up the full roll of chapters; the others will soon be mentioned. But here one may
                    halt momentarily to comment on the ordonnance thus far revealed, and especially upon the
                    skillfulness with which the author has solved problems of analysis and synthesis.
            One notes that the author has written of an entire, and a many-sided social entity. He deals with the
                    individual settler, the ways of making livings, the cure of ills, the hardships of travel and trade,
                    the quests for financial expedients and solutions, the programs of politics. These many and diverse
                    aspects of the life of the men of the time he has presented with sufficient detail and in so
                    plausible, so natural a sequential order, that his achievement is almost lost from sight: he has
                    fused and integrated the several aspects of life inside a given section of the country and has
                    fitted them together with a most laudable logic and artistry. The specialties, the
                    "fractions," when so treated, strengthen and support each other. And the support
                    is the stronger because the coverage of the several elements is so conscientiously comprehensive.
                    Thus Buley's plan, to this point (end of the ninth chapter), has shown how economic,
                    social, and political strands can be harmoniously and tellingly interwoven. The example is one which
                    can be profitably studied by other historians who have similar problems to grapple with.
            So far the narrative has paid most attention to the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley sectors of the Old Northwest. But now the author means to bring under his focus
                    the upper regions of his area. Hence, chapter ten is devoted to the wilderness that is being brought
                    under cultivation. This he accomplishes in "The North Settles,
                    1825–1840— 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                     Territory." In the following chapter he is then in a position to continue  his political narratives for all five jurisdictions, which he
                    does for the period 1825–1840. In the twelfth chapter, "Economic History,
                    1836–1840," the author discusses the crisis of '37 and its aftermath
                    in the Old Northwest. These large events out of the way, he then rounds out his study with three
                    chapters on cultural matters: "Schools, Teachers, and Education";
                    "Religion"; "Literature, Science, and Reform." Thus he
                    completes, for his chosen section of the country, a pattern that rises (so to speak) from a basis in
                    materialism to a flowering in ideas and spiritual culture. Altogether, it is a plan broadly
                    conceived with admirable calculation and realized in excellence. Loose ends there are none; all
                    elements chosen for inclusion fit neatly together. A gratifying unity in the finished work thus
                    results.
            Now the main concern is to observe by what particular methods or precise contrivances in
                    craftsmanship it is that Buley makes his contributions toward resolving doubts and difficulties, at
                    this moment of a much-felt sense of fractionalization and fragmentation among the historical
                    specialties. Already it has been seen that he has shown how the economic, social, and political
                    strands, in the large, can be harmoniously and tellingly interwoven. Now it is
                    interesting to see how he makes contributions in the handling and fusing of units of less than
                    chapter length. Two instances of his practice will be cited. The first of these will show how Buley
                    unites and fuses facts relating to the practices of surveying (a branch of the agrarian history of the Old Northwest) with facts relating to the art and theory of surveying
                    (a branch of the intellectual history of the section). The second instance chosen
                    for study will make plain how Buley interrelates and fuses agricultural practices and operations
                    with agricultural periodicals, their content and teaching in theory and practice, and with the work
                    of agricultural fairs. In this unit Buley combines data drawn from three
                    "fractions" and merges them into one. He unites chosen aspects of social history
                    with chosen aspects of literary or intellectual history, and links both with the broad field of
                    contemporary farming operations as such. Thus are fractions totaled up to form an historical
                    integer. And now to our first example. The actual processes of surveying the wild lands, always
                    important in new parts of America, are well handled by Buley. The law of 1796 which governs the
                    function is cited, with its maximum amount per acre for the expense. The work  of the deputy surveyors with their crews is given an actual,
                    painstaking behavioral description, that is, the literary effort aims to mirror the contemporary
                    objective process. The reader learns from it how the congressional township was laid out. This is a
                    bit of the history of civil engineering, particularized. The crews of surveyors, the actual workers,
                    are taken account of, and as their work has importance, so too does their way of life as they
                    performed have interest. What they ate, where and how they bunked while in the field, and to what
                    extent the general government protected them against obstructive tactics as they worked, are all
                    points given space in the author's account. By an easy step he then advances to frontier
                    surveying as an art and a profession. He learns of the education (principally the self-education) of
                    the surveyors. Then is related the current literature of that subject, the authors, their titles,
                    and the dates of publication of these manuals.
            The passage that has just been discussed covers four and one-half pages (vol. I, 119–123).
                    Now, looking back over it a second time, it can be seen with a flash of comprehension the difficult
                    thing that Buley has quietly accomplished in these few pages. Preserving his proportions and an
                    admirable sense of movement, he has contrived to interrelate and fuse the diverse facts of
                    technology, social history, and intellectual history. There is a lesson of wide import here, one
                    that is available for many applications by other historians. The vice of fractionalization can be
                    overcome, and by the analyzing of Buley's method, the secret of the method can be found
                    out.
            The objection may be uttered that this one instance of fusing facts of diverse orders proves nothing,
                    that the author by some fortunate chance stumbled upon the arrangement that led to such happy
                    effects. To this an adequate reply will be to cite another similar case, where the author uses
                    different data, and fits them into a larger and more ambitious pattern. The selected case relates to
                    ways of farming life. Here Buley begins (vol. I, p. 167) by distinguishing between the hunting
                    farmers or the farming hunters, on one hand, and on the other the "true
                    husbandmen." The case of the first is soon disposed of, by the citing of selected facts,
                    the most relevant facts. The character of pioneer agriculture in the area is discussed, with initial
                    comments on the nature of the adjustments which the incoming settlers had to make to the new
                    terrains. Then come in order information on the grains habitually planted by the  farmers, the methods of breaking virgin lands, together with the tools
                    used in that tough labor; the treatment of the soils for planting, the cultivation of the crops, and
                    their protection from pests and dangers, the techniques of harvesting, including the tools used, and
                    the manual as well as the mechanical methods employed.
            The grains having been disposed of, Buley next deals briefly with the grasses, native and imported,
                    the root crops, specialties such as hemp, flax, tobacco, in each case particularizing the data
                    presented with a few well-chosen details as to place, or date, or technique. The viticultural and
                    the horticultural interests of the area are dealt with, the vegetables that were grown are
                    discussed, and a transitory "silk craze" is given due attention. The raising of
                    cattle, and the kinds of stock favored, the sheep interest, horses and improvements in breeding,
                    then follow. The veterinary practice of the day is summed up, and judicious comments are offered on
                    the state of the agricultural arts, and the attitudes toward agrarian innovations.
            From actual practices and the informal comment of the men of the era on those practices the author
                    leads the reader, by an easy step, into the related department of the agricultural periodicals.
                    Here, under his guidance, is made the transition from farming to the related theory of farming.
                    Various principal titles of the agricultural magazines are given, and the quality of the influences
                    they radiated is characterized in informing fashion. The weight of these influences is assessed:
                    "It was to require another generation for the farmer generally to begin to respect science
                    as distributed by way of the printed page" (vol. I, p. 198). From the farm journals one
                    passes on to the record made by the agricultural societies and fairs, with their addresses, prizes
                    and the like. Here he deals with a specific branch of social history. Finally, the weather in
                    relation to agriculture and to human life generally, is discussed, curious and interesting details
                    being presented. With this topic the author terminates his passages on the farming of the time, and
                    advances to the treatment of pioneer clothing. Shelter has earlier been dealt with.
            Here one may offer his own comments on the passages by Buley that have just been conned over. It is
                    to be observed that the author controls a wealth of particular facts, a mass that is beyond measure
                    copious. This richness of data makes it unnecessary  for him to
                    indulge in vague or merely general statements; sharply edged propositions, on the contrary, are with
                    him the rule. What controls his presentation of those facts chosen for inclusion is not an empty and
                    abstract principle of judicious selection as such, but a principle of selection that is tied to a
                    concept of historical processes at work. Buley has a regard for the facts as facts, but he also has
                    a reverence for the operation of the processes. The account we have just gone over is an account not
                    in terms of conventional narrative, or "story," but in terms of specific temporal
                    processes. The facts are patterned together in such a way as to mirror "the
                    taking-place," so to speak, of the processes. As a consequence of such patternings, two
                    results flow: the first, that the accounts inevitably convey a sense of movement, of striving for
                    "forwardness" in time, as it were; the second, that because in historical reality
                    all co-existing social phenomena are somehow interrelated and are inter-dependent in rigorous
                    organic fashion, so then in a literary statement like Buley's, and one based upon a
                    reverence for process and processes, the literary product effortlessly conveys, at least to the
                    perceptive reader, this same sense of the organic connection between the parts of the literary
                    structure. It was earlier pointed out that the ordonnance of the work as a whole was designed with
                    great care, and that this successful design provides first of all the reason for the intellectual
                    success of the work. This ordonnance exhibits, to repeat what was said earlier, a principal pattern
                    for the work as a whole, which is "a pattern that rises … from a basis in
                    materialism to a flowering in ideas and spiritual culture. Altogether, it is a plan broadly
                    conceived with admirable calculation and realized in excellence."
            Now one is in a position to take note that this spirit of admirable calculation extends through and
                    down into the separate parts of the work and its least details. And as the parts on study reveal
                    their organic connections with one another, so the parts and the whole are informed by reverence for
                    the operation of processes.
            Proceeding originally in his laborious and time-consuming search for the facts, Buley at length
                    amassed them, and then reflected upon them with what must have been a prolonged and concentrated
                    thoughtfulness. Whether he entertained any concepts of a sociologically theoretical cast during the
                    periods of cerebration and planning is a tantalizing query which occurs  to the reviewer, who will, however, give no answer to it. The even, the
                    masterly handling of social entities, whether large or small, hints at some such acquaintance, as
                    does the comprehensive coverage of human activities recorded. Yet the strict and never-ending
                    concern for knowledge that is empirically arrived at, tends to hint strongly that the vision held is
                    the vision of an historian. What he has produced will, however, most certainly attract and hold the
                    attention in times to come of historical sociologists. A conscious emphasis is
                    introduced with the italic.
            Buley, to sum it up in a few words, controls empirical facts, concrete processes of social life, and
                    effective historical fusions. He has ability to give satisfying literary statement of the facts and
                    the processes organically interrelated in outer social reality, so that in his book they combine to
                    teach important, much-needed lessons to American historians of today. How to overcome the blights of
                    fragmenting and fractionalizing practices in historical writing is a pressing need in historical
                    craftsmanship. Buley's pages, over and beyond the examples cited, provide numerous
                    examples and solutions of the sort that will yield up their valuable corrective principles to the
                    attentive reader. He has seen some of the current difficulties and with quiet power has specifically
                    shown how to resolve them.
            What bearing does Buley's work have as an encouragement to laborers in the department of
                    state history? This query arises in the perspective supplied by facts earlier detailed, that state
                    history as an historical form was being but slightly pushed just before 1900, at which time, or
                    thereabouts, it underwent partial eclipse. The new rallying cry, persistently urged, came from
                    Turner, at 
                        Madison
                    . It was the call that was to rally young writers to undertake sectional study,
                    sectional histories, and biography, sectionally interpreted. A potent force behind
                    Turner's rallying cry was, the writer believes, the unrecognized force of Hermann von
                    Hoist whose massive work, translated into English and published at 
                        Chicago
                     in eight volumes between 1881 and 1892 as The Constitutional and Political
                        History of the 
                            United States
                        
               , formed a hidden stimulus of no mean magnitude upon young Turner. In the
                    eighties a good knowledge of 
                        United States
                     history from 1789 to the Civil War was about equivalent to a good knowledge of von
                    Hoist. Turner made the earlier pages of von  Hoist his own (say,
                    down to 1844, to cite a date), and then vigorously reacted against them. One might venture the
                    remark that as a youngster he grew in historical stature, by criticizing and assessing the strengths
                    and weaknesses of the expatriated 
                        German
                    . Of emphatic relevance at this place is the sole proposition that Turner the youth
                    strongly dissented from von Hoist's special grasp of American sectionalism. The 
                        German
                     writer saw the unfolding of that history in terms of sections, two
                    sections, the North and the South. The young man from Portage and 
                        Madison
                    , 
                        Wisconsin
                    , knew in his bones that a third section existed, the West. The first major
                    rectification that he made on von Hoist, was to insist upon a conception of 
                        United States
                     history that made room for the West, and the study of the history of that third
                    section. In his individual thinking Turner had attained to this point of view before ever he left 
                        Madison
                     to study at 
                        Baltimore
                    . Just how he was to work in Western history was not yet thoroughly clear to him. But
                    that was to come. He was, however, in his own mind already committed to a study of American history
                    in terms of its sections.
            The 
                        Baltimore
                     year of Turner (1888–89) introduced him to another trend in historical
                    writing—the investigation of phenomena within the framework of a limited jurisdiction,
                    either province or state. Herbert B. Adams put many graduate students on these
                    "state" or "province" topics. The cultivation of an interest in
                    these jurisdictional entities (without regard for the specific "internal" problems
                    worked upon by Adams's men) was indeed a healthy sign. Turner, as a seminarian,
                    cooperated with Adams in such work but took an early opportunity, after he had returned to 
                        Madison
                    , to reflect adversely upon research work in state history. He deprecated it. On what
                    grounds he did so is not exactly known, nor in detail, because he later mutilated his own manuscript
                    which set forth his opinions on these points. It would seem to be clear, however, that by the
                    mid-nineties he had reached the point where he thought one could write the history of a section
                    without having to know, item after item, the histories of the
                    several jurisdictions comprehended within the particular section being studied. The approach to be
                    followed involved, first, he thought, an analysis of the votes in Congress on leading bills and
                    policies, in terms of the multi-sectional origins of the congregated legislative policymakers. Next,
                    the "interests" of the  sections themselves
                    were to be inspected in terms of the broad economic, etc., underlying realities of the historic
                    moment. The concept of the section qua section was well known to Turner. It does
                    not seem that it ever occurred to him to question the reality of sections as such,
                    and so, secure in his belief, he planned and completed The Rise of the New West
                    (1906).
            It was the first of the sectional histories, and perforce covered but a limited block of time, since
                    it undertook to treat of all the then existing sections, 1819–1829. The point of singular
                    interest about this book, for the present discussion, is that Turner planned to write, and did write
                    of the history of sections, without much attending to the individual histories of the several states
                    and territories composing a given section. The truth of this proposition becomes apparent on a close
                    rereading of The Rise of the New West. There is not, in that book, a recognition
                    that state history as such had a principal creative and revelatory function in relation to sectional
                    history. This is not the place to enter into an extended discussion as to how Turner handled his
                    data in relation to the interior of a section, how he chose and how he excluded categories of facts.
                    It will be sufficient to say that, in the present writer's opinion, he daringly attempted
                    to write the history of a section by offering upon its historic course and character a set of
                    generalizations that were partially premature, because they left out of the researcher's
                    reckonings an entire order of significant facts.
            It may be, too, that Turner consciously and in good measure by-passed state history because in his
                    day the number of reliable, comprehensive state histories needed for his special years
                    (1819–1829) was far from large. Such would have been the case for the South and the West,
                    perhaps for other parts of the country, too. Whatever the explanations, however, the fact remains
                    that in the interest of a sectional treatment he minimized, in practice, the role of the states and
                    territories, as such, which together add up into a section. In other words, he undertook to write of
                    the politics in Congress, a Congress which represented the states in a federal Union or general
                    government, without giving due and proper weight to the special politics and special programs within
                    individual states. Some weight he gave here or there, and put it on this state or that. But as the
                    historian of a federal Union he seems, to the writer, consciously to have slighted the component
                    elements in  that Union, the confederated states. For him the
                    treatment of the sectional realities was the meaningful treatment.
            All the foregoing offers a contrast of the broadest character, where Buley's practice is
                    concerned. One could venture the remark that Turner's is a preliminary, and
                    Buley's is a mature, historiographical doctrine, as to states (and territories) in
                    relation to a Union. Buley, with abundant space at his disposal, with adequate materials for the
                    histories of states and territories to hand, and with an ingrained regard for each one of the
                    jurisdictions that falls within his ken, pays due and proper regard to these component elements. No
                    jurisdiction is omitted, none is skimpily treated. Each receives what would seem to be its fair
                    proportionate amount of attention. Thus the section he is studying is studied in terms of its parts
                    (jurisdictions) as well as in terms of its entirety. The respect that Buley has for these several
                    jurisdictions strengthens and enriches his volumes, giving them through and through a certain
                    firmness of substance and texture. Furthermore, Buley has shown the way for others. He demonstrates
                    how to put the pieces together in a convincing, organic fashion, so that the included data cohere in
                    easy, unforced ways.
            Now his treatment of these "State" problems may be examined. His second chapter
                    deals with "Two New States: Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    ." 
                        Ohio
                     (by 1815) has for some years been a state, so the territory to the west, Indiana, comes
                    under consideration. The territorial status is chronicled, the movement for Indiana's
                    statehood is outlined, attention being paid to the constitutional convention, its personnel and its
                    handiwork. The author traces the admission of the state into the Union, and the operations of
                    setting up the new state's government. The discussions are everywhere precise, well
                    particularized. A feeling of the special circumstances of the time and place is transmitted to the
                    reader. The history of the separation of 
                        Illinois
                     Territory is then given, and the transition to the status of statehood is carefully and
                    judiciously traced. Again may be noted the same precision, the same careful delicacy in generalizing
                    upon the 
                        Illinois
                     situation, which makes it 
                        Illinois
                     and no other set of localities, at this moment in time. Some interesting incidental
                    comparisons are given (p. 82) between early Indiana and early 
                        Illinois
                    , in respect to the two movements for statehood. With the end of the chapter before him,
                    the reader comes to the realization that he has followed the 
                    political fortunes of two forming commonwealths from territorial times to admission, and that the
                    author has skillfully and in a balanced fashion given him the particulars that count in relating
                    these segments of history. There is, by the way, no sense of condescension in dealing with the data,
                    no air of the half-apologetic as though to say, "All this is, of course, local history,
                    mere local history." The upshot of the narration is, that the reader learns the precise
                    content of the politics of the time.
            In Chapter IX, "Personal Politics and Republican Solidarity, 1815–1825,"
                    Buley covers the politics of the three states, 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and the Territory of 
                        Michigan
                    . With a good deal of skill and neatness he weaves together a narrative of particular
                    strands. Each jurisdiction is so dealt with as to convey to the reader the special quality of the
                    political life and political movement of that jurisdiction. The author's sure command of
                    his material enables him to generalize with insight and penetration. He points out the processes by
                    which "district" politics and personal politics give way to party politics, and he
                    emphasizes that for long years these states in their political concerns did not tie up with
                    congressional issues.
            In Chapter XI, "Political History, 1825–1840," Buley devotes one hundred
                    pages of narrative to recounting the political story of the Northwestern states and territories from
                    the election of Adams to that of Harrison, favorite son of the section. It is a long, difficult,
                    confused, chaotic, and mobile period, filled with cross-currents, eddies, and all manner of minor
                    surprises. Yet if the politics of the section are to be understood, these old-time confused and
                    chaotic political situations must be reconstructed, and if possible, must be interpreted as to their
                    meanings for those days. It took an immense effort, it took great patience. Buley was equal to these
                    claims on him. In turn he studied each state and territory, and brought out what was of importance
                    and significance in their politics. So it can be seen, in a slow phase-by-phase account, how
                    personal politics grow into party politics, and how at last, state issues (local in background)
                    become linked and connected with national issues. By the end of the period the weight of the
                    section, with good Whig electioneering techniques in vogue, had seated a son of the Old Northwest in
                    the White House.
            Referring to an earlier historian's work, Buley says "Dunn … saw
                    little else in the early history of Indiana besides  the slavery
                    issue." One can twist this remark around a little to assert, that what there is in the politics of early Indiana and her sister states and territories, Buley sees. He has isolated and straightened out its content and can tell with
                    definiteness what that content is. So have we of today arrived at a comprehension of old-time
                    political realities, which fifty years ago were probably for the most part unknown, and likely
                    enough, almost unsought for.
            These three chapters on politics which have been rapidly gone over combine to make a sterling
                    contribution in method. Thereby Buley shows that when one undertakes to write of the history of a
                    section, he needs to write of all the component parts of the section—each state, each
                    territory. As a result of this kind of analysis and treatment, the reader comes into possession of
                    historical knowledge that is sharply edged, well particularized, and free from doubtful
                    generalizations. The methodology that Buley exhibits here is a mature one, and marks a definite and
                    a long advance over the practice of Turner in 1906. Buley leaves for future sectional historians a
                    high standard of attainment toward which to aspire. But his practice will have, ought to have, a
                    stimulating influence on workers in state and local history everywhere. His work shows the value,
                    the utility of studies in local and state history, and how desirable it is that they be done well,
                    scientifically, when they are done at all. They need to be done reliably, not only because some
                    future synthesizer may use them for a work of large scope, but also because as particulars forming
                    part of the vast American historical panorama, they have their own unique value and unique interest
                    as such. They are worth attending to on their own account. Buley's pages reinforce this
                    lesson again and again. He ignores speculations or guesses, brushes away half-truths or premature
                    propositions, digs down and uncovers the actual data themselves. It is a powerful thrust of work.
            As a most helpful consequence of Buley's recognition of the jurisdictions, he finds
                    himself in possession of a very illuminating principle of arrangement. Since he makes use of this
                    principle more than once, it is patent that the historian is quite aware of what he is about. Now
                    for a case in point by way of illustration. In his Chapter XII, "Economic History,
                    1836–1840," the author takes up the subject of the distribution of the surplus
                    revenue. The law of June, 1836, provided for the  distribution to
                    the several states. Then, state by state, Buley relates how the states planned to use the promised
                        largesse. The order of the states that he follows is the order of admission to
                    the Union: 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                        Michigan
                    . This is also the order of the historic "maturity" of this series of
                    states, for 
                        Ohio
                     was now the most populous, and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , the least populous of the jurisdictions, was still a territory. Underneath the
                    particulars lies a latent appreciation of the frontier and its work. The frontier had passed beyond 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana, it still lingered in parts of 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Michigan
                    , while in 
                        Wisconsin
                     it was even then manifesting itself starkly and strong. The relative
                    "maturity" of these several jurisdictions, as to the programs and performances
                    they severally exhibited in canal building and in banking during these years, is in great detail
                    brought out, state by state, in Buley's discussions of what they proposed and what they
                    accomplished. And the well-rounded, informative accounts furnished by the author, make it possible
                    for the reader to compare the results in the states with each other, and to interpret the comparisons both in terms of the programs and administrations as
                    such, and also in terms of the nearness to or the remoteness from, an original frontier era, which
                    was an experience common to all of them. This principle of arrangement, the order of decreasing
                    social complexity, to give it a name (that is, the order from "old" 
                        Ohio
                     through 
                        Illinois
                    , and "young" 
                        Michigan
                     to the "infant" and unadmitted 
                        Wisconsin
                    ), is an order of arrangement that enables the thinking historian to extract new values
                    from the hallowed doctrine of the frontier. It is indeed putting that doctrine to work, to very good
                    purpose indeed. Chapter XIII, "Schools, Teachers, and Education," provides
                    additional illustrations which serve to show how the order of decreasing social complexity can be
                    used to excellent effect. (See the development of the topic, "Movement for public
                    schools," vol. II, pp. 348–369; and the topic, "Academies,"
                    vol. II, pp. 338–341.) Once again the reader is impressed by Buley's skill and
                    aptness in making meaningful arrangements of his facts.
            It may be that one principal error into which historians using the sectional pattern can fall is the
                    error of insufficiently heeding the fact of the interior heterogeneity of a
                    section, the fact that within its borders exist differing zones, differing belts,
                    differing "regions," which (by whatever name they may be called) effectually give
                    internal diversity to a  section. Against such an error Buley is
                    proof. His soundness as a guide follows as a consequence of his willingness to face fully the fact
                    of state (or territorial) particularism, political, etc., etc., and the fact that all the
                    jurisdictions composing a section have prime interest for that section's historian. Thus
                    conscious of diversity in the large, Buley with ease and heightened perceptiveness is aware of the
                    districts, the zones, the localities—shall we say—that comprise his section.
                    Fully to discuss Buley's admirable handling of the rich show of quite concrete
                    information on the localities of his section, information readily at his command, would require an
                    extended literary tour, but one which cannot be taken. Let it be observed here, however, that if
                    there be a historian of a section who exceeds Buley in grasp of and acquaintance with the
                    localities, the parts, the zones, and the belts of a section, then the writer of these lines will be
                    much taken by surprise. Where localities, districts, even neighborhoods are concerned, Buley has an
                    artist's feelings for the distinguishing differences, and a scientist's regard
                    for the facts of the locales themselves. In a historian these are rare endowments indeed.
            And so to come to a conclusion. Three-quarters of a century ago the scientific method in history was
                    brought to these shores and given harborage at the Johns Hopkins. Ideas of scientific history slowly
                    took root in the universities and colleges. Solid work came to be published by American-trained
                    historians, work that was a credit to the intellectual powers of Americans. These historians knew
                    their technical stock in trade, the scientific methods of history. And it seemed as though they
                    invariably used those methods in their work. But what if it should one day appear, when the scholars
                    of this and the next generation are done with examining Charles Beard and Channing and Rhodes, for
                    example, as they have already examined McMaster, that the earlier exponents of scientific methods in
                    history were not always thoroughly scientific? Surely, then, in the future, there will be some
                    revaluations in reputation. As literary figures they may still hold on, but as scientific scholars
                    worthy of credence, they may be adjudged as less than completely "scientific." The
                    future will tell the tale —one must wait for the reports to be rendered, the verdicts to
                    be lodged.
            The final, and in the light of the three-quarters of a century perspective, the most searching
                    observation about Buley's  work that can be offered
                    here in conclusion is that he has made large and unremitting efforts always to be the historian as
                    scientist. He took over the dogmas of the older men, his predecessors, and took them seriously. He
                    has used them in his work universally and so earns and must receive our respectful homages as an
                    historian who is scientific all of the time. Such men are rare, and so are their books. What a
                    satisfaction, then, to the aspiring members of the guild of historians, to today's uneasy
                    practitioners of Clio's craft, who ask themselves if all is now well inside the circle of
                    adepts, that this solid and epoch-marking historical work should have been awarded a Pulitzer Prize!
                    The prize was well bestowed, but in the awarding of it the judges, too, did themselves much honor,
                    since thereby they manifested that rather uncommon power of seeing a work truly great, at the moment
                    when it was set before them to pronounce upon.
         
         
         
            The Hoosier Politician of the 1840's
            
                    Roger H. Van Bolt*
               
                
            As the soil of Indiana produced corn and wheat, so the Hoosier neighborhood generated Whigs and
                    Democrats. The farmer and the politician alike anxiously hoped for a bountiful harvest in the fall,
                    whether it be grain or ballots. Both labored long to satisfy the demands of their respective crops,
                    and both had memories of bumper seasons and years of failure. Both put faith and hope in his god,
                    whether it be nature or the party, to provide that which his personal effort could not guarantee.
            The character of the Hoosier politician in the decade of the forties was molded by the world in which
                    he lived. He not only represented his county, state, or district: he was representative of it. As it
                    changed, so must he, to maintain his political availability. Uprooted from his environment and
                    replanted in 
                        Washington
                    , he often became an incongruous figure in his new locale.
            At home, he was much like his constituents in many ways. Since Indiana had not entirely passed from
                    its age of personal politics when voters were more often known as one of
                    "Noble's boys" or "
                        Tipton
                    's boys" rather than Whig or Democrat,1 the
                    common touch was often all important. Candidates doffed their ruffles at convention time, and they
                    were careful not to be labeled as among those who spent "too much time at the
                    'toilet' to suit … agrarian & leveling
                        notions."2 Their habits were in many cases copied from those of
                    their constituents. The 
                        Brookville
                    
                    American in 1845 reported that the governor, in his recent message, had spit
                    eighty-two times during the course of his speech.3 The use of plain "Jo
                    Wright" or the nickname "Tom, the tanner" [Henly] added to the common
                    touch. Drinking habits were usually determined in proportion to the strength of the "cold
                    water boys" in the constituency. 
                  
                     * Roger H. Van Bolt is director of the 
                                Illinois
                             Junior Historian of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Library, 
                                Springfield
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            . This article is a chapter of his Ph.D. dissertation at the University of 
                                Chicago
                            , 1950, written under the direction of Avery O. Craven.
                  
                     1 Adam A. Leonard, "Personal Politics in Indiana 1816 to
                            1840," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), XIX (1923), 1–56, 132–68, 241–61.
                  
                     2 Godlove S. Orth to Schuyler Colfax, 
                                Lafayette
                            , October 25, 1845, in J. Herman Schauinger (ed.), "The Letters of
                            Godlove S. Orth, Hoosier Whig," ibid., XXXIX (1943), 371, 377.
                  
                     3 As quoted in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana State Sentinel, January 2, 1845.
               
                     The personal touch of the "old hoss" greeting
                    and the back slapping often puzzled the staid old New Englanders visiting 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1845. Indeed, even the character of the legislature shocked some of its own members.
                    Young George Julian, already reading William E. Channing, wrote to Isaac Julian: "[The
                    legislature] … is composed of the most unthinking and uncultivated dunces or the most
                    reckless and unprincipled demagogues. The Senate is much worse than the House, a majority of the
                    members being perfect animals…. What a Burlesque on republican institutions!"4
            
            Indiana representatives in the national Congress during the decade 1840–1850 illustrate
                    further the nature of the Hoosier politician and likewise reflect the character of the population of
                    the state. Only two out of fifteen representatives had been born in Indiana. Three were natives of 
                        Kentucky
                     and four were from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    . Only one had come from New 
                        England
                    . Yet in their congressional speeches, these men acted as true sons of
                    Indiana—they pled for the interests of their districts or sections as representatives of
                    the West.
            The politician of Indiana usually earned his living as a lawyer. In many cases he had learned the
                    intricacies of politics on the court circuit where he had observed the people, the land, and the
                    culture of the district and had swapped tales of experiences with his legal companions, thus adding
                    to his store of political knowledge. Frequently, the courthouse crowds became grass-roots meetings
                    of a sort. A few men drifted into politics from the farm, the store, or medical
                    practice—some of the more versatile had tried several professions. Schoolteaching to
                    medicine to law to politics was possible in this changing society.
            If the nature of the electorate conditioned its representatives, it also limited their sphere of
                    action. The Indiana farmer firmly believed in his own practical-mindedness, born out of his own
                    experiences. His vision was limited by the isolation of his world, and by the impact of his trials
                    and tribulations in establishing a home in the wilderness. Although the frontier was passing, one
                    editor noted its effects when he wrote: "The great mass of her [Indiana's]
                    citizens are democratic in their feelings and habits. The old pioneers who struggled with the 
                  
                     4 George to Isaac Julian, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , January 8, 1846, Julian MSS, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     savages for a home in the western wilds have not yet
                    disappeared; and they give tone and character to this generation."5
            
            The politician's task was to meet the demands of the electorate. Unfortunately for the
                    former, the local problems of an Indiana farmer often required national solutions. More
                    specifically, a mudhole in the National Road or a snag in the 
                        Ohio
                     River was a very real matter to certain Hoosiers, and it must have been difficult for
                    them to comprehend that the filling in of the hole and the removal of the snag were constitutional
                    questions. The same could be said for problems concerning land, money, and prices. In a like manner,
                    the Scots-Irish squatter must have been hard put to envisage the relationship between fertile land
                    in 
                        Oregon
                     and British diplomacy, although since he had fought the Indians for a home, he might
                    not have been reluctant to engage the British for the same reason. In general, the people of Indiana
                    were concerned with local matters. The politician, often returning to Indiana from across the
                    mountains with a bag full of legislative remedies compounded to act as national sedatives, found
                    that what his constituency wanted was a cure for a local pain.
            The extent of illiteracy in Indiana also exerted an effect on the Hoosier politician. In the decade
                    1840–1850, a few residents of the state were conscious of the almost unique position of
                    their state and its educational policy. One editor pled with his readers: "Tell it not on
                    the other side of the Allegheny mountains that there are in the State of Indiana, 40,000 adults, and
                    50 or 60,000 between the age of 5 and 21 years, that can neither read or write. There are fourteen
                    States in this union ahead of this in point of education. It is alarming to reflect that only about
                    one half of the 300,000, or upwards, of those between the age of five and twenty one attend school
                    at all."6 Caleb Mills, a Yankee schoolmaster transplanted to 
                        Wabash
                     College, led the battle for common free schools in the state. Beginning in 1846, he
                    attempted to arouse the citizenry with a series of addresses to the legislature. In the first of
                    these he sarcastically pointed out to the members of that body: "a humiliating fact, that
                        one-seventh part of the adult population of a great and flourishing State is
                    not able to read the charter of her liberties, or the votes they cast in the exercise of their
                    election franchise! … There are gentlemen on this floor representing rich and populous
                    counties, who perhaps never 
                  
                     5 New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana, Democrat, August 29, 1845.
                  
                     6
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            , Indiana Register, April 8, 1847.
               
                     dreamed that a sixth, or a fourth, or a third of their constituents could not read the record of their
                    legislative wisdom, nor peruse the eloquent speeches delivered in these halls and spread over the
                    State at the expense of the commonwealth."7 Not until 1852 was the
                    success of this mission assured with the establishment of the first free schools.
            Even if no other implications are drawn, the illiteracy of the Hoosiers cannot be discarded as a
                    limiting factor to the modus operandi of the Indiana politician of the period. At
                    the same time, it might well have given wider berth to the demagogic spellbinder so common in an
                    opportunistic near-frontier society.
            In general, these were some of the prevailing winds of the Indiana political climate affecting
                    equally those in or out of power. All parties and politicians had to set their sails accordingly
                    either to be pushed along or to tack against the breezes.
            With the parties, there was the problem of tactics on the local political battle scene. These
                    maneuvers were complicated by the necessity of fitting the situation into the grand strategy that
                    emanated from the national party councils. Of course, the resulting complexities were not unique to
                    Indiana; they are found in any political organization that attempts to bind together a bundle of
                    divergent interests into a workable combination.
            Availability alone was not enough to capture a plurality of votes; there remained the matter of
                    political issues—the weapons of the campaign. The politicians seeking to win the elusive
                    maiden fair—the electorate—tried, whenever possible, to fight with issues of
                    their own design. Not infrequently, they found it was their opponents who selected the weapons, and
                    on occasion, both sides were forced to employ the missiles furnished by the voters.
            Whig party leaders were filled with stratagems for solving the electoral riddle; one of the more
                    important was the appeal to section and class. One Whig politician stated the problem and a possible
                    solution as he saw it when he wrote in 1845: "In this State, we have various phases of
                    public opinion; the enterprising Yankee of Northern Indiana, despises the sluggish and inanimate
                    North Carolinian, Virginian, and Kentuckian 
                  
                     7
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana State Journal, December 8, 1846, reprinted in
                            Charles W. Moores, "Caleb Mills and the Indiana School System," Indiana
                            Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1895-), III (1905), 401–02.
               
                     in the Southern part of the State, while the latter in return
                    regarding the 'patriarchal institution' as the direct gift of God to man,
                    looks upon the freeman who toils with his own hands and proclaims a belief in the patriotic
                    sentiments of his fathers, as a fanatic and a fool. So on the question of State policy, one section
                    is Improvement, the other Anti—one portion is willing and able to submit to a taxation
                    sufficient to redeem our ruined credit—another portion, who have no avenue to market for
                    their produce, will not yet submit to anything of the kind. In fact they are unable to bear their
                    present burthen. Again the 
                        Wabash
                     & 
                        Erie
                    —& 
                        Wabash
                     & 
                        Ohio
                     Canal questions, the different grants of land & their proper disposition, are
                    intricate and troublesome questions, upon which Democracy must act—and on which they will
                    stand. These are a few instances of the diversity of opinion that cannot be reconciled by any address, and no one universal policy should be adopted by our party in the next
                    campaign. Instead of drawing an elevated line, unbending and unchangeable, and battling to raise
                    public opinion to its level, we must come down a little, slacken the stern rule when necessary, meet
                    public opinion, even if only midway at the desired goal—in a word, we must
                    'stoop to conquer.' This, I confess, is not, high-strung Whig doctrine, but
                    the rising generation of young & ardent Whigs, if ever they desire to participate in the
                    honors and emoluments of their country, must deviate, for a time at least from the track, so often
                    trod, and that so inevitably leads to defeat…. every local prejudice or sectional
                    jealousy must be appeased and brought to operate in our favor."8
            
            This appraisal is not all-encompassing in its scope, yet certain phrases and words ring a familiar
                    note in the realm of political controversy. "Enterprise and sluggishness";
                    "patriarchal institutions and free men"; "improvements and avenues to
                    market"; "taxation and ruined credit"—all these carry with
                    them deeper connotations than do local differences of opinion. The fact that the interplay of these
                    conflicting ideas reached across state boundaries added to their complexities. Furthermore, the
                    necessity of appeasing the local prejudices and sectional jealousies required more than local
                    measures. This complicated the problem for the party at the national as well as the local level. The
                    views of the Whig stalwart expressed above apparently represented a greater political dilemma than
                    even 
                  
                     8 Orth to Colfax, 
                                Lafayette
                            , August 16, 1845, in Schauinger, "The Letters of Godlove S. Orth,
                            Hoosier Whig," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIX,
                            367–68.
               
                     he realized—he saw the fundamental problems that
                    faced the people of his state in a moral and social context, but his solution to them was merely
                    political appeasement. There was room for all in this Whig's political home.
            Three years later, however, one Hoosier editor illustrated the uncomfortableness of the Whig position
                    for some of its members: "The electoral ticket—what a piece of patch work. There
                    is Holloway of 
                        Wayne
                    , as arrant an old federalist as ever burned blue lights during the last war. In him
                    those whigs who go with Corwin and Abbey Kelly, Cole Smith and Garrison, the half-breeds and abolitionists, will find a fitting stool pigeon for their
                    'moral treasons.' The availability whigs —the men who strain at a
                    gnat and swallow a camel—will find in such men as Orton, the contingent elector, a man
                    who can drum up army recruits. Fish, flesh and foul are all combined in this Whig salamagundi. They
                    are all things to all men.—Each Whig elector and contingent, should wear in the coming
                    campaign a Joseph's coat (which we are told was of many colors,) as a distinguishing
                    badge of and guide board to whig principles!"9
            
            Some Whigs were thus straining at the leash either to pull away from the party mass or to rid
                    themselves of those discordant groups with whom they could no longer dwell in comfort. Near the end
                    of the decade, the mortar that had held the conglomerate together showed signs of crumbling. George
                    W. Julian, erstwhile Whig, wrote in a letter to the National Era: "There
                    is a moral in every political duty. I am willing to acknowledge the reasonable claims of party, but
                    its claims must be reasonable. I repudiate the idea that my right to think and act for myself on
                    political matters is utterly gone the moment my party shall issue its decree…. Shall I
                    allow a set of men like myself to say to me, 'You are a Whig and we have determined upon
                    the course Whigs ought to pursue.' "10
            
            Although Julian was concerned with his moral obligations in the political sphere in the light of the
                    antislavery cause, his brother-in-law, H. G. Finch, urged him to form a coalition with the Democracy
                    of his district and justified his changed position thus: "I have become about half a
                    democrat in my principles, as recent reflection has convinced me that some of their measures are
                    more for the interest of the mechanical and laboring 
                  
                     9Michigan City, Indiana, News, February 4, 1848,
                            quoted in the 
                                
                                    La Ports County Whig
                                
                            , February 19, 1848.
                  
                     10 Grace Julian Clarke, George W. Julian (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1923), 77. This is volume XI of the Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916-).
               
                     classes than those of their opponents—and their views
                    on the tariff is one of them."11.
            Within the party framework, there was even a broader cleavage than that caused by antislavery. In
                    1849, Julian himself was to see this. He explained his position when he complained that Free Soil
                    men should no longer fasten themselves to the Whigs as in the past. They had been blinded to the
                    encroachments of the slave power in the party. Furthermore, he added, the Free Soil element had
                    allowed itself to be pitted, Whig against Democrat, on such issues as the bank and the tariff. There
                    was the intense desire to maintain the national party organization at all hazards even after
                    "most of its leading doctrines have been swept away by the lapse of time and the progress
                    of events." Julian, former Whig, was opposed to the bank, was a low tariff advocate, was
                    against the distribution of the proceeds from the sale of public lands, and was a proponent of the 
                        Buffalo
                     platform on internal improvements.12
            
            The national views of the Whig party did not coincide with those of its component parts; in fact, to
                    some at least, the national policy seemed actually to be a handicap. One party leader wrote:
                    "we cannot disguise the fact that a majority of the voters of Ind[iana] are against us,
                    especially on general policy. And this brings me to say that we must avoid as much as possible all
                    merely national politics."13 On the other hand, failure to stress the
                    national policy could also be disastrous, as evidenced in the rather famous congressional campaign
                    in 1847, when Robert Dale Owen was defeated by Elisha Embree. The former explained his defeat by the
                    fact that he was attacked with different fringe issues in each neighborhood, in a typical smear
                    campaign. He frankly admitted his failure to stress national political issues as a strong
                    contributing factor to his defeat.14
            
            To sum up the Whig strategy—it was characterized by appeasement and availability, and by
                    the tendency to cling to the more slender threads of party loyalty rather than to project itself
                    positively in a dynamic sense. The energy expended 
                  
                     11 H. G. Finch to George W. Julian, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , December 2, 1848, in Julian MSS.
                  
                     12 George W. Julian to G. C. Starbuck, 
                                Centerville
                            , June, 1849, in ibid.
                  
                     13 Orth to Colfax, 
                                Lafayette
                            , January 27, 1846, in Schauinger, "The Letters of Godlove S. Orth,
                            Hoosier Whig," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIX, 379.
                  
                     14
                            
                                Princeton
                            , Indiana, Clarion, August 7, 1847, quoted in New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana, Democrat, August 19, 1847, and 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana State Sentinel, August 21, 1847.
               
                     in the task of maintaining itself robbed the party of the
                    necessary power to battle its adversaries. Richard W. Thompson noted this dissipation of its
                    potential force when he wrote John Crittenden: "But you know the disadvantages under which
                    we must labor, when, instead of attacking the enemy … we are compelled to spend our time
                    to keep our own party together. You will see therefore that we can promise nothing."15
            
            The Democracy of Indiana was also faced with the political realities of life during the decade. It,
                    however, had one advantage of no mean proportion: the party was in power locally, if not nationally,
                    much of the time. In a sense, its problem resolved itself, in many instances, to fighting for the
                    reins of party control.
            Factionalism was a product to a large degree of personal ambition and a fight over party control. Yet
                    there were other factors that made for strife within the party. One of these was the sectional and
                    local character of party organization. Along the 
                        Ohio
                     River, urban centers formed the nuclei of party baronies. These centers themselves, as
                    often as not, were Whig strongholds, yet by linking themselves with the farmers in the neighboring
                    counties, the Democratic politicians of the towns were frequently able to control the districts. The
                    few early letters of Jesse Bright to the politicians and editors of the small back-country
                    communities seem to indicate this fact. The court circuit furnished the lawyer-politicians an
                    additional opportunity continually to mend the political fences of the area. The 
                        Wabash
                     Valley formed another such area controlled by the lawyer-politicians of
                            
                  Terre Haute, Lafayette, Bloomington
               , and 
                        Vincennes
                    . Finally, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     politicians controlled the central domain of the Democracy.
            Thus the combinations became geographical in character so that the 
                        Wabash
                     Valley, the 
                        Ohio
                     River counties, and the central Indiana plains became party units of power as well as
                    social and economic entities. Control within the party hinged upon the success or failure of
                    combination. The strategy of the politician and the merchant of the older sections of the state were
                    in some respects similar—both desired to strengthen their ties with the rich plains of
                    central Indiana.16
            
            
               
                  15 "Letter of a Conservative Whig of 1848 [Richard W. Thompson to
                        John J. Crittenden]," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXI (1935), 252.
               
                  16 A frequently applied division of political parties in the state has
                        been to use the National Road as a man-made point of cleavage. It would seem that the validity
                        of this could be questioned. This highway not only divides a political unit north and south, but
                        parallels to a rather startling degree the rugged upland of the state. As it has been pointed
                        out in "The
            
            
            Factionalism also grew out of the enviable position of party success. An editorial squabble which
                    arose between the Indiana State Sentinel, the Indiana Democrat,
                    and the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    
                    Beacon in 1845 illustrated well the many facets that this type of factionalism
                    exposed. When the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     newspaper first questioned Democratic appointments, it was accused of supporting the
                    "junto." Then a competing journal was established in 
                        Indianapolis
                     to support Lewis Cass for the presidency; the State Sentinel took
                    grave offense and pled that there was no room for another Democratic newspaper in the capital city.
                    The tariff policy next became an issue, mainly as an attack on the governor. Countercharges were
                    then hurled by the insurgents at the "Old Junto." The 
                        Washington
                    
                    Union entered the dispute shortly thereafter and urged the Sentinel to drive the "partisans" out. When the legal advertising of the
                    state sinking fund was thrown to the new Democrat, the cry of "Bank
                    Organ" was raised. Gradually the journalistic bombardment ceased, and the columns were
                    devoted again to other offenders of the Democratic ideals. Incidents such as these, however,
                    illustrate, it would seem, the dangers arising out of the division of political spoils. Not a unique
                    phenomenon, this was more the problem of the Democrats who at least had gained enough plunder over
                    which to fight.17
            
            The party battles of the Democrats, however complex, centered also about the conflict of leadership
                    and personal ambition. Rather than a hand-to-hand encounter of the Democratic infantry, it was more
                    a battle of the party generals and their aides. These battles shaped the nature of the party as a
                    whole and to a degree determined its course.
            The major divisions within the Democratic party during the period were led by James Whitcomb, Jesse
                    Bright, Edward Hannegan, and Joseph Wright. The elements that went into 
                  Indiana Scene in the 1840's," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XLVII (1951), 333–56, the factors of terrain, soil, and drainage,
                            as well as the rate of settlement, brought about diversity in the character of the state. As
                            the migration of the forties brought about a change in the pattern of population, it may
                            well have carried political change in its movement. The farmers of central Indiana were from
                            the same democratic corridor to the south. Many seem to have been Democrats whether they
                            came from 
                                Ohio
                             and 
                                Pennsylvania
                             or 
                                Kentucky
                            . The southern Indiana politician was probably well aware of the growing
                            importance of central Indiana, politically as well as economically. The political rule of
                            the older sections of the state was undoubtedly challenged. On a much lesser scale than its
                            national counterpart, the older elements of the Democracy of Indiana were confronted by the
                            problem of adjustment brought about by unequal growth.
                  
                     17
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana State Sentinel, March 27; August 20, 23, 27;
                            September 3, 24; October 22; December 18, 1845.
               
                     the political careers of these leaders were representative of
                    the various aspects of political behavior, collected together under the banner of the Democracy. No
                    single one of these men was a composite of the Hoosier Democrat—rather, the interests and
                    background of each formed a segment of the whole. They require individual study to throw light on
                    the larger stage of state politics.
            James Whitcomb was the governor of Indiana from 1843 to 1849. Although he was born in 
                        Vermont
                    , he was brought to southern 
                        Ohio
                     by his farmer parents at an early age. Following in his father's footsteps,
                    he became a struggling small farmer, but his career soon turned to law, and he was admitted to the
                    bar in 
                        Kentucky
                    . He then moved to 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, where within a few years he seems to have become prosecuting attorney and
                    state senator. By 1836 he had been appointed to the post of Commissioner of the General Land Office
                    by President Andrew Jackson. The political whirlwind of 1840 carried him back to 
                        Terre Haute
                     and law, and three years later he became the governor of the state.
                    Whitcomb's political availability had been determined to a significant extent by his
                    opposition to the Mammoth Internal Improvements Bill of 1836. By 1843, the state was in the
                    financial doldrums, the canal works were halted, and its creditors were knocking at the door.
                    Whitcomb by now had escaped the anathema of internal improvement support His pamphlet attacking the
                    Whig tariff policy in 1843 was widely distributed and became the standard text of the Indiana
                    Democrats; protection became unpopular in Indiana. By 1845, Whitcomb was a candidate for the Senate,
                    but he was halted by Jesse D. Bright, another rising politician.18
            
            It was rather natural for Baynard Hall to caricature mercilessly this rather strange politician as
                    Insidias B. Cutswell, for Whitcomb must have seemed an unusual man even to his neighbors. A poor
                    farmer turned politician, he did not quite fit into the rough and tumble politics of the day. His
                    contemporaries were impressed by the fact that he was "a cold—old
                        batchalor."19 Well-groomed, frugal, widely read, an amateur
                    musician, and an inveterate user of snuff, he seemingly was to many the gentleman in
                    politics—a respected even if 
                  
                     18 William W. Woollen, Biographical and Historical
                                Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883), 80 ff.
                  
                     19 Charles H. Test to [Miles Murphy], Centreville, Indiana, December
                            16, 1845, in Test MSS, Correspondence Book, 1840–1845, Indiana University
                            Library, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     cold bachelor.20 His political acumen seems
                    to have been that he not only waited for the tide to turn but as the Hall caricature portrayed it,
                    "he turned a little before the tide."21
            
            Charles 
                        Butler
                    , New 
                        England
                     financier, described Whit-comb thus: "He is one of the most cautious and timid
                    men in the world; at the same time he is, I think, entirely honest and would be glad to have right
                        done."22
            
            To those of the party who sought a safe and reluctant leadership, the broad appeal of James Whitcomb
                    seems to have matched their political desires.
            In Edward A. Hannegan, the Indiana Democrats found a political leader of a more vociferous nature. He
                    added the western touch to Hoosier politics. Hannegan was born in 
                        Ohio
                     and was educated in 
                        Kentucky
                    . His alma mater, Transylvania University, a citadel of education in the West early in
                    the century, provided him with an ample background in the classical tradition which he called upon
                    frequently in his oratory. Among his fellow students were Jefferson Davis of 
                        Mississippi
                    , David R. Atchison of 
                        Missouri
                    , George W. Jones of 
                        Iowa
                    , and Solomon W. Downs of Lousiana. Later these men were all colleagues in the Senate of
                    the 
                        United States
                    .
            Soon after graduation from college, Hannegan came to Indiana. Steeped in the Jacksonian politics of
                    the courts and the state legislature by the early thirties, Hannegan became a member of Congress. He
                    soon was a champion of his section for pensions and lands. As one Whig editor in Indiana put it, his
                    stump speeches back in Indiana seemed to fly off in the deeds and exploits of General Andrew
                        Jackson.23 The less colorful MartinVanBuren afforded him fewer opportunities
                    to display his skill. The Whig victory in 1840 had brought dark days for the Indiana Democrats, but
                    by 1843, the party of Jackson was able to elect Hannegan to the 
                        United States
                     Senate, and the fiery orator of the 
                        Wabash
                     was riding the crest of the wave.
            
               
                  20 Whitcomb was supposed to have carried a nightshirt with him on the
                        circuit, which aroused one innkeeper to battle when he took it to be a reflection on the
                        cleanliness of his hostelry. Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches,
                        91.
               
                  21 Baynard E. Hall, The New Purchase, ed. James A.
                        Woodburn (
                            Princeton
                        , 
                            New Jersey
                        , 1916), 274.
               
                  22
                        
                            Butler
                         to Wife, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , November 29, 1845, in G. L. Prentiss, The Union Theological
                        Seminary (Asbury Park, 
                            New Jersey
                        , 1899), 455.
               
                  23
                        
                     
                                La Porte
                             County Whig, May 6, 1840, quoted in Frankie I. Jones, "Edward A.
                        Hannegan" (Master's thesis, Department of History, The University of 
                            Chicago
                        , 1940), 14.
            
            
            It would be difficult to label Hannegan a party stalwart, in the organizational sense; rather, he was
                    a sectional partisan. His election as reported by the press of the opposition would seem to indicate
                    his popular appeal: "It will be far from displeasing to the great mass of the people, who
                    only look to the incumbents for an honest discharge of duty. The extreme leaders
                    of both parties will probably feel a little sore … he is more a
                    People's Man than his defeated competitors, and will make up, by securing the popular
                    approval, what he lacks in the endorsement of party leaders."24
            
            Hannegan's exploits in the Senate, for they had an element of daring, were filled with an
                    emotional appeal which made him amazingly popular throughout the West. Impetuous and flamboyant,
                    Hannegan was to fade quickly when other politicians in the state and nation decided to play the game
                    with new rules emphasizing party rather than personality, thus limiting Hannegan's
                    opportunity to use his particular talents.
            While Hannegan was hotly debating the position of the West on the floor of the Senate, Jesse D.
                    Bright seems to have been in the capitol cloak rooms attending to party matters. As one Whig
                    expressed it, "Mr. Bright has been rather a business than a speaking member of the
                        Senate."25
            
            This Hoosier Democrat's rise in the state and national party was meteoric. His
                    qualifications for political leadership were law and physical strength, the latter of which shows
                    the more interesting side of Senator Bright. As a youth he was reputed to have been one of the
                    healthiest and strongest men in the hustling 
                        Ohio
                     River town of 
                        Madison
                    , and he was not reluctant to test his manly prowess. Bright never outgrew the arrogant
                    and overbearing attitude of his youth. He was always prepared to flex his political muscles and he
                    was unable to tolerate any show of opposition, especially if it occurred within the Democracy. One
                    of his contemporaries described him thus: "he classed every man as foe who would not do his
                    bidding, and made personal devotion to himself the test of Democracy."26
            
            Jesse Bright was a probate judge at the age of twenty-two and ten years later he was a 
                        United States
                     Senator. Politics 
                  
                     24
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            . Indiana, 
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Express as cited in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana State Sentinel, February 6, 1843, in Jones,
                            "Edward A. Hannegan," 19.
                  
                     25 Oliver H. Smith, Early Indiana Trials and
                            Sketches (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1858), 373.
                  
                     26 Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches,
                            223.
               
                     became his ruling passion. Appointed 
                        United States
                     Marshal for Indiana at the close of theVanBuren administration, he had an opportunity
                    to build his political fences over the entire state. This effort resulted in his occupying the
                    Lieutenant Governor's chair in 1843. Two years later Bright was senator. To many of the
                    citizenry, his elevation to this high office was a surprise, and to others a shock.27
            
            Jesse Bright had thrust himself on the center of the political stage as a leader of the young
                    Democracy. The tactics of this politician were rather simple, being based on loyalty to Jesse
                    Bright. As Oliver H. Smith put it: "Nature has done much for him, and he has done much for
                        himself."28
            
            The rival of Jesse Bright for the leadership of the Democratic party in Indiana for almost a
                    generation was Joseph A. Wright. The son of a poor farmer who had emigrated from western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to the White River district, he was a self-made man. His struggles to obtain an
                    education at the state university were legendary by the time of his death. After two years there, he
                    studied law and was licensed to practice before he had reached the age of twenty. His political
                    apprenticeship was served in the state legislature, and by 1843, Wright was in Congress. In 1849, he
                    was elected governor.29
            
            Jo Wright was, according to his contemporaries, a capable stump speaker in a day when oratory was a
                    prime political asset. His allusions to the classics when he was fresh from college and still filled
                    with recollections of them were interesting even later to such men as Robert Dale Owen, who reported
                    one of Wright's early speeches.30
            
            He seems to have been less popular with the party leaders than with members. A partial explanation
                    may be found in his political appeal. Wright, the Methodist leader and temperance advocate, must
                    have been viewed with a jaundiced eye by the less temperate Hannegan. As the scholarly farmer, he
                    was continually the target for the barbs of his opponents; yet he did command respect as an
                    intelligent campaigner. His religious attitude, although flaunted about somewhat, did rally
                    supporters about his political banner. His geographical avail 
                  
                     27 J. H. Bradley to Samuel Judah, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , December 7, 1845, in Judah MSS, Indiana University Library, 
                                Bloomington
                            . Bradley tiraded to his fellow politician on the Whig support that had been a
                            factor in Bright's success. 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana State Sentinel, December 9, 1846.
                  
                     28 Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 373.
                  
                     29 Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches,
                            94–103.
                  
                     30 Robert Dale Owen, "Recallings from a Public
                            Life," Soribner's Monthly (22 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1850–1881), XV (1877–1878), 260–61.
               
                     ability was also to be considered. At home in the heart of the
                    rapidly growing and prosperous 
                        Wabash
                     region, Wright had a fine opportunity to wield his power in the Democracy of the state.
                    Jo Wright was representative of the factions in the party that included churchgoers, and those who
                    were conscious of a need for moral reform as well as political betterment. Jesse Bright was
                    determined that Joseph Wright should not gain a foothold in the Democracy.
            This quartet—Whitcomb, Hannegan, Bright, and Wright —politicians all, although
                    not always in harmony, did chant the same tune: the unterrified Democracy. Dissonance came through
                    conflicting interpretation in regard to the proportions of the individual role.
            Each of these politicians represented more than personal ambition as evidenced by factionalism; they
                    reflected the political, social, and economic as well as cultural sentiments of their
                    constituencies. The task of these party chieftains was to gather up these complexities in a bundle
                    that would represent the political will of the Indiana Democrats. Fortunately for the politicians,
                    they themselves, as well as the electorate, were in common agreement on many a political concept or
                    problem. The completed result of the labor accomplished in the party councils was the Democratic
                    doctrine as adapted to the political environment of Indiana.
            In a federal union of states, where each one of them projects its political will through its
                    representatives in the central legislature as its share in determining the course of the general
                    government, it seems necessary to consider first of all the component parts of the Union: in this
                    instance, the state of Indiana. This discussion of the Hoosier politician has dealt with those
                    ingredients which seem to have some bearing on his political characteristics in the hope that they
                    may lead to a better understanding of his course of action in national affairs. The Hoosier in 
                        Washington
                     was as aware of the attitudes of the citizenry back across the mountains in Indiana as
                    it in turn was interested in his political maneuvers in the capital. It was this interaction between
                    the representative and the represented as well as between Indiana and the Union which became a part
                    of the federal process. It was the degree of mutual satisfaction resulting from the relationship
                    which measured the success or failure of the federal process.
            It is necessary to consider next the role of the Hoosier politician in 
                        Washington
                     and his contribution as a link in the chain of government.
         
         
         
            Literature and History: The Early Novels of Edward Eggleston
            
                    Robert W. Johannsen*
               
                
            In 1900, Edward Eggleston, newly-elected President of the American Historical Association, urged his
                    colleagues to abandon the traditional "drum and trumpet" history and to turn their
                    attention to the "new history," the history of the people. Hailing Thomas B.
                    Macaulay as the greatest historical writer of the nineteenth century and Macaulay's
                    famous third chapter as a model for future historians, Eggleston denied that "history is
                    dead politics and politics living history." History, he maintained, should be a record of
                    life. Following the examples of the great classical historians, Herodotus and Thucydides, writers of
                    history have placed too much emphasis upon wars and battles. "We can not always cover our
                    pages with gore," Eggleston declared. "It is the object of history to cultivate
                    this out of man; to teach him the wisdom of diplomacy, the wisdom of avoidance—in short,
                    the fine wisdom of arbitration, that last fruit of human experience." Eggleston
                    optimistically foresaw the final achievement of this ideal, a recognition among historians of the
                    "new history," which he defined at one point as a keen interest "in the
                    little details of life." History, he thought, would embody his ideal in the time to come.
                    "When the American Historical Association shall assemble in the closing week a hundred
                    years hence, there will be, do not doubt it, gifted writers of the history of the
                    people…. We shall have the history of culture, the real history of men and
                        women."1
            
            These views marked the culmination of an active career as both a writer of fiction and as a writer of
                    history. Although his views stand today as one of the first expressions of the need for social
                    history, the ideas were not new ones to Eggleston. For nearly thirty years, in his novels and in his
                    historical works, Eggleston had attempted to portray the "new history." As a
                    result, he has earned a place in American historiography alongside John Bach McMaster as a pioneer
                    in social and cultural 
                  
                     * Robert W. Johannsen is a doctoral candidate and teaching fellow in
                            American history at the University of 
                                Washington
                            , Seattle, 
                                Washington
                            .
                  
                     1 Edward Eggleston, "The New History," Annual Report of the American Historical Association, 1900 (2 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1901), I, 35–47.
               
                     history. In the field of American literature, he is recognized
                    as a precursor of the "realism" of the latter nineteenth century and as one of the
                    first writers to popularize the West in fiction. The development of these ideas in his novels led
                    him to bring the relationship between literature and history into sharper focus. Lastly,
                    Eggleston's appreciation for native dialect and folk speech has brought him repute as an
                    American philologist.
            Eggleston's "new history" and its relation to the function of literature
                    was first expressed in his early novels, the so-called "Western" novels, written
                    between 1871 and 1888. It will be the purpose of this paper to trace the development of this concept
                    through these early novels.2
            
            Eggleston's own background played an important part in shaping his literary and historical
                    beliefs. In later years, he attributed his tendency to write social history to the rapid change in
                    environment experienced as a child and as a young man.3 The son of a prosperous
                    lawyer, Eggleston was born in 1837 in the small 
                        Ohio
                     River town of 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana. His father, Joseph Cary Eggleston, was a native of 
                        Amelia County
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    , and a graduate of William and Mary College. His dislike for slavery, coupled with a
                    desire to practice law in a free state, led him to Indiana. 
                        Vevay
                     had been settled early in the century by a colony of French-speaking Swiss; by 1837,
                    the Swiss no longer formed a predominant part of the population, but their influence remained
                    strong. In this town, where English and French were spoken side by side, Edward spent his early
                    boyhood; here he first became conscious of linguistic differences.
            When Edward was nine years of age, his father died. In the ensuing years, Edward made numerous
                    excursions into backwoods Indiana, visiting relatives and coming into contact 
                  
                     2 These novels, with dates of first publication, are The
                                Hoosier School-Master, A Novel (1871); The End of the World, A Love
                                Story (1872); The Mystery of Metropolisville (1873); The Circuit Rider: A Tale of the Heroic Age (1874); Roxy (1878);
                                The Hoosier School-Boy (1883); and The Graysons, A Story
                                of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (1888). The latter two have not been considered in this paper because
                            they were written after Eggleston had made the transition to historical writing. A
                            discussion of Eggleston's novels, but without reference to these historical
                            aspects, may be found in John T. Flanagan, "The Novels of Edward
                            Eggleston," College English (
                                Chicago
                            , 1939-), V (1944), 250–254.
                  
                     3 Edward Eggleston, "Formative Influences," Forum (103 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1886–1940), X (1890), 290; "Edward Eggleston: An
                            Interview," Outlook (165 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1870–1935), LV (1897), 433.
               
                     for the first time with the primitive manners and speech of the
                    Hoosiers. By 1851, his mother had remarried and the family moved to the larger southern Indiana
                    towns, first New 
                        Albany
                     and then 
                        Madison
                    . In 1854, Edward left home, partly to relieve family pressure, to spend a year with his
                    father's relatives in 
                        Virginia
                    . The change of environment from the active, energetic life in 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, to the relatively slow, aristocratic life of the Upper South was an education
                    in itself for Edward Eggleston. Although he remained in 
                        Virginia
                     for nearly a year, he was never quite happy there. Slavery, at its best in 
                        Virginia
                     at this time, displeased him, as did the complacent attitude of his relatives towards
                    religion. Frontier Methodism had, by this time, taken complete control of Eggleston. Upon his return
                    to Indiana, he resolved to enter the ministry and for some months after his return he was employed
                    as a Bible Agent. Eggleston attacked his new duties with such vigor that by the early part of 1856,
                    his health, always frail, had completely broken down.
            In 1856, Eggleston again left Indiana, this time heading westward, in an attempt to restore his
                    health. His journey led him to the boisterous frontier communities of 
                        Minnesota
                     Territory, where he mingled with land speculators, gamblers, and frontier politicians,
                    all eager to share in the easy profits of the land boom. A few months in 
                        Minnesota
                     sufficiently restored Eggleston's health. After an abortive attempt to reach 
                        Kansas
                    , where he intended to participate in the slavery struggle, Eggleston returned to
                    southern Indiana. Six months as a Methodist circuit rider again proved ruinous to his health. In
                    1858, he was back in 
                        Minnesota
                    , where he lived for the next nine years. Although he found steady employment in the new
                    state as a pastor to several small churches, his interest in religion began to wane. In 1866, he
                    gave up the ministry and turned his talents to journalism. During the next few years, he occupied
                    editorial positions with several periodicals, both in 
                        Chicago
                     and in 
                        New York
                    . Eggleston had also begun to write; by 1870, he had achieved some renown as a
                    contributor to juvenile magazines.4
            
            In 1871, Edward Eggleston assumed the editorship of 
                  
                     4 The details of Eggleston's life have been drawn from
                            William Peirce Randel, Edward Eggleston, Author of the Hoosier
                            School-Master (
                                New York
                            , 1946), and Ralph L. Rusk, "Edward Eggleston," Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1943), VI, 62–54.
               
                    
                    Hearth and Home, a weekly magazine published in 
                        New York
                    . In an attempt to revive the periodical, which had become in Eggleston's own
                    words "anaemic," Eggleston wrote a short story wholly in Hoosier dialect, based
                    partially on his brother's experiences in a backwoods Indiana community. At the
                    suggestion of one of the proprietors, Eggleston expanded the story, which he called "The
                    Hoosier School-Master," into a novel, writing each section from week to week as it appeared
                    in the magazine. The book was completed in ten weeks, but not without a good deal of effort.
                    Eggleston, in later years, wrote that, "Long before these weeks of eager toil were over, it
                    was a question among my friends whether the novel might not write finis to me
                    before I should see the end of it."5 The story more than fulfilled its
                    purpose. Before the last installment had appeared, the circulation of Hearth and
                    Home had increased four or five fold. The popularity of the story went beyond the limited range
                    of the magazine. Country newspapers in the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                     reprinted it in their columns. Not many weeks afterwards it was published in book form
                    and promptly pirated in 
                        England
                    . Eggleston's reputation had been made.
            After the initial success of The Hoosier School-Master, Eggleston devoted his
                    talents almost exclusively to the writing of fiction. Five novels were produced within the next
                    eight years, all set in locales with which Eggleston was intimately familiar, the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley and the 
                        Minnesota
                     frontier. The earlier novels clearly indicate the haste in which they were written; the
                    latter ones, particularly Roxy, published in 1878, illustrate the maturity which
                    Eggleston reached as a writer of fiction. All of them, according to our standards of today, would be
                    considered overly sentimental and archaic. In these early works, however, Eggleston developed his
                    ideas of social history and of "realism" in literature. His work marked the
                    beginning, not only of a social interpretation of history, but also of the literary
                    "realism" of the late nineteenth century.
            The ideas expressed by Edward Eggleston in his first novels may be grouped in three general
                    categories. In the first place, Eggleston maintained that history should deal with men and women and
                    with all the aspects of their lives. Society and 
                  
                     5
                            The Hoosier School-Master (
                                New York
                            , n.d.), Preface to the Library Edition, 9.
               
                     culture are the essence of human history. Secondly, works of
                    fiction should be expressions of this social and cultural history. By being realistic, by dealing
                    with life in all its manifestations as it really was, all novels would be but
                    chapters in the history of civilization. Thirdly, in order to reproduce the history of life in all
                    its details, the writer of fiction should write only of that with which he is closely familiar.
            Eggleston's preoccupation with social history, as has been indicated, was partially
                    derived from his own personal background. The striking contrasts that resulted from his rapid change
                    of environment impressed upon his mind the diversity of society and culture in the 
                        United States
                     as well as the need for recording this diversity. His concern throughout his early
                    novels was with the small details of life, manners, speech, habits, every circumstance that
                    influenced men's lives and their ways of thinking. These details were the "seeds
                    of history"; from them sprang not only the public events with which history had
                    traditionally been concerned, but also the institutions of later time. In his preface to The Mystery of Metropolisville, his third novel published in 1873, Eggleston
                    asked, "And what is history worth but for its human interest? The history of 
                        Athens
                     is not of value on account of its temples and statues, but on account of its men and
                        women."6
            
            The men and women with whom Eggleston was primarily concerned in his early novels were the primitive
                    backwoods people living in the hinterland north of the 
                        Ohio
                     River. Eggleston at one point vividly described them as "that curious
                    poor-whitey race which is called 'tar-heel' in northern Carolina,
                    'sand-hiller' in the southern, 'corn-cracker' in 
                        Kentucky
                    , 'yahoo' in 
                        Mississippi
                    , and in 
                        California
                     '
                        Pike
                    .' They never continue in one stay, but are the half gypsies of America,
                    seeking by shiftless removals from one region to another to better their wretched fortunes, or, more
                    likely, to gratify a restless love of change and adventure. They are the Hoosiers of the dark
                    regions of Indiana and the Egyptians of southern 
                        Illinois
                    . Always in a half-barbarous state, it is among them that lynchings most prevail. Their
                    love of excitement drives them into a daring life and often into crime. From them came the 
                        Kentucky
                     frontiersmen, the Texan rangers, the Murrell 
                  
                     6
                            The Mystery of Metropolisville (
                                New York
                            , 1873), 12.
               
                     highwaymen, the 
                        Arkansas
                     regulators and anti-regulators, the ancient keel-boatmen, the more modern flat-boatmen
                    and raftsmen and roustabouts, and this race furnishes, perhaps more than its share of the road
                    agents that infest the territories. Brave men and generous men are often found among them; but they
                    are never able to rise above Daniel Boones and Simon Kentons."7
            
            Although Eggleston's heroes and heroines were not usually drawn from these people, their
                    lives and destinies were inseparably bound with this class of society. Four of these early novels
                    were set in the 
                        Ohio
                     River Valley; one, the Circuit Rider in pre-War of 1812 
                        Ohio
                    ; two, The End of the World and Roxy in the Indiana
                    of the early 1840's; and another, The Hoosier School-Master in Indiana
                    during a slightly later period. The fifth, The Mystery of Metropolisville, was set
                    on the 
                        Minnesota
                     frontier during the land boom of the latter 1850's. In all these tales,
                    social conditions were given an importance previously unknown in American literature. The life of
                    the people was minutely described in all its aspects. Pages were devoted to their habits, customs,
                    speech—in short, everything that influenced and molded their lives and behaviors.
                    Footnotes were often added further explaining certain unique social institutions; occasionally,
                    entire chapters were added, seemingly unrelated to the course of the story, describing in vivid
                    terms a cornshucking, spellingbee, shiveree or political barbecue. The characters of
                    Eggleston's novels were treated as parts of a study of society and were often pictured as
                    logical results of their own particular environment, a relationship that wasn't
                    "officially" suggested until two decades later when Frederick Jackson Turner read
                    his famous paper on the frontier. After his conversion to historical writing, Eggleston declared
                    that, "I am mainly interested in the evolution of society; … in either sort of
                    writing [fiction or history] this interest in the history of life, this tendency to what the Germans
                    call 'culture-history,' is the one distinguishing trait of almost all that I
                    have attempted."8
            
            Closely allied with Eggleston's belief that history should deal primarily with people was
                    his idea that all novels should be contributions to this history of civilization. The writer of
                        
                  
                     7
                     Roxy (
                                New York
                            , 1878), 183.
                  
                     8 "Formative Influences," Forum,
                            X, 287.
               
                     fiction could best accomplish this by writing realistically, by
                    writing of life as it really was lived. Eggleston's conception of the fundamental
                    relationship between literature and history pervaded all his earlier work. "A
                    novel," he wrote, "should be the truest of books. It partakes in a certain sense
                    of the nature of both history and art. It needs to be true to human nature in its permanent and
                    essential qualities, and it should truthfully represent some specific and temporary manifestation of
                    human nature: that is, some form of society."9 Only by being realistic,
                    could the novelist fulfill his obligation to tell the truth. "The novelist, like the
                    historian, must set down things as he finds them," Eggleston once wrote and added,
                    "A man who talks in consecrated phrases is yet in the poll-parrot state of mental
                        development."10 This obligation of the novelist became a high and
                    sacred duty. In one of his prefaces, Eggleston wrote that "no man is worthy to be called a
                    novelist who does not endeavor with his whole soul to produce the higher form of history, by writing
                    truly of men as they are, and dispassionately of those forms of life that come within his
                        scope."11
            
            Eggleston's efforts to write "truly of men as they are" may be traced
                    throughout the novels under consideration. These efforts, however, were not made without the danger
                    of misunderstanding. Eggleston once complained that "whenever one writes with photographic
                    exactness of frontier life he is accused of inventing improbable things."12 He opened The Circuit Rider with the warning that "whatever is
                    incredible in this story is true."13 The criticism has often been made
                    of Eggleston that he was never able to get beyond the "accepted dogma" that a
                    novel was a love story. In his defense, Eggleston pointed out that this was in perfect keeping with
                    his beliefs in realistic writing. "It is God," he wrote, "who made love
                    so universal that no picture of human life can be complete where love is left out."14
            
            
               
                  9
                        The Mystery of Metropolisville, 7.
               
                  10
                        The End of the World (
                            New York
                        , 1872), 230.
               
                  11
                        The Circuit Rider (
                            New York
                        , 1931), vii.
               
                  12 "The Gunpowder Plot," Duffels (
                            New York
                        , 1893), 91.
               
                  13
                        The Circuit Rider, v.
               
                  14 Henry Nash Smith, Virgin Land, The American West as Symbol
                            and Myth (
                            Cambridge
                        , 
                            Massachusetts
                        , 1950), 233; The Circuit Rider, vii. In the Mystery
                            of Metropolisville, Eggleston wrote that "it has been objected that I have
                        copied life too closely," 7.
            
            
            That Eggleston considered his works of fiction as chapters in a history of American life becomes more
                    evident with a study of his early novels. Scattered references are made throughout his stories to
                    their function as history. In the Mystery of Metropolisville, he justified a
                    failure to embellish a situation with the words, "As an authentic historian, I am bound to
                    limit myself to the simple fact."15 Eggleston even goes so far as to
                    document certain incidents. Although he repeatedly acknowledged debts to "local
                    tradition," his purpose, he wrote, was to present our forefathers, "not as they
                    seem in patriotic orations and reverent family traditions, but as they appear to a student of the
                    writings and prints of their own age."16 In The Circuit
                        Rider, Eggleston observed that "Every history has one quality in common with
                    eternity. Begin where you will, there is always a beginning back of the beginning. And, for that
                    matter, there is always a shadowy ending beyond the ending. Only because we may not always begin,
                    like Knickerbocker, at the foundation of the world, is it that we get courage to break somewhere
                    into the interlaced web of human histories—of loves and marriages, of births and deaths,
                    of hopes and fears, of successes and disappointments, of gettings and havings, and spendings and
                    losings. Yet, break in where we may, there is always just a little behind the beginning, something
                    that needs to be told."17 One literary critic declared that when
                    Eggleston's novels should cease to entertain as fiction, they would teach as history.18
            
            In keeping with his ideas that history should concern itself with the small details of life and
                    living and that literature should truthfully depict these details, Eggleston devoted a great deal of
                    space in his stories to a minute description of the social milieu in which his
                    characters acted. This devotion to detail led him on at least one occasion to apologize to the
                    reader. Again in The Circuit Rider, Eggleston wrote, "The tale I have to
                    tell will seem strange to those who know little of the social life of the West at the beginning of
                    this century. These 
                  
                     15
                            The Circuit Rider, 58; The Mystery of Metropolisvills,
                            98.
                  
                     16 Examples of Eggleston's references to "local
                            tradition" may be found in The Circuit Rider, 138, 219, 285;
                            "The Redemptioner," Duffels, 27.
                  
                     17
                            The Circuit Rider, 30.
                  
                     18 Meredith Nicholson, "Edward Eggleston," Atlantic Monthly (
                                Boston
                            , 1857-), XC (1902), 804.
               
                     sharp contrasts of corn shuckings and camp meetings, of wild
                    revels followed by wild revivals; these contacts of highwayman and preacher; this mélange of picturesque simplicity, grotesque humor and savage ferocity, of
                    abandoned wickedness and austere piety, can hardly seem real to those who know the country now. But
                    the books of biography and reminiscence which preserve the memory of that time more than justify
                    what is marvelous in these pages."19 To insure the accuracy of the
                    details he described, Eggleston often drew the characters and events of his stories from his own
                    life. The incidents of his first novel, The Hoosier School-Master, while not
                    strictly autobiographical, were drawn from life, being partially based upon his brother's
                    experiences as a schoolmaster in a backwoods Indiana community. Many of the characters were drawn
                    rather closely from actual personages Eggleston had known in his youth. Several retained the same
                    names in the story that they bore in real life, a source of never ending embarrassment to Eggleston.
                    In this tale, the reader, as one contemporary critic pointed out, becomes acquainted "with
                    the rudeness and ugliness of the intermediate West, after the days of pioneering, and before the
                    days of civilization,—the West of horse-thief gangs and of mobs, of protracted meetings
                    and of extended sprees, of ignorance drawn slowly through religious fervors towards the desire of
                    knowledge and decency in this world." Its significance in the over-all pattern of American
                    literature was recognized at once, "[The story] is chiefly noticeable … as a
                    picture of manners hitherto strange to literature, and the characters are interesting as part of the
                    picture of manners, rather than as persons whose fate greatly concerns us."20 Crude though it was, Eggleston's first novel portrayed the life of the
                    Hoosiers with undisputed authenticity.
            Eggleston's second novel, The End of the World, derived its theme from
                    the Millerite frenzy during the early 1840's, the climax of the story occurring on the
                    day in 1843 which the Millerites had announced as the end of the world. Although less
                    autobiographical than some of Eggleston's other works, the scenes and events that form
                    the background for the story were drawn from Eggleston's own experience. The story was
                        
                  
                     19
                            The Circuit Rider, v.
                  
                     20 [William Dean Howells], "Recent Literature," Atlantic Monthly, XXIX (1872), 368.
               
                     prefaced with some remarks of Principal Shairp [sic] regarding Wordsworth which echoed Eggleston's own sentiments, "He
                    believed that in country people, what is permanent in human nature, the essential feelings and
                    passions of mankind, exist in greater simplicity and strength."21 The
                    book was dedicated to his brother, George Cary Eggleston, "a manly man and a brotherly
                    brother," who had shared with Eggleston "a happy life in the shadow of just such
                    hills as those among which the events of this story took place."22 The
                    religious fervor of the time and the prejudice against foreigners among certain Indiana communities
                    were effectively described as the background for the principal characters. Critics of
                    Eggleston's own day praised the story as "a genuine picture of a type of life,
                    as peculiar and as piquant as that of rural New 
                        England
                    , and much less known." Eggleston's "thorough realization
                    of the people he has set out to describe" and the convincing reality of his characters were
                    especially commended. One reviewer optimistically predicted that The End of the
                    World would realize a sale "exceeding that of any other American novel, excepting
                    perhaps some of Mrs. Stowe's."23
            
            Perhaps one of the most autobiographical of Eggleston's early novels is his third, The Mystery of Metropolisville, published in 1873. The story is set on the
                    frontier of 
                        Minnesota
                     Territory in 1856 and describes the rise and decline of a typical frontier town,
                    Metropolisville, in simple but realistic terms. "The village grew, as hundreds of other
                    frontier villages had grown, in the flush times; it died as so many others died, of the financial
                    crash which was the inevitable sequel and retribution of speculative madness. Its history resembles
                    the history of other Western towns of the sort so strongly, that I should not take the trouble to
                    write about it, nor ask you to take the trouble to read it, if the history of the town did not
                    involve also the history of certain human lives…."24
            
            Albert Charlton, the hero of the story, was drawn from both Eggleston himself and his brother George.
                    Charlton, like Eggleston, observed a rigorous daily schedule, enjoyed mathematics 
                  
                     21
                            The End of the World, 8.
                  
                     22
                     Ibid.
                  
                     23
                     Soribner's Monthly (22 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1850–1881), V (1872–1873), 270; [William Dean Howells],
                            "Recent Literature," Atlantic Monthly, XXX (1872),
                            746–747.
                  
                     24
                            The Mystery of Metropolisville, 11–12.
               
                     and surveying, but considered it futile to attend college and
                    arrived in 
                        Minnesota
                     in 1856 on the steamboat "Ben Bolt." George Gray, the Hoosier poet
                    who experimented with dialect poems and contemplated joining in the slavery struggle in 
                        Kansas
                    , also was modeled in part after the author. Many other parallels may be found.
                    Metropolisville was copied from Cannon City, 
                        Minnesota
                    , where Eggleston lived for a time. Faribault, the county seat of Rice County, became
                    Perritaut, the seat of Wheat County, in Eggleston's book. Crystal Lake became Diamond
                    Lake, the Cannon River became the Big Gun River and Red Wing was renamed Red Owl Landing. Eggleston
                    painted a convincing and detailed picture of frontier life which he summed up in his "Words
                    Afterwards." "Metropolisville is only a memory now. The collapse of the
                    land-bubble and the opening of railroads destroyed it. Most of the buildings were removed to a
                    neighboring railway station. Not only has Metropolisville gone, but the unsettled state of society
                    in which it grew has likewise disappeared—the land-sharks, the claim speculators, the
                    town-proprietors, the trappers, and the stage-drivers have emigrated or have undergone
                    metamorphosis. The wild excitement of '56 is a tradition hardly credible to those who did
                    not feel its fever. But the most evanescent things may impress themselves on human beings, and in
                    the results which they thus produce become immortal. There is a last page to all our works, but to
                    the history of the ever-unfolding human spirit no one will ever write THE END."25 In spite of its graphic picture of the boisterous frontier land boom, The Mystery of Metropolisville, the only one of the early stories to be set
                    outside the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley, was considered by many critics disappointing as a novel.26
            
            
               The Circuit Rider, Eggleston's fourth novel, appeared in 1874. Although
                    it was his fourth novel in four years, the book did not show, as did his previous novels, the
                    evident haste with which it was written. Again highly autobiographical, the story was based on the
                    author's own background as a Methodist circuit rider in southern Indiana. Dedicated to
                    "my Comrades of Other Years, The brave and self-sacrificing men with whom I had the honor
                    to be associated in a frontier minstry," the book 
                  
                     25
                     Ibid., 320.
                  
                     26 "Recent Novels," The Nation (
                                New York
                            , 1865-), XVI (1873), 404.
               
                     described an age when "in many households, the old
                    customs still held sway; the wool was carded, spun, dyed, woven, cut and made up in the house; the
                    corn-shucking, wood-chopping, quilting, apple-peeling and country 'hoe-down'
                    had not yet fallen into disuse." The circuit rider was the central figure on the frontier
                    during this age. "More than any one else, the early circuit preachers brought order out of
                    this chaos. In no other class was the real heroic element so finely displayed. How do I remember the
                    forms and weather-beaten visages of the old preachers, whose constitutions had conquered starvation
                    and exposure—who had survived swamps, alligators, Indians, highway robbers and bilious
                    fevers! How was my boyish soul tickled with their anecdotes of rude experience—how was my
                    imagination wrought upon by the recital of their hairbreadth escapes! How was my heart set afire by
                    their contagious religious enthusiasm, so that at eighteen years of age I bestrode the saddle-bags
                    myself and laid upon a feeble frame the heavy burden of emulating their toils! Surely I have a right
                    to celebrate them, since they came so near being the death of me."27
            
            The purpose of the story was to indicate the impact of Methodism on the frontier during the early
                    part of the nineteenth century. For specific incidents in the novel, Eggleston borrowed from the
                    autobiography of one of the early circuit riders, Jacob Young. Morton Goodwin, the hero of the
                    story, is clearly modeled after Young. The conflict between the civilizing forces of Methodism and
                    the characteristic frontier tendencies was presented against a true reproduction of life in the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley. "The story," according to one reviewer, "is clearly
                    made up, in great part, of veritable personages and of incidents that are historical."28
            
            Eggleston's fifth novel, and the last to be considered here, was Roxy,
                    which appeared in 1878. Again Eggleston drew heavily on his own background. The story is set in a
                    small Swiss-American community on the banks of the 
                        Ohio
                     River, obviously modeled after Eggleston's own birthplace, and is centered
                    about the vicissitudes of Mark Bonamy, an aspiring politician and husband of Roxy. The action of the
                    tale takes place during the early 1840's; the story opens with a vivid description 
                  
                     27
                     The Circuit Rider, v-vi.
                  
                     28
                     Seribner's Monthly, VIII (1874),
                        375.
               
                     of the political campaign in 1840, when "the Whig
                    leaders … roasted beeves in order to persuade the independent voters to listen to
                    arguments on the tariff; they washed down abstruse reasonings about the 
                        United States
                     Bank with hard cider; and by good feeling persuaded the citizens to believe in internal
                        improvement."29 Frontier religion is again introduced when Mark is
                    seized with the fervor of Methodism and determines to carry the gospel to the Republic of 
                        Texas
                    . The story is one of Eggleston's best, if not the best. There are relatively
                    few instances where Eggleston made side remarks to the reader, indicating a certain maturity which
                    the author had reached as a writer.
            Eggleston wrote three more novels in addition to the five considered, but all of them were produced
                    after 1880, when he shifted his point of interest from fiction to history. The Hoosier
                        School-Boy, published in 1883, was written as a companion piece to The Hoosier
                        School-Master and may properly be classified as a juvenile book. The scene was the same as
                    in Eggleston's first novel, but more attention was given to the crude educational system
                    then in vogue. In 1888, Eggleston published The Graysons, noted chiefly for its
                    description of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     as a young lawyer. In this story, which was based wholly on popular tradition,
                    Eggleston departed from his customary search for historical veracity. "To have investigated
                    the accuracy of my version of the anecdote," Eggleston wrote in his preface,
                    "would have been, indeed, to fly in the face and eyes of providence."30
                    The Graysons closed Eggleston's cycle of stories of life in the 
                        Mississippi
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     valleys. Eggleston's last novel, The Faith Doctor, was
                    published in 1891 and satirized the fad toward Christian Science in 
                        New York
                     during the latter nineteenth century.
            A third idea introduced and expressed by Edward Eggleston in his early novels, vital to the first
                    two, has, to some degree, been alluded to already. In order to be effective in his portrayal of the
                    history of life and of manners, the novelist should write only of that with which he is familiar.
                    Eggleston was partially influenced to this point of view by a translation of Hippolyte
                    Taine's Art in the 
                            Netherlands
                        
               , in which Taine maintained that the Dutch painters produced nothing of value
                        
                  
                     29
                     Roxy, 10.
                  
                     30
                     The Graysons (
                                New York
                            , 1901), Preface.
               
                     as long as they sought their style and subject-matter in 
                        Italy
                     instead of making use of the opportunities, crude though they might be, that were at
                    hand. It was Eggleston's firm conviction that "whether in the graphic or in the
                    literary art no man can do his best work unless he chooses for his subject a life which he
                    thoroughly knows."31 In later years, Eggleston declared that in writing
                    novels illustrative of life "in the great interior valley, I was only drawing on the
                    resources which the very peculiar circumstances of my life had put at my disposal."32 To him there was "no provincial life richer in material if only one
                    knew how to get at it."33 In defense of his
                    "provincial" themes, Eggleston once wrote, "the great heroes, the
                    world's demigods, grew in just such rough social states as that of 
                        Ohio
                     in the early part of this century. There is nothing more important for an over-refined
                    generation than to understand that it has not a monopoly of the great qualities of humanity, and
                    that it must not only tolerate rude folk, but sometimes admire in them traits that have grown scarce
                    as refinement has increased."34 Only by setting his story in an
                    environment with which he was thoroughly familiar, could the novelist make of his novel
                    "the truest of books." By urging this new faith on the American literature of the
                    second half of the nineteenth century, Eggleston blazed the trail for the so-called "local
                    colorists."
            Eggleston's preoccupation with matters of dialect and folk speech stemmed in part from his
                    conviction that literature should be "provincial." Speech, to Eggleston, was a
                    vital part of social history and consequently of literature. In this respect, he received much
                    encouragement from James Russell 
                        Lowell
                    , to whom he dedicated The Hoosier School-Master, whose Biglow Papers was a pioneer in the use of local dialect. Eggleston's uses of
                    local dialect were often footnoted in his novels and long notes were added explaining the
                    "orthography" of certain words. More than once, he wished that
                    "Webster's 'American Dictionary of the English Language'
                    had not been made wholly in New 
                        England
                    , [so that] it would 
                  
                     31 George Cary Eggleston, The First of the Hoosiers,
                                Reminiscences of Edward Eggleston (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1903), 14.
                  
                     32 "Formative Influences," Forum,
                            X, 290.
                  
                     33
                            The End of the World, 7.
                  
                     34
                            The Circuit Rider, 21.
               
                     not have lacked so many words that do duty as native-born or
                    naturalized citizens in large sections of the 
                        United States
                    ."35 Eggleston's interest in dialect and folk
                    speech amounted to a thorough absorption and to him must go some recognition as an American
                        philologist.36
            
            Concomitant with Eggleston's view that literature should deal with
                    "provincial" themes, were his efforts to develop a characteristic national
                    literature free from foreign influences. The present task of American literature, he wrote,
                    "is to represent the forms and spirit of our own life, and thus free ourselves from
                    habitual imitation of that which is foreign." Thus he attempted to make his novels of value
                    as chapters in the history of civilization in America. Although, he wrote, it may be urged that this
                    is not the highest function of literature, "it is just now the most necessary function of
                    this kind of literature."37 The chief hope for a national American
                    literature, which to Eggleston meant a reflection of "the life of our country, its ideas,
                    inspirations, and its aspirations," lay in the sectional reproduction of American life to
                    which Eggleston has set himself.38 In the especially prepared preface to the
                    Library Edition of The Hoosier School-Master, Eggleston declared, "The
                    taking up of life in this regional way has made our literature really national by the only process
                    possible. The Federal nation has at length manifested a consciousness of the continental diversity
                    of its forms of life. The 'great American novel,' for which prophetic critics
                    yearned so fondly twenty years ago, is appearing in sections."39 By
                    pioneering in the field of "provincial realism," Eggleston brought the section to
                    the attention of the literary world years before Frederick Jackson Turner urged its importance on
                    the historical world.
            Eggleston's transition to the writing of formal history was only natural. He had actually
                    been writing social history 
                  
                     35
                            The End of the World, 293.
                  
                     36 For a discussion of Eggleston's interest in this field,
                            see John M. Haller, "Edward Eggleston, Linguist," Philological Quarterly ( 
                                Iowa
                             City, 1922-), XXIV (1946), 175–186.
                  
                     37
                            The Mystery of Metropolisville, 7.
                  
                     38 Benjamin T. Spencer, "The New Realism and a National
                            Literature," Publications of the Modern Language Association (
                                New York
                            , 1884-), LVI (1941), 1122. This article is an excellent discussion of
                            Eggleston's work in relation to the larger "realistic" school
                            of the latter nineteenth century.
                  
                     39
                            The Hoosier School-Master, Preface to the Library Edition,
                        6–7.
               
                     since the appearance of his first novel in 1871; he merely
                    turned to what he called a more ambitious form. In 1880, he wrote his brother George that he
                    intended to spend the next ten years of his life writing a "History of Life in the 
                        United States
                    ." "After all [he wrote] this work will not differ in essentials from
                    what I have been doing hitherto. The historical form is more ambitious—or perhaps you
                    will say more pretentious—but, as I look back over my work in fiction, I begin to see
                    clearly that every chapter of it was inspired by the same purpose that actuates me now. My interest
                    in my work has been that of a student intent upon tracing the forces of life in America to their
                    origins, and showing how men and women lived and thought and felt, under conditions that existed
                    before those of to-day came into being. So that I am not making a new departure now or entering a
                    new field. I have been writing history all the time in my novels. I am going now to write the same
                    kind of history, in a somewhat different form."40 Eggleston formed a
                    grandiose scheme for a series of volumes "not a history of the 
                        United States
                     … but a history of life there, the life of the people, the sources of their
                    ideas and habits, the course of their development from beginnings."41
                    His own background, so advantageous in the writing of his fiction, was to serve him well in his
                    historical work. Francis Parkman was reported to have told him on one occasion, "You are
                    the only man in America that can write a history of life in the 
                        United States
                    ; you are the only man who has seen so many forms of our life."42 Eggleston declared that he was prepared to devote ten years of his life to the task, if
                    necessary.
            Eggleston's task proved to require much more time than that which he originally allotted.
                    The first volume in the projected series was not published until 1897. Eggleston's
                    purpose in this volume, the full title of which is The Beginners of a Nation, A History
                        of the Source and Rise of the Earliest English Settlements in America with Special Reference to
                        the Life and Character of the People,43 was not different from that
                    which he had hoped to achieve in his early novels. "It has been my 
                  
                     40 George Cary Eggleston, The First of the Hoosiers,
                            105.
                  
                     41
                     Ibid., 363.
                  
                     42 "Edward Eggleston: An Interview," Outlook, LV, 432.
                  
                     43 (
                                New York
                            , 1897).
               
                     aim [he wrote] to make these pages reflect the character of the
                    age in which the English colonies were begun, and the traits of the colonists, and to bring into
                    relief the social, political, intellectual, and religious forces that promoted emigration. This does
                    not pretend to be the usual account of all the events attending early colonization; it is rather a
                    history in which the succession of cause and effect is the main topic—a history of the
                    dynamics of colony-planting in the first half of the seventeenth century."44
            
            This first volume was well received by the historical profession. Herbert Levi 
                        Osgood
                    , a foremost colonial historian at 
                        Columbia
                     University, in reviewing Eggleston's book, wrote, "The author has
                    put ancestor-worship, sectionalism and partisanship beneath his feet." In history, as in
                    his fiction, "his treatment of men and events is realistic. He has striven to know and to
                    depict men as they were."45 Recognition in the historical field came
                    relatively fast. In December, 1897, Eggleston was elected Second Vice-President of the American
                    Historical Association and two years later became its President. His second volume in the series on
                    American life, The Transit of Civilization from 
                            England
                         to America in the Seventeenth Century,46 was published in
                    1901, shortly before Eggleston's death. The book reflected the author's waning
                    health and was not received with the same enthusiasm as his first volume.47
            
            Edward Eggleston's influence in the development of social history in the 
                        United States
                     was a great one. His success, however, was the logical result of his literary endeavors
                    during the decade of the seventies. By breaking with the older, traditional forms of literary
                    expression; by attempting to write "realistically," of people as they really had
                    been; by emphasizing the "small" details of their lives, the influences of 
                  
                     44
                     The Beginners of a Nation, vii.
                  
                     45 Herbert Levi 
                                Osgood
                            , Review of The Beginners of a Nation, in the American Historical Review (
                                New York
                            , 1895-), II (1896–1897), 530.
                  
                     46 (
                                New York
                            , 1901).
                  
                     47 An excellent discussion of Eggleston's historical work
                            may be found in Charles Hirschfeld, "Edward Eggleston: Pioneer in Social
                            History," Eric Goldman (ed.), Historiography and Urbanization: Essays
                                in American History in Honor of W. Stull Holt (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1941), 189–210. A less penetrating discussion may be found in James
                            A. Rawley, "Edward Eggleston: Historian," Indiana Magazine of
                                History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), XL (1944), 341–352.
               
                     custom, habit, manners, speech; and by urging that writers
                    should describe only that with which they were thoroughly familiar, Eggleston left a debt to the
                    world of letters that can hardly be exaggerated. The first novels of Edward Eggleston stand today as
                    one of the first expressions of the "new history," as forerunners of the
                    "new realism" of American literature, and as a pioneer effort in the new school of
                    "local colorists." In this many-fold capacity, Eggleston's novels
                    occupy a position of prime significance in American historiography and literature.
         
         
         
            La Follette and the Progressive Machine in 
                        Wisconsin
                    
            
            
                    Robert S. Maxwell*
               
                
            To most people interested in history or government the study of political machines has held a
                    peculiar fascination. Since the days of 
                        Lincoln
                     Steffens and his fellow "Muck-rakers" the word
                    "machine" has connoted sordid politics, graft, and the clever political
                    manipulations of a "Boss" William M. Tweed or Mayor Frank Hague. In contrast, most
                    reform movements have been amateurish and unstable efforts which usually broke up in failure after
                    one or two elections. On those rare occasions when successful reform organizations have been welded
                    together they have developed techniques of political astuteness, leadership, and discipline not
                    unlike the traditional machines. Such organizations have, in truth, been political machines, but
                    with the difference that they operated in the public interest and for the public good.
            Certainly one of the most successful and dramatic of such state political reform organizations in
                    recent history was that of Robert M. La Follette, Sr. and his fellow Progressives in 
                        Wisconsin
                     during the years from 1900 to 1914. Here the Progressives developed a powerful
                    political machine, dominated state elections for a dozen years, and enacted a series of sweeping
                    political, economic, and social reforms which attracted the attention of the entire nation and were
                    widely copied. The personal success of La Follette, himself, was even more spectacular. From 1900
                    until his death in 1925 the voters of 
                        Wisconsin
                     bestowed upon him every office that he sought:—three terms as governor, four
                    terms as 
                        United States
                     Senator, and on two occasions, the vote of the state for president.
            Such continuing success was not the result of accident. It was the product of a close-knit
                    organization, adequate financing, a popular program, and dynamic leadership. In short, the
                    Progressive reforms in 
                        Wisconsin
                     were made possible by the functioning of a well-oiled machine under the direction of
                    "Fighting Bob" La Follette.1 A somewhat detailed analysis of
                        
                  
                     * Robert S. Maxwell is a member of the department of history at the
                            University of 
                                Kentucky
                            , 
                                Lexington
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            .
                  
                     1 See 
                                Lincoln
                             Steffens, " 
                                Wisconsin
                            : A State Where the People Have Restored Representative
                            Government—The Story of Governor La Follette," in McClure's Magazine (62 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1893–1929), XXIII (1904), 564–79.
               
                     the composition and functioning of this Progressive machine
                    should prove rewarding.
            The Republican combination which had elected La Follette to the governorship in 1900 was neither a
                    progressive nor a reform organization. In addition to La Follette and his personal supporters it
                    included the remnants of the old Philetus Sawyer machine in 
                        Milwaukee
                     and the local organizations of most of the conservative Republican congressmen.2 The campaign of 1900 had been in marked contrast with La Follette's
                    earlier efforts where his speeches bristled with denunciations of bosses and their methods and he
                    had identified himself as an "antimachine" candidate.3 But
                    such campaigns twice had been badly beaten and a realization that he must have wider organized
                    support and at least a truce with the old party bosses led to the formation of the coalition which
                    waged the successful "harmony campaign" in 1900. But this
                    "harmony" coalition broke apart almost as soon as the new legislature convened and
                    each group bitterly charged the other with double dealing and lack of good faith. As he saw his
                    entire legislative program collapse, La Follette began to draw the administration forces into a
                    close corporation. These became known as the "half-breeds" and formed the nucleus
                    for the organization which later developed into the powerful Progressive Republican party.4 This Progressive combination presented a mosaic of many groups and individuals
                    with varying demands and interests. Although there were significant defections in later years, the
                    party endured and functioned as a disciplined reform force for more than a decade.
            The central figure in the Progressive organization was La Follette. "Little Bob"
                    was a born campaigner. He possessed that magnetic quality which inspired devotion on the part of his
                    admirers. Few men were neutral in regard to La Follette; one was either a faithful follower or a
                    bitter opponent. "Fighting Bob" was a dynamic orator. He had the dramatic
                    intuition which enabled him to gain and hold the sympathy of his audience. 
                  
                     2 Granville D. Jones to James A. Stone, July 6, 1900, Stone Papers, 
                                Wisconsin
                             State Historical Society, 
                                Madison
                            , 
                                Wisconsin
                            ; also see Robert S. Maxwell, "La Follette and the Election of
                            1900," in the 
                                
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Magazine of History (
                                Madison
                            , 1917-), XXXV (1951), 23–29, 68–71.
                  
                     3
                            
                                Milwaukee
                            , 
                                Wisconsin
                            , Sentinel, February 23, 1897.
                  
                     4 Robert M. La Follette, La Follette's
                                Autobiography, A Personal Narrative of Political Experiences (
                                Madison
                            , 
                                Wisconsin
                            , 1913), 244–45; Emanuel Philipp, Political Reform in 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                      (
                                Milwaukee
                            , 
                                Wisconsin
                            , 1910), 31–33, 41–42.
               
                     In discussing issues, La Follette's characteristic
                    method was to reduce every question to its simplest terms and to consider problems as black or
                    white:—they were either right or wrong. He also refused to scatter his oratorical
                    dynamite over a multiplicity of issues, but would concentrate on one or two proposals. These he
                    would present with a driving, crusading zeal that completely captured his audiences. Although his
                    speeches were long, they were seldom, if ever dull. La Follette combined logical arguments,
                    statistical evidence, emotional appeal, and occasional humorous asides in such proportions that
                    people would drive for miles and stay all day to hear "Our Bob" speak.5
            
            La Follette was also a vigorous party organizer. In all aspects of political life he was a strict
                    disciplinarian, who demanded complete loyalty from his supporters. He, in turn, would strongly
                    promote the cause of his true friends and did not hesitate to drive himself to the very verge of
                    collapse in their behalf. Against opponents, he was equally energetic. Many of the stalwarts charged
                    that he campaigned against them ruthlessly, in every season, until he at last had "hung
                    their hides on the wall."6
            
            In every essential, La Follette was a "reform boss." He believed unquestioningly in
                    himself and his cause, and above all, in the ultimate triumph of right and justice. As he learned
                    the tricks of the political trade, his machinations became as professionally astute as those of any
                    of the old-line politicians. This only added to their hatred of La Follette and his
                    "Bobolettes."
            Closely associated with La Follette and his reform efforts were Albert R. Hall and the remnants of
                    the old Populist forces which had fought unsuccessfully for control of the state during the
                    1890's. Hall was known as a former Granger, an Alliance man, and a railroad baiter. He
                    had been the author of the "Anti-Pass" Act of 1899. His followers came largely
                    from the less prosperous rural regions in central and northwestern 
                        Wisconsin
                    . They were embattled, bitter, and pessimistic. This group had been long-time La
                    Follette supporters and formed one wing of the Progressive organization.7
            
            
               
                  5 Personal interview with William T. Evjue, 
                            Madison
                        , 
                            Wisconsin
                        , June 15, 1948; personal interview with John M. Nelson, 
                            Madison
                        , June 16, 1948.
               
                  6 E. W. Keyes to Marvin Hughitt, October 2, 1904, Keyes Papers, 
                            Wisconsin
                         State Historical Society.
               
                  7 Albert R. Hall to Nils P. Haugen, May 7, 1900, La Follette to Haugen,
                        May 11, 1900, Haugen Papers, 
                            Wisconsin
                         State Historical So-
            
            
            The Progressive Republicans of 
                        Wisconsin
                     also had an intellectual base. La Follette was a graduate and an active alumnus of the
                    state university. He was a classmate and close personal friend of Charles R. Van Hise, president of
                    the university from 1903 to 1918. In contrast to the traditional "ivory tower"
                    attitude in academic institutions the university professors became active participants in the
                    initiation and administration of many of the Progressive reforms in 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Inevitably, the university became closely identified with the Progressive Republican
                    administration and the personal program of Robert La Follette. Among the prominent Progressives were
                    many nationally known scholars, among them Richard T. Ely, John R. Commons, and Edward A. Ross. The
                    Saturday Lunch Club, a weekly event during the legislative sessions at 
                        Madison
                    , provided an opportunity for a regular informal exchange of ideas between the state
                    administration and the professors.8 The list of faculty members who served on
                    the various boards and commissions of the state during the Progressive era was long and impressive.
                    No less than forty-six were serving both the university and the state in 1911.9
                    This use of "experts" in government was a basic part of the political philosophy
                    of both La Follette andVanHise. In consequence the number of university graduates in state positions
                    steadily increased and the opportunity for college-trained young men to enter useful public service
                    tended to become identified with the Progressive cause.
            There was strong support for the Progressive Republicans in the ranks of organized labor in all of
                    the urban centers of the state. La Follette's initial appeal to these groups was an
                    individual one based on reform, democracy, and good citizenship. Especially friendly to La Follette
                    were the members of the railway brotherhoods and other railroad workers who saw in the Progressive
                    program the promise of greater security for themselves and the enforcement of greater responsibility
                    for their well-being upon the employers. In 
                        Milwaukee
                    , the chief industrial center of the state, the Progressives had to battle not only the
                    stalwarts, but also the strongly entrenched Democratic machine and the rising Social Democrats. Yet
                    by 
                  
                     8 M. A. Lien to James O. Davidson, August 27, 1900, Davidson Papers, 
                                Wisconsin
                             State Historical Society; La Follette's
                            Autobiography, 32.
                  
                     9 Charles McCarthy, The 
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Idea (
                                New York
                            , 1912), 313–17.
               
                     means of vigorous organization, personal contacts, and
                    concentrated appeals to workingmen as voters and citizens, La Follette and his successors were able
                    to ensure for themselves at least a proportionate share of the 
                        Milwaukee
                     vote.10 Progressive support came not only from the middle class
                    areas of the city but also from the traditional workingmen's wards where the chief
                    competition came from the Social Democrats under Emil Seidel and Victor Berger. Eventually labor,
                    both organized and unorganized, benefited enormously as the Progressive program expanded to include
                    employers' liability laws, safety legislation, workman's compensation, state
                    employment officers, and the industrial commission. La Follette's known sympathy to the
                    cause of labor and his efforts on both the state and national levels to improve working conditions
                    throughout all industries made the Progressive cause popular among the workingmen throughout the
                    state.
            Among the widely diversified ethnic groups that reside in 
                        Wisconsin
                    , the Norwegians, and to a lesser extent the Swedes, have been notable for their
                    interest in public affairs. The Progressives industriously cultivated this potential source of votes
                    and many Norwegians became prominent members of the reform movement. La Follette, himself, had lived
                    in a Norwegian neighborhood as a boy and spoke the language to some extent. "Our
                    Bob" was a great favorite among them and he spared no effort to retain their friendship and
                    affection.
            The list of Scandinavians who played a notable part in the rise of Progressivism in 
                        Wisconsin
                     provides a significant key to their contribution. Doubtless, the first in point of
                    service was Nils P. Haugen whose work with the tax commission constituted one of the greatest
                    accomplishments of the Progressive era. A prominent political figure himself, Haugen was a long-time
                    supporter of La Follette and had been largely responsible for his success in the Scandinavian areas
                    in the election of 1900.11 He had great influence with his fellow Norwegians and
                    that influence was turned into votes for La Follette. Even the staunchest stalwarts conceded that
                    this region offered "quite a barren soil on which to sow anti-La Follette 
                  
                     10
                     La Follette's Auobiography, 270; 
                                Milwaukee
                            , 
                                Wisconsin
                            , Sentinel, February 11 and March 14, 1902; The 
                                    Wisconsin
                                . Blue Book, 1901, p. 301; 1903, p. 420; 1905, p. 338.
                  
                     11 La Follette to Haugen, May 7, 11, 12, 16, and 25, 1900; F. W.
                            Walker to Haugen, October 16, 1900, Haugen Papers.
               
                     seed."12 Also prominent among the
                    early supporters of La Follette was Norwegian-born James O. Davidson. "Yim"
                    Davidson counted himself an original La Follette man who had "fought, bled and died for
                    Bob" for two campaigns before 1900.13 Davidson, seemingly a perennial
                    officeholder, was state treasurer in 1900 and later served as lieutenant-governor and succeeded La
                    Follette as governor.
            Among the younger Scandinavians who campaigned vigorously to deliver the vote to La Follette were
                    Herman L. Ekern, Irving L. Lenroot, and John M. Nelson. All of them were promoted to important state
                    and federal positions as the Progressives completed their sweep to power.14 In
                    spite of individual defections the Norwegians in 
                        Wisconsin
                     represented an almost solid bloc of votes for the Progressives in each of their
                    campaigns. The careful tending of this potential election crop was one of the important functions of
                    La Follette's new Progressive machine. The harvest was seldom disappointing.
            Unlike the Scandinavians, the Germans of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , numerically the state's largest ethnic group, were individualistic in
                    politics. Although quite idealistic about representative government, most of the citizens of 
                        German
                     origin were equally conservative and appeared to lack the political solidarity that
                    characterized other groups such as the Norwegians.15 Yet both Progressives and
                    stalwarts wooed the 
                        German
                     vote in each campaign with varying success. Individually, many citizens of 
                        German
                     ancestry held important posts in the Progressive organization. At least one prominent 
                        German
                     name appeared on every Progressive ticket during the entire period. Among the persons
                    of 
                        German
                     descent who played a significant part in the Progressive reforms were Insurance
                    Commissioner Zeno M. Host, Republican State Secretary Henry Cochems, and Normal School Regent,
                    Theodore Kronshage.
            The powerful and rapidly growing dairy interests of 
                        Wisconsin
                     also provided strong support for the new Progressive machine. Former Governor William
                    D. Hoard, President of 
                  
                     12 John C. Gaveney to E. W. Keyes, June 20, 1901, Keyes Papers.
                  
                     13 James O. Davidson to T. W. Buell, November 15, 1900, Davidson
                            Papers.
                  
                     14 Davidson to P. A. Monason, February 12, 1903, Davidson Papers.
                  
                     15 Bayrd Still, 
                        
                                    Milwaukee
                                : The History of a City (
                                Madison
                            , 
                                Wisconsin
                            , 1948), 262–63.
               
                     the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Dairyman's Association and Editor of the weekly Hoard's Dairyman, had been a close friend and adviser of the young La Follette.
                    Because of La Follette's own farm background, his known interest in scientific farming,
                    and his vigorous support of the Agriculture College, he had many loyal friends and workers among the
                    fanners in every section of the state. In turn, the general advance of scientific farming methods,
                    including the lucrative dairy industry, was little short of phenomenal. It, perhaps, is significant
                    that dairy farming became the dominant industry in the state during the years of Progressive
                    ascendancy. In any case, La Follette could count on a loyal and powerful following among the
                    forward-looking dairy farmers of 
                        Wisconsin
                    .16
            
            And finally, there was the Progressives' angel, Isaac Stephenson. "Uncle
                    Ike," with his vast timber holdings and numerous business and manufacturing interests,
                    could provide the funds necessary to offset the resources of the stalwarts. Stephenson long had been
                    influential in the Republican party and was a heavy contributor to the party war chest. He had
                    served in the assembly and in the national House of Representatives, and on three occasions, had
                    been a delegate to the Republican National Convention. It was no secret that Stephenson wished to
                    climax his career with a term in the 
                        United States
                     Senate. His prominence and generosity to the party entitled him, he felt, to this
                    honor. He was disillusioned and indignant when in 1899 his supposed friends in the legislature gave
                    the plum to Joseph V. Quarles.17
            
            But it was not simply pique that caused Isaac Stephenson to desert the stalwarts and come over to the
                    reform group. He felt that the "ring" was controlling the state entirely in its
                    own narrowly selfish interest. He thought that the railroads exercised too large a control over the
                    political life of the state. An old frontiersman himself, Stephenson had sympathy for the underdog
                    and had early admired Bob La Follette's plucky fight against the stalwarts.18 Instead of being the sole cause 
                  
                     16
                            
                                
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Blue Book, 1940, pp. 185–96; for a laudatory account of the
                            relation of the Progressives and farmers in 
                                Wisconsin
                             see Frederic C. Howe, 
                                
                                    Wisconsin
                                : An Experiment in Democracy (
                                New York
                            , 1912), 174 f.
                  
                     17 Isaac Stephenson, Recollections of a Long Life,
                                1829–1915 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1915), 190 ff.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., 214–15.
               
                     of "Uncle Ike's" disaffection, the
                    election of Quarles to the Senate was simply the final determining incident which caused Stephenson
                    to seek at least a moderate reform in the state government.
            According to Stephenson, La Follette had been reluctant to attempt the campaign in 1900. He had
                    protested that "his health was impaired, that he had no money to defray the expenses of a
                    campaign and that the time was not propitious… for a concerted effort." However,
                    when a plan of campaign was drawn up and Stephenson had advanced twenty-five hundred dollars towards
                    initial expenses, Bob's reluctance, he recalled, vanished. The next year Stephenson
                    provided the party with an effective and much needed Progressive paper when he established the 
                        Milwaukee
                    
                    Free Press as a large, metropolitan, morning daily which was capable of combating
                    the attacks of the stalwart owned 
                        Milwaukee
                    
                    Sentinel.19 The Free Press probably was
                    never a profitable venture, but it became a valiant crusader for the Progressive cause. La Follette
                    praised the Free Press, according to Stephenson, as the "incorruptible
                    advocate of the kind of government that 
                        Lincoln
                     proclaimed on the field of 
                        Gettysburg
                    ." He referred to the paper as "Mr. Stephenson's best
                    monument" and called his continuing support of it "an act of
                        patriotism."20
            
            Throughout the entire period of "Fighting Bob's" governorship,
                    Stephenson was a heavy contributor to every campaign. His personal influence was not inconsiderable
                    but it was his financial backing which made his support vital to the Progressive's cause.
                    Not only did he help defray the expenses of the state-wide campaigns, but Stephenson was also ready
                    to give for district and local races. The Stephenson checkbook was, in large part, responsible for
                    the widespread distribution of literature and thorough canvass of voters that was a characteristic
                    of La Follette's campaigns. "Uncle Ike" estimated that he had spent
                    over five hundred thousand dollars to forward the Progressive cause and to secure the elections of
                    La Follette and many of his lieutenants. "Without me," he commented, "the
                    history of this achievement would have been a blank page."21
            
            
               
                  19
                        Ibid., 216–19; 
                            Milwaukee
                        , 
                            Wisconsin
                        , Free Press, June 18, 1901.
               
                  20 Stephenson, Recollections of a Long Life, 237, 239.
               
                  21
                        Ibid., 254.
            
            
            All political machines are said to "run" on patronage. La Follette's
                    organization was no exception. A large number of party workers found their ways into profitable jobs
                    in the state administration. Clerks, oil inspectors, and factory inspectors performed dual service
                    during the campaign season. Even the lists of temporary personnel, like state fair guards and ticket
                    sellers, were culled in order to provide the greatest possible number of jobs for Progressive
                        workers.22
            
            But by far the largest single group of part-time political workers for the Progressive cause were the
                    state game wardens. So notorious became the activities of these so-called conservationists that
                    their functions were a standing joke in the state press. For example, the Rice Lake Leader noted that the game wardens were "strolling around the state …
                    hunting for men who will vote for La Follette at the next state convention." The 
                            Grant County
                         Witness observed that the "game wardens are out on the
                    road—for La Follette." The Hudson Star-Times quipped that
                    "there should be a closed season" on the class of game that the wardens were
                        seeking.23
            
            At election time the deputy wardens were especially active. The distribution of pamphlets, posters,
                    and sample ballots became part of their function. In districts where close contests were expected,
                    several deputies would work as a team, calling on the party members, getting out the vote, and even
                    providing vehicles to take citizens to the polls.24 As was to be expected, the
                    stalwarts denounced the zeal of the game wardens as evidence of the corruption of the Progressive
                    administration. The Sentinel charged that there were fifty to sixty deputy game
                    wardens and thirty-five oil inspectors in the state, all engaged in political activity.25
            
            In truth the expenses of the game wardens and oil inspectors did climb rapidly during La
                    Follette's three administrations. According to the state treasurer such costs more than
                    tripled between 1900 and 1905. At the same time receipts also 
                  
                     22 John L. Fisher to Davidson, August 9, 1902; Davidson to H. A.
                            Johnson, August 21, 1905, Davidson Papers; La Follette to Arthur Pugh, June 4, 1900, Pugh
                            Papers, 
                                Wisconsin
                             State Historical Society.
                  
                     23 Rice Lake, 
                                Wisconsin
                            , Leader (
                                Barron County
                            ), January 16, 1902; The 
                                    Grant County
                                 Witness (Platteville, 
                                Wisconsin
                            ), March 12, 1902; Hudson, 
                                Wisconsin
                            , Star-Times, January 30, 1903.
                  
                     24 J. S. Johnson to Keyes, August 18, 1902; Hiram D. Fisher to Keyes,
                            April 4, 1909, Keyes Papers.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Milwaukee
                            , 
                                Wisconsin
                            , Sentinel, January 29, 1902.
               
                     grew rapidly, almost equaling the increased expenditures.26 Both the political activity and the expenses of the game wardens declined
                    after La Follette was elected to the Senate. The Civil Service Act, passed that same year, partially
                    curbed them but they remained a solid corps of administration supporters during the entire
                    Progressive era. The increased efficiency of the enforcement of the game laws should not be
                    overlooked. The large corps of wardens largely paid their own way through fines and licenses. Years
                    afterward, in recalling the controversy over the game wardens during La Follette's
                    governorship, former Congressman John M. Nelson smilingly admitted that the Progressives had used
                    everybody and every device they could find in the scramble for votes,—"just as
                    the stalwarts were doing."27
            
            The Progressives also sought the support of "fair-minded" Democrats in all of their
                    campaigns. The party nominating machinery, under both the convention and primary systems, was open
                    to all interested persons and numerous Democrats participated in behalf of La Follette and the
                    Progressive slate. It was estimated that the vote of such "fair-minded" Democrats
                    offset the losses caused by bolting stalwarts.28
            
            These various elements of the Progressive organization were drawn together slowly during the years
                    from 1901 to 1904. Although La Follette easily won a second term in the state election of 1902
                    against the stalwarts' "Eleventh Story League" and the conservative
                    Democrats, it was recognized that this was only the preliminary struggle.29 The
                    decisive battle was yet to be fought, and both La Follette and the whole Progressive program would
                    be the objects of an all-out attack in 1904.
            The state election of 1904 provides an excellent example of La Follette's campaign
                    techniques. This triumph proved to 
                  
                     26 From $125, in 1899 and $37,000, in 1900 the disbursements for game
                            wardens salaries and expenses rose to $85,000 in 1904 and $94,-024.90 in 1905. Biennial Report of the State Treasurer, 1900, p. 49; 1902, p.
                            59; 1904, p. 64; 
                                
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Blue Book, 1907, pp. 671–72.
                  
                     27 Personal interview with John M. Nelson, June 16, 1948.
                  
                     28
                     La Follette's Autobiography,
                            343–47; Philipp, Political Reform in 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                     , 62.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Milwaukee
                            , 
                                Wisconsin
                            , Sentinel, November 5, 1902; 
                                
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Blue Book, 1903, pp. 447–65.
               
                     be the key victory in the Progressives' rise to power
                    and provided a rather dramatic illustration of the machine in action.
            The maneuvers for the control of the next Republican convention began as soon as the legislative
                    session of 1903 was over. The "shock troops" of the Progressive army carefully
                    canvassed every county, saw every voter and mended the political fences with the local party
                    workers. The clerical staff prepared and distributed over sixteen hundred thousand separate pieces
                    of mail to the voters throughout the state.30 La Follette himself, campaigned
                    through the summer on the Chatauqua platform, at county fairs, and on holiday occasions. Candidates
                    were groomed in the several districts to unseat stalwart incumbents in the local offices and state
                    legislature. Stalwart members of Congress, including erstwhile ally Joseph Babcock, were the objects
                    of an all-out purge effort.31
            
            La Follette left no stone unturned to ensure victory. He feared that if an anti-Progressive candidate
                    was elected, all of the gains of the previous legislature would be lost. The referendum on the
                    direct primary, to be submitted to the people in the general election, might be defeated. With the
                    approval of Stephenson, Hoard, Hall and others, he agreed to become a candidate for a third term and
                    plunged into the campaign with his usual vigor, personally appearing in every county possible.32
            
            The contest for delegates was sharp and bitter, for the stalwarts were united in their opposition to
                    the "
                        Madison
                     Dictator." In many counties, disputed elections and two rival delegations
                    resulted. Even such a veteran machine manipulator as former boss Elisha Keyes was astonished at the
                    resources and competence of the administration forces. In the scramble for delegates, no effort was
                    spared, no delegation was conceded, no contest was abandoned by either side in their efforts to
                    build up a majority at the convention. Both Progressives and stalwarts used all means and measures
                    at hand to ensure the success of their cause.33
            
            
               
                  30 Philipp, Political Reform in 
                                Wisconsin
                            
                  , 55; La, Follette's Autobiography, 321.
               
                  31
                        
                            Milwaukee
                        , 
                            Wisconsin
                        , Sentinel, January 20, 1903; J. W. Babcock to Keyes, February 23,
                        1904, Keyes Papers.
               
                  32
                        
                            Madison
                        , 
                            
                                Wisconsin
                             State Journal, March 12, 1904; Keyes to John C. Spooner, March 13, 1904,
                        Keyes Papers.
               
                  33 Keyes to H. A. Taylor, April 21, 1904, Keyes Papers; 
                            Milwaukee
                        , 
                            Wisconsin
                        , Sentinel, May 6, 1904; 
                            Madison
                        , 
                            
                                Wisconsin
                             State Journal, May 14, 1904.
            
            
            As the state convention approached, the rival newspapers claimed victory for their candidates. The
                    partisans on each side denounced the opposition for not yielding gracefully. The Sentinel charged that the La Follette supporters would attempt to "steal the
                    convention." The Free Press made a similar charge against the
                        stalwarts.34
            
            The La Follette genius for organization was nowhere better displayed than at the "Gymnasium
                    Convention" of 1904. It was evident that the stalwarts would make a bitter, last-ditch,
                    no-quarter fight to control the organization of the convention. As neither side had a clear,
                    undisputed majority this control hinged on the decisions concerning the disputed delegations. The
                    state central committee, however, would have to make a preliminary ruling on each case in order to
                    organize the convention on a temporary basis. As the state central committee had a majority of
                    Progressives and was headed by General George E. Bryant, State Superintendent of Public Property and
                    long-time friend of La Follette, this temporary organization was conceded to favor the Governor. The
                    whole Progressive machine was determined that this temporary organization would become the permanent
                    one and the stalwarts would not be permitted to seize the convention by any trick, parliamentary
                    stratagem, or force. The area for delegates was carefully fenced off. Special guards were employed,
                    consisting of former university football players, professional athletes, state prison guards, and
                    other husky characters. A barbed-wire fence was erected outside the building to force the delegates
                    to enter single file. Special delegates' badges were printed and countersigned to prevent
                    any but the committee approved delegates from appearing on the floor of the convention. The entire
                    procedure for conducting the crucial first session of the convention was typed for the convenience
                    of the seventy-two-year-old Bryant, whose duty it was to call the session to order. The
                    administration left nothing to chance. All nominating and seconding speeches were assigned, and all
                    persons to make motions were designated. The committee on contests (to be appointed by the chair)
                    was listed, and even a special committee on emergencies was named. The old Civil 
                  
                     34
                            
                                Milwaukee
                            , 
                                Wisconsin
                            , Sentinel, May 11 and 16, 1904; 
                                Milwaukee
                            , 
                                Wisconsin
                            , Free Press, May 15, 1904.
               
                     War veteran could keep the convention proceeding according to
                    plan without even taking his eyes from his memorandum.35
            
            The stalwarts could expect to be voted down and counted out. Their effort to march on the university
                    gymnasium with a band of strong-armed guards of their own was frustrated and they saw the convention
                    organized with a Progressive majority, their own minority report voted down, and Irving Len-root, an
                    extreme La Follette partisan, installed as temporary chairman. The resulting
                    "bolt" was anticipated by all factions. The stalwarts retired to the city opera
                    house and, after rousing speeches by senators John C. Spooner and Quarles, nominated a whole slate
                    of state officers including Samuel A. Cook for governor. This convention adjourned proclaiming
                    itself the true Republican party in 
                        Wisconsin
                     and denouncing La Follette and his machine.36
            
            After the withdrawal of the "bolters," the "Gymnasium Convention"
                    proceeded to renominate La Follette and the other state officers with dispatch. The primary election
                    law, to be voted upon in the November election, was recommended and the proposed railroad commission
                    was endorsed. They adjourned after a crusading speech by "Fighting Bob" calling
                    upon the party to complete the return of the state to the people and stand firm on the pledges of
                    the platform.37
            
            The stalwarts took their case to the state supreme court in an effort to force the listing of their
                    ticket as the regular Republican party in 
                        Wisconsin
                    . The Progressives took their case to the people. The entire organization from the
                    governor down to the youngest deputy game warden stumped the state and beat the bushes from the 
                        Mississippi
                     to Marinette. In every county La Follette preached primary elections, a railroad
                    commission, and the necessity for completing the job of reform. In many sections he would examine
                    the records of the local state legislators by means of the "roll call" which had
                    become famous as a La Follette campaign device. In La 
                  
                     35 "Memorandum of General George E. Bryant," Bryant
                            Papers, 
                                Wisconsin
                             State Historical Society; 
                                Madison
                            , 
                                
                                    Wisconsin
                                 State Journal, May 18 and 19, 1904; La
                                Follette's Autobiography, 323–26; Philipp, Political Reform in 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                     , 75.
                  
                     36
                            
                                Milwaukee
                            , 
                                Wisconsin
                            , Sentinel, May 20, 1904; 
                                Milwaukee
                            , 
                                Wisconsin
                            , Free Press, May 20, 1904; Keyes to Taylor, May 19, 1904,
                            Keyes Papers.
                  
                     37
                            
                                Madison
                            , 
                                
                                    Wisconsin
                                 State Journal, May 20, 1904.
               
                     Crosse, for example, he denounced both Assembly Speaker George
                    H. Ray and State Senator John C. Gaveney for their records in the past sessions of the legislature.
                    These men, he contended, had been elected by the people to vote for them; instead they had voted for
                    the railroads.38 The Progressive campaign was not merely a fight for the
                    governorship. The organization supported the efforts of all Progressive candidates down to and
                    including the local offices. Soon even the staunchest stalwarts conceded that their party was
                    unlikely to defeat La Follette and acknowledged that their only hope was to have Cook declared the
                    regular Republican candidate. Elisha Keyes gloomily confided that everything depended on the court
                    decision, but confessed that he had little hope. "Bob," he conceded, was the
                    biggest campaigner ever developed in the Western country. He was "touring the country in a
                    red devil of an automobile" like a whirlwind and his lieutenants were working night and day
                    to get out the vote for the Progressive ticket.39
            
            The briefs for the disputed "Gymnasium Convention" case included scores of
                    affidavits, the testimony of numerous witnesses, and the comprehensive arguments of the respective
                    counsels. This mass of material threatened to swamp the court under a mountain of conflicting
                    claims. Nevertheless, the Supreme Court of 
                        Wisconsin
                     accepted jurisdiction over the case and hastened to reach a decision before the
                    November election rendered its findings of historical interest only. At last, just a month before
                    the election, the high court handed down a decision in favor of the defendant and dismissed the
                    suit. In effect, the majority of the court determined that the state central committee was
                    exercising its proper powers when it determined which delegations to seat in the convention and
                    Secretary of State Walter Houser was within his authority when he declined to certify the contesting
                    delegation as the Republican party in 
                        Wisconsin
                    .40
            
            Candidate Cook at once withdrew from the race and the 
                  
                     38 Keyes to Hughitt, October 2, 1904, Keyes Papers; 
                                Milwaukee
                            , 
                                Wisconsin
                            , Sentinel, September 28, 1904. Both Kay and Gaveney were
                            "purged" in the ensuing election.
                  
                     39 Taylor to Keyes, July 6 and August 15, 1904; Keyes to Taylor,
                            September 13, 1904, Keyes Papers.
                  
                     40
                            
                                
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                             ex rel. Cook et al. v. Walter L. Houser, 122 
                                Wisconsin
                            , 534; 100 North Western Reports, 864 (1904).
               
                     stalwarts were forced to substitute former Governor Edward
                    Scofield in his place. The party was placed on the ballot as the "National Republican
                    Party" but the organization of the "Opera House" group collapsed so
                    completely that they privately urged their supporters to vote for the Democratic candidates as the
                    most likely way to defeat La Follette.41
            
            The resulting election was close. In a presidential year when the Republican national ticket swept to
                    a one hundred fifty thousand landslide majority in 
                        Wisconsin
                    , La Follette polled a plurality of a bare fifty thousand. He lost fourteen of the
                    state's seventy-one counties and ran behind the rest of his ticket by forty to fifty
                    thousand votes. Nevertheless, it was a great victory. The primary election law was approved by more
                    than sixty per cent of the voters and La Follette supporters won complete control of the incoming
                    legislature. The Scofield ticket polled only twelve thousand votes.42
                    "Fighting Bob" La Follette had at last broken the stalwart opposition. So
                    completely did they disintegrate that they did not reappear as a force in 
                        Wisconsin
                     politics for a decade.
            The Progressive machine in 
                        Wisconsin
                     had been built from many diverse elements. Old Populists, idealistic crusaders,
                    university intellectuals, Scandinavian and farming groups, urban workers, professional
                    officeholders, ambitious youngsters, and a disgruntled multimillionaire had combined to rout the old
                    political forces and take over the entire machinery of the state. The way was now open for the
                    enactment of the comprehensive body of political, social, and economic reforms which have since
                    become identified with the " 
                        Wisconsin
                     Idea." This union of soil, shop, and seminar was cemented by the magnetic
                    personality and inspiration of "Fighting Bob" La Follette. Under him the
                    organization became a powerful cohesive force so that behind the idealism and popular appeal of the
                    " 
                        Wisconsin
                     Idea" lay the solid fact of a well-knit, efficient and at times ruthless
                    political machine which was capable of controlling and disciplining its members, of producing
                    impressive majorities at the polls, and of enacting its program into law. In spite of conflicting
                    ambitions and personalities, this 
                  
                     41 Taylor to Keyes, October 8, 1904, Keyes Papers; Henry Casson to
                            Henry C. Adams, October 22, 1904, Adams Papers, 
                                Wisconsin
                             State Historical Society.
                  
                     42
                            
                                
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Blue Book, 1905, pp. 366–82, 549.
               
                     machine continued for a dozen years to operate for reform in the
                    public interest. Such was the Progressive Republican party of 
                        Wisconsin
                     under the direction and leadership of Robert M. La Follette.
         
         
         
            Documents
            Autobiography of Alvin P. Hovey's Early Life
            
                    Introduction and notes by Elfrieda Lang*
               
                
            Daniel, the youngest of nine children of Richard Hovey, the glover, who lived at Waltham Abbey, Essex
                    County, 
                        England
                    , immigrated to Ipswich, 
                        Massachusetts
                     in 1635 at the age of seventeen. For approximately two centuries most of the members of
                    the Hovey family remained in the New 
                        England
                     States. The War of 1812 brought many hardships to this area of the country and these
                    likewise descended upon the Hovey family. Therefore, in 1818, Abiel and Frances Hovey with their
                    five children went west to repair their fortunes and sought more fertile fields on the banks of the 
                        Ohio
                    , settling near 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    , Indiana.1 In the Hoosier State two more children2 were born to this New 
                        England
                     family.
            Alvin P., the youngest, was born in a log cabin on September 6, 1821. His mother's
                    ancestors were Irish and from her he inherited a fine imagination and courage distinctive of that
                    nationality. Before he reached his second birthday death had deprived him of his father, who died as
                    poor as he came to Indiana and left the "youngest son with nothing but his blessing and a
                    mother's love to enter the battle of life." Want and privation made an indelible
                    impression upon Alvin as a child. To this was added another sting on his fifteenth birthday when
                    death summoned his mother.3
            
            Consequently, some means for procuring a livelihood had to be found. For several months he was
                    employed in a little shop which sold both groceries and other merchandise. Leisure hours, though
                    few, were spent in reading English poetry. He 
                  
                     * Elfrieda Lane is research associate and assistant editor of the Indiana Magazine of History.
                  
                     1
                            The Hovey Book Describing the English Ancestry and American Descendants of
                                Daniel Hovey of Ipswich, 
                                    Massachusetts
                                
                      (
                                Haverhill
                            , 
                                Massachusetts
                            , 1913), 5–6, 9, 226–27. Abiel Hovey was born in 
                                Lyme
                            , 
                                New Hampshire
                            , October 30, 1776. Frances Peterson Hovey, the daughter of John and Frances
                            Peterson, was born in 
                                Vermont
                             on May 20,1780 (?). Their five children were Frances, Eliza, Amanda, Charlotte,
                            and Charles.
                  
                     2 Minerva and Alvin Peterson were born in 
                                Posey County
                            . Ibid., 228.
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., 227, 287: 
                                New York
                            , The Republic, January 22, 1890; Unsigned MS in Alvin P.
                            Hovey Papers, Indiana University Library, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana. Abiel Hovey died on July 17, 1823, in 
                                Posey County
                            , Indiana. Frances Peterson Hovey died on September 6, 1836, in the same
                        county.
               
                     was soon convinced that he did not want to spend the remainder
                    of his life as a mere clerk in a store. The future looked hopeless, but he yearned to obtain a more
                    important position. After hours of deliberation he decided to write a letter to John Pitcher,4 an outstanding lawyer in 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    , asking permission to use his books. Weeks passed and no answer came. Yet, Hovey was so
                    determined to become a lawyer that he concluded a personal call might be received with more favor.
                    On the chosen day he visited Pitcher's library with the feeling of a criminal awaiting
                    the decision of a court. In a few brief words he again made his request. Thereupon, the lawyer
                    delivered a long lecture pointing out that success in the legal profession required a great deal of
                    hard work and much talent, and that some trade would offer more inducements. No doubt, the Judge
                    could see in the eyes of young Hovey that his lecture had not discouraged him. One of the oldest
                    books, therefore, was taken off the shelf in the hope that it might dispel the young
                    man's delusions. It, however, had the opposite effect and Hovey in time became a master
                    of the profession.
            
               
                  4 Judge John Pitcher was born in 
                            Watertown
                        , 
                            Connecticut
                        , on August 22, 1795. At the age of seventeen he began studying law and was admitted
                        to the bar in 1815. The same year he was married to Eliza Gamble. In 1816 he came west, making
                        almost the entire journey on foot and located in 
                            St. Louis
                        , 
                            Missouri
                        . Four years later he moved to Rock-port, 
                            Spencer
                         County, Indiana. In 1819, Thomas 
                            Lincoln
                        , the father of Abraham, had moved to a farm in 
                            Spencer
                         County. A friendship developed and Abraham frequently called at the office of
                        Pitcher because the latter's books attracted him. Since the family was very poor and
                        the services of young Abe were needed on the farm, Pitcher loaned him books which could be read
                        at home during leisure hours. In 1820, Pitcher represented 
                            Spencer
                         and Perry counties in the state legislature and two years later became judge of the
                        probate court for Gibson, Posey, Vander-burgh, and 
                            Warrick
                         counties. In 1835 he came to 
                            Mt. Vernon
                         and practiced his profession for forty years. The following year the Whigs
                        nominated him for Congress from the first district. Five years later he was nominated and
                        elected to represent Posey and 
                            Vanderburgh
                         counties in the state senate. Because of family relations he drifted into the
                        Democratic party in 1868, but twenty years later he supported Benjamin Harrison. For his second
                        wife he had chosen Amanda Cissena, a native of 
                            Ohio
                        , who died in 1854. Oliver C. Terry, 
                            Mt. Vernon
                        , Indiana, to Jesse W. Weik, 
                            Greencastle
                        , Indiana, July 14, 1888, in the Herndon-Weik Collection of Lincolniana, in the
                        Division of Manuscripts, Library of Congress, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C. The microfilm copy of this collection, which is in the Indiana University
                        Library, was used. Terry served as treasurer of 
                            Mt. Vernon
                         from 1868 to 1878, and in 1878 became mayor and served two years. Original Returns
                        of the Seventh 
                            United States
                         Census, 1850, 
                            Posey County
                        , Indiana. The microfilm copy of the census, which is in the Indiana University
                        Library, was used. Indiana House Journal, 1830, p. 4; Indiana
                            Senate Journal, 1841, 4; The Goodspeed Publishing Co., History of 
                                Posey County
                            , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1886), 376, 518.
            
            
            In his eighteenth year, he became a student of law and like Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     devoted the hours of daylight to earn enough to live on and the evenings to reading.
                    While the work of 
                        Lincoln
                    's hands and the plow was evidenced in the fields of his father's 
                        Spencer
                     County farm, that of Hovey's hands and trowel became a more permanent
                    fixture in the form of chimneys on many houses in 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    .5
                    
                        Lincoln
                     moved to 
                        Illinois
                    , but Hovey always claimed Indiana for his permanent residence. After three years
                    preparation reading law, Hovey was admitted to the bar of 
                        Posey County
                     in 1843 and was regarded as one of the best read young men in southern Indiana at that
                        time.6
            
            By the following year he had been convinced that life might be more interesting if joys and sorrows
                    could be shared with a companion. As a result of this decision, he chose Mary Ann James, a native of 
                        Baton Rouge
                    , 
                        Louisiana
                    , to become his wife on November 24, 1844. To this union five children were born, three
                    of whom died in childhood.7 Esther and Charles James who reached maturity were
                    always highly esteemed in this southern Indiana village.
            Early in his career Hovey won local fame by ousting the executors of the William Maclure estate and
                    becoming the administrator for the property of that eccentric philanthropist.8
                    Probably the school of hard knocks had taught him that there was no room for corruption in the life
                    of a loyal citizen.
            When the war with 
                        Mexico
                     began, Indiana furnished five regiments of volunteers. In 
                        Posey County
                     a company was raised of which Enoch R. James9 was captain and Hovey
                    a 
                  
                     5 Unsigned MS in Alvin P. Hovey Papers. 
                                Lincoln
                            's early reading was directed by Pitcher when the latter was living
                            in 
                                Rockport
                            , although his real interest in law began in 
                                Illinois
                            . William H. Herndon and Jesse W. Weik, Herndon's 
                                    Lincoln
                                , The True Story of a Great Life (3 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1890), I, 61.
                  
                     6 Unsigned MS in Alvin P. Hovey Papers.
                  
                     7 Mary Ann James was born on February 22, 1825, and died in 
                                Mt. Vernon
                             on November 16, 1863. The children were all born in 
                                Mt. Vernon
                            . Esther, born on January 8, 1846, married Major Gustavus Varsa Menzies on
                            November 11, 1869, in 
                                New York
                             City. Enoch James, born February 7, 1848, died at the age of six. Charles
                            James, born January 8, 1850, later became a banker, justice of the peace, and twice
                            postmaster of 
                                Mt. Vernon
                            . He married Lillie Jaquess, a native of Poseyville, on March 16, 1871, in 
                                Evansville
                            . Mary, born January 13, 1854, died on March 30, 1855. Mary Ann, born April 1,
                            1857, died on April 7, 1858. Hovey Book, 288, 358.
                  
                     8 For details of the case see, 5 Indiana Reports,
                            465–79.
                  
                     9 Enoch R. James, the father of Mrs. Hovey, was born in 
                                Kentucky
                            
                  
               
                     first lieutenant. The company was assigned to the Second Indiana
                    Regiment, but this regiment was never mustered into service because the quota for Indiana had been
                        filled.10 Possibly this was a disappointment, but the gates to a larger area
                    soon opened to test the talents of this young man.
            In 1850 as a member of the constitutional convention he made his ablest speech on homestead
                    exemption, which he did not favor because the only class that would benefit from "such
                    provisions would be those who" became "involved in debt beyond their means of
                    payment." Then, he asked the question whether it would be "conducive to public
                    morals to place that class comparatively above want by giving them homesteads … purchased
                    with the funds of other men." He was of the opinion if the homestead exemption were
                    adopted, it might be difficult for the individual just beginning and not known to receive credit
                    because exemption by law would be greater than a young man could probably acquire in five years. As
                    a result, he claimed thousands would be "driven from independent labor for
                    themselves." They would "be compelled to toil for their more fortunate and wealthy
                    neighbors." This would lead to an "over amount of hireable labor in the
                    market," and the price would be reduced and the poor would be "completely within
                    the power of the rich."
            He emphasized the fact that it was the love of gain that "peopled this western
                    wilderness-like world with millions of happy and intelligent freemen." It was the hope of
                    glory or gain that lightened "the poor boy's eye in his log cabin in the
                    wilderness, when by the midnight lamp" he pored "over some old musty work of
                    history or science." Furthermore, he declared if you struck "from the affections
                    of man the love of property," you would "paralyze the intellectual progress of the
                    world." In conclusion he said, "avoid making laws for one class to the injury of
                    another. Without strong reasons to the 
                  on July 4, 1800, the son of Samuel and Frances James, both natives of 
                                Virginia
                            . In 1816, Enoch came to 
                                Posey County
                             and five years later went to 
                                Louisiana
                             to engage in mercantile pursuits. Between 1830 and 1835 he returned to 
                                Posey County
                            . In 1847, he was elected to the state senate for Posey and 
                                Vanderburgh
                             counties and re-elected in 1850. His wife, Esther Lowry, a native of 
                                Maryland
                            , died on June 21, 1849. Good-speed, History of 
                                    Posey County
                                , Indiana, 501; Indiana Senate Journal, 1847, p. 6;
                                ibid., 1850, p. 4.
                  
                     10
                            
                                New York
                            , The Republic, January 22, 1890; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Sentinel, November 24, 1891.
               
                     contrary the general rule should be no law for the
                    rich—no law for the poor—but a law for the whole people."11
            
            Earlier in the convention he had delivered a speech on the Grand Jury contending it was "one
                    of the most democratic features in the judiciary department." The Grand Jury system he said
                    was "without a parallel in the history of nations or of man."
                    "Kingdoms," he remarked had been "overthrown, empires" had
                    "mouldered into dust, but the Grand Jury amid all the changes of a thousand
                    years," had "stood as firm and immovable as the pyramids of 
                        Egypt
                    ."12
            
            Apparently Hovey, though only twenty-nine years of age, had demonstrated in the constitutional
                    convention that he had ability and as a result was given an opportunity to make his mark. From 1851
                    to 1854 he served as judge of the circuit court of southern Indiana. Then in May of 1854, he became
                    a member of the Indiana Supreme Court to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Judge Addison
                    L. Roache.13 Although his term with this body was less than a year, he handed
                    down a decision on December 12, 1854, which added to his prestige. In the spring of 1853, 
                        Greencastle
                     Township in 
                        Putnam
                     County had voted to assess a local tax for education. Some of the citizens objected and
                    the case came up for consideration before Judge Hovey who declared that the tax was
                        unconstitutional.14 The inhabitants of one county or township should not be
                    compelled to bear greater burdens than are borne by the citizens in other counties or townships.
                    When taxes are collected to be used for state purposes, the constitution directs the general
                    assembly to provide by law for a uniform and equal rate of assessment and taxation.
            
               
                  11
                        Report of the Debates and Proceedings of the Convention for the Revision of the
                            Constitution of the State of Indiana, 1850 (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1850), I, 751–53. The aim of homestead exemption was to protect land or
                        town property if valued at not less than five hundred dollars against seizure and sale by and
                        legal process for any debt contracted after the adoption of the 1851 Constitution. Ibid., 746.
               
                  12
                  Ibid., 204, 205.
               
                  13 Addison L. Roache was born in 
                            Rutherford
                         County, 
                            Tennessee
                        , November 3, 1817, and with his family came to 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, in 1828. Here he took advantage of a collegiate education at Indiana
                        University and graduated in 1836. On July 13, 1858, he was appointed a trustee of his Alma
                        Mater. When, however, he moved to 
                            Indianapolis
                         in 1859, he became ineligible to hold this post. On April 10, 1878, he again was
                        given an opportunity to be a trustee of Indiana University, and from 1879 to 1881 served as
                        president of the board. Burton D. Myers, Trustees and Officers of Indiana
                            University 1820 to 1950 ([
                            Bloomington
                        ], 1951), 237–39.
               
                  14
                        
                     
                                Greencastle
                             Township v. Black, 5 Indiana Reports,
                    557–77.
            
            
            Thus far the various offices he had filled were due to his membership in the Democratic party. His
                    last post as a member of that body was in 1856 when President 
                        Franklin
                     Pierce appointed him attorney for the district of Indiana.15
                    Hovey's knowledge of law was widely known in both political parties.
            His interests, however, were not confined solely to the legal profession. When President 
                        Lincoln
                     issued the first call for volunteers, Hovey organized the First Regiment of the Indiana
                    Legion of which he was commissioned a colonel. He later became a colonel in another division, the
                    Twenty-fourth Indiana Infantry. Hovey entered the battle with the goal to win and fought to the
                    bitter end. It has been asserted that he won his greatest reputation in the Battle of
                    Champion's Hill in 
                        Mississippi
                     in May, 1863. From time to time he demonstrated his ability as a military leader and
                    promotions were awarded to him. The announcement of Hovey's last promotion to Brevet
                    Major General was made on July 15, 1864, and four days later he took the oath.16
                    From letters in the Hovey Papers it is apparent this advancement was long over due.
            Notwithstanding the fact that many will remember the name of General Hovey in connection with the
                    Civil War because of his courage on the battlefield, others, however, will associate the name with a
                    phrase which the General inherited upon the execution of an order from Ulysses S. Grant to raise ten
                    thousand men. Only those who were footloose and free were invited. Consequently, when the quota was
                    made up, many of the recruits were mere boys, and were, therefore, labeled
                    "Hovey's babies."17
            
            Regardless of how insignificant and simple or how important and difficult a task, Hovey attempted to
                    discharge his duty in what appeared to be the most beneficial to all concerned. Hence, when the Sons
                    of Liberty were becoming too active for comfort in the minds of state officials in Indiana, 
                  
                     15
                            
                                New York
                            , The Republic, January 22, 1890; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Sentinel, November 24, 1891.
                  
                     16
                     Report of the Adjutant General of the State of
                            Indiana (8 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1865–1869), I (1869), 112; II (1865), 229; III (1866), 532; S. F.
                            Chalfin, Assistant Adjustant General, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., July 15, 1864, to Alvin P. Hovey. Hovey Papers. Hovey's
                            Report of the Champion Hill's battle is in the Hovey Papers and also printed in
                            the War of the Rebellion (70 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1880–1901), Series 1, XXIV (1889), 40–46.
                  
                     17
                            
                                New York
                            , The Republic, January 22, 1890; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Sentinel, November 24, 1891.
               
                     he was assigned on September 14, 1864, to the command of the
                    military district of Indiana. His performance in this position was regarded very admirably by some,
                    others were just as prone to criticize. During his regime the case of Lambdin P. Milligan, a Knight
                    of the Golden Circle, was in the courts and became famous. It finally went to the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court, which handed down the decision that the civil law was superior to
                    military law in all places where the civil courts could be opened.18
            
            In all probability such unrest could even stretch the nerves of a Civil War general, and one year in
                    the command of the military district of Indiana was all Hovey cared for. Accordingly, he asked to be
                    relieved of military duty. This request was granted to become effective on October 7, 1865.19
            
            Before the above-mentioned wish had materialized, Hovey had been slated for a diplomatic mission to
                    South America. This must have appealed to him, for on August 12, 1865, he was appointed envoy
                    extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of the 
                        United States
                     to the government of 
                        Peru
                    . During the time that plans were being made for the journey to 
                        Peru
                    , his second wife, Rosa Alice, widow of Major William Carey of 
                        Cleveland
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , and daughter of Caleb B. Smith,20 became ill and died.21 Consequently, only his daughter, Esther, and two servants were mentioned in
                    the diplomatic passport issued on October 6, 1865. The party sailed from 
                        New York
                     on the "Henry Chauncey," on November 1 and arrived at 
                        Lima
                    , "The 
                        Paris
                     of South America," on November 16. While the General was searching for a
                    house, they were the guests of a Mr. Hobsen, a wealthy man from 
                        Baltimore
                    . Esther in writing to a girl friend in 
                        Mt. Vernon
                     gave a detailed account of the voyage and their experiences in 
                        Lima
                    . She apparently was quite impressed with the beautiful furnished house which 
                  
                     18 E. D. Townsend, 
                                Washington
                             D.C., September 14, 1864, to Alvin P. Hovey. Hovey Papers. This assignment is
                            also printed in the War of the Rebellion, Series 3, IV (1900), 717. Benn
                            Pitman (ed.), The Trials for Treason at 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , 1865); Felix G. Stidger, Treason History of the Order of Sons of
                                Liberty (
                                Chicago
                            , 1903); Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wallace, 2.
                  
                     19 Special Orders No. 64 dated October 9, 1865. Hovey Papers.
                  
                     20 Caleb B. Smith, a native of 
                                Massachusetts
                            , immigrated with his parents to 
                                Ohio
                             in 1814. He was educated in 
                                Ohio
                             and then settled in Indiana where he became a prominent political figure. In
                            1861 he was appointed secretary of the interior by President 
                                Lincoln
                            . Dictionary of the 
                                    United States
                                 Congress (
                                Washington
                            , 1864), 336.
                  
                     21
                            Hovey Book, 288.
               
                     became their home and those who assisted among whom were seven
                    servants, a French cook, head steward, and porters.22 At the time of their
                    arrival in 
                        Peru
                     a state of revolution existed and 
                        Spain
                     sought to overturn the existing government The General counseled with the Supreme
                    Chief, Mariano Ignacio Prado,23 and his cabinet. As a result of
                    Hovey's advice, the negotiations were carried out to engage in a battle with the Spanish
                    fleet. The Peruvians won the victory and were kindly disposed toward the 
                        United States
                     Minister.
            Hovey's post, however, was very difficult because 
                        Peru
                     was engaged in either a foreign war or internal revolutions during his stay.
                    Nevertheless, the populace and government recognized his many acts of personal kindness.24 Yet, five years in the diplomatic service to the country where confusion and
                    revolution were the fad convinced the General that he had been properly initiated as a diplomat. He
                    resigned and returned to the calm and peaceful life of southern Indiana to practice law.
            Back in the Hoosier State, however, some of his friends in 1872 were of the opinion that he should
                    utilize his talents in some other way than as an attorney in a small Indiana village. They wanted to
                    nominate him for governor, but he refused. After a rest of fourteen years, the immunity to public
                    office apparently had worn off and Hovey accepted the Republican nomination for Congress from the
                    first district and was elected. It is possible that he was willing to become their candidate because
                    he felt there was little chance of winning. After the election many wondered how it had happened and
                    various reasons were given. The successful candidate, however, attributed it to
                    "Hovey's babies" who had fought with him and their children who had
                    voted for him, although many were Democrats. This victory made an impression upon the 
                  
                     22 Esther Hovey, 
                        Lima,
                                    Peru
                     , to Mary 
                                Leavenworth
                            , 
                                Mt. Vernon
                            , Indiana, February 19, 1866. Hovey Papers.
                  
                     23 Mariano Ignacio Prado was born in 
                                Huanuco
                             in 1826 and died in 
                                Paris
                             in 1901. He was supreme chief of 
                                Peru
                             from 1865 to 1868, which office he had acquired through a revolution. On August
                            2, 1876 he was named the constitutional president. In 1879 he embarked for Europe on the
                            pretext to obtain arms. When Andrés Avelino C$aAceres was elected president in
                            June of 1886, he requested Prado to return to 
                                Lima
                            . Enciclopedia Universal Ilustrada, Europeo-Americana (70
                            vols., Barcelona, n.d), X, 256–57; XLVI, 1208–09; Clements R. Markham,
                                A History of 
                                    Peru
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1892), 359–65, 398, 428.
                  
                     24
                            
                                New York
                            , The Republic, January 22, 1890; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Sentinel, November 24, 1891.
               
                     General, and he was determined to do something for those who had
                    been loyal on the Civil War battlefields. As a congressman, therefore, he introduced the Service
                    Pension Bill which attracted nationwide attention,25 but due to the opposition
                    of the administration failed to pass.
            Although he had not succeeded in the passage of the Service Pension bill, the Kepublicans had not
                    lost confidence in him, for by 1888, Oliver C. Terry of 
                        Mt. Vernon
                     was certain that Hovey would be returned to Congress. Others were of the same opinion
                    because the first district had to be saved for the Republicans. When the Indiana State Republican
                    convention was held in that year, some of the General's friends, however, had him in mind
                    as a candidate for governor. Even though there were five aspirants for this office, he received the
                    nomination on the first ballot.26 That a majority of the people of his native
                    state endorsed this choice is indicated by the fact that Alvin P. Hovey became Indiana's
                    twentieth governor.
            No county in the entire state was more pleased with the results of this election than Posey, for its
                    favorite son had traveled from the log cabin to the governor's mansion. Celebrations took
                    place throughout the state, but the climax was reached at the time of the inaugural ball in
                    Tomlinson Hall, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , when "fair women and brave men … twirling in the mystic mazes of
                    the dance," were described by a society lady of national prominence as participating in
                    "the grandest affair ever witnessed outside of 
                        Washington
                     City." The local paper asked "what could keep the heart of a 
                        Posey County
                     citizen from swelling with pride and joy as he remembered that all that pomp and glory
                    was done in honor to a once poor lad who grew to manhood in our beloved 
                        Posey County
                    ?"27
            
            For some the highlight of January 14, 1889, may have been the ball. Those responsible for the
                    transaction of state affairs, however, were probably more impressed by the inaugural address which
                    mentioned a number of problems but 
                  
                     25
                            
                                New York
                            , The Republic, January 22, 1890; Alvin P. Hovey, The Rights of Soldiers of the 
                                    United States
                                 Who Served in the Late Rebellion (
                                Washington
                            , 1888).
                  
                     26 Oliver C. Terry, 
                                Mt. Vernon
                            , Indiana, to Jesse W. Weik, 
                                Greencastle
                            , Indiana, July 14, 1888. Herndon-Weik Collection of Lincolniana. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, August 9, 1888; 
                                New York
                            , The Republic, January 22, 1890. For a good account of the
                            1888 campaign see, R. Carlyle Buley, "The Campaign of 1888 in Indiana,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), X (June, 1914), 30–53.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Mt. Vernon
                            , Indiana, Weekly Sun, January 23, 1889.
               
                     stressed in particular the purity of the ballot box. Since an
                    act concerning elections was passed on March 6, 1889, the legislators must have accepted the
                    challenge and worked with considerable rapidity.28
            
            Still, Hovey was not destined to see all of his plans materialize, for on November 23, 1891, he died
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , after he occupied the chair of the chief executive of the state of Indiana less than
                    two years. The body was returned to 
                        Mt. Vernon
                     and laid to rest near the west entrance of Bellefontaine Cemetery.
            Autobiography29
            
            "My father, once a wealthy merchant of 
                        Vermont
                    , was reduced to poverty, by the War of 1812, and in the year 1815, to cover his
                    misfortunes, or at least to forget them as far as possible, removed with his family to the wilds of
                    the great North West, and settled on the banks of the 
                        Ohio
                    .30 Here, with the weight of his misfortunes, and a broken
                    constitution, he passed his life in comparative obscurity, and died in 1823, leaving my mother, with
                    the rich legacy of seven small children, and nothing to eat. The severe struggles with poverty, and
                    despondency, soon brought her to the bed of sickness and death, and my five sisters o[n]ly
                        brother,31 and myself were cast upon the world, to take care of ourselves.
                    Poverty, is commonplace cold and unromantic, and ragged boyhood, has but few charms. I will not
                    dwell upon this period of my life. At nine, I was master of my own fortunes, and launched upon the
                    broad ocean of the future. I have vivid recollections, of days of want and
                    privation—bright days of sport and hope—and sad, sad, and gloomy hours, when
                    the prospective future, would loom up before me. Whether my inate aspirations were 
                  
                     28
                            Indiana Laws, 1889, pp. 157–86. See pages 3–6 of the
                            "Inaugural Address of Hon. Alvin P. Hovey, Governor, and Hon. Ira J. Chase,
                            Lieutenant-Governor of Indiana," in the Indiana Documentary Journal,
                                1889.
                  
                     29 The Autobiography is in the Alvin P. Hovey Papers.
                  
                     30 According to the Hovey Book, Abiel Hovey was a
                            farmer and lived in Rutland, 
                                Vermont
                            , until 1812, then in Montpelier for two years, and in 
                                Middlebury
                             until 1818. In the latter year he removed to 
                                Posey County
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     31 The five sisters were Frances, Eliza, Amanda, Charlotte, and
                            Minerva. An older brother, John, was born in February, 1803, and died in April of the same
                            year. The brother here referred to was Charles born in 
                                Middlebury
                            , 
                                Vermont
                            , on April 19, 1816. He was killed by a cannon in 
                                Mt. Vernon
                             on January 9, 1862. Hovey Book, 227–28,
                        286.
               
                     to be realized, or whether my friendless and unprotected
                    condition, would lead me to disgrace and infamy, were questions, that even at that early day, caused
                    me many hours of refliction [sic] and sadness. From this period, until my
                    twe[l]fth year, I roamed at large, working or playing at my pleasure, or making sudden and laborious
                    inroads, upon the few books that might be found in our village. The ordinary branches of common
                    education, seemed to come to me by intuition, and I was regarded by my acquaintances, as being
                    'a very old boy of my age.' At this time, a teacher, of no ordinary talent,
                    the author of a work on English grammar, opened a high school, in my village, and I soon became
                    prominent, as one of its most promising students. My compositions, were regarded in the most
                    favorable light, and I was held up, as a genius, that might one day, Do honor to my preceptor. The
                    School, was liberally patronized, its pupils numbering nearly one hundred girls and boys, between
                    the ages of eight and twenty.
            "Here, the first tender emotions of my heart were awakened, by a dark eyed fairy looking
                    child four years my junior. I look back at her now, as she then stood in the old school room
                    —white panties—sky blue dress a little below the knee, and snow white collar,
                    neatly fitted to her slender neck—with dark lustrous eyes—pale
                    face—light brown hair—coral lips—with her slender frail form, and
                    voice of band like music, and ask myself, whether even angels could be more beautiful than that
                    fairy like child? Anna Lowry,32 born in the South, had but recently become a
                    member of our village. Her father, had accumulated considerable property in 
                        Louisiana
                    , in mercantile transactions, and for the purpose of saving the lives of two children,
                    who were his idols, had been advised to remove to a more bracing latitude, and had but a short time
                    since become a resident. For hours, in that old school room, would my book lay neglected on my lap,
                    whilst my whole soul would revel in dreams of the future—dreams, in which little Anna,
                    was ever the central thought, and day star. How could I win her? How could I deserve so pure and
                    fair a being? How could I the poor r[a]gged boy, who had no one to assist, and nothing to 
                  
                     32 Relatives are of the opinion that the Anna Lowry here referred to
                            was Mary Ann James, later to become Mrs. Hovey. Her mother's maiden name was
                            Lowry. There was a William Lowry, brother of Esther Lowry James, who lived in 
                                Mt. Vernon
                             and had two daughters, Mary and Ann Grace, but they were both born in Indiana.
                            At the time of the 1850 Census they were 10 and 7 years of age. See footnote 9 for more
                            detailed information on the James family.
               
                     lean upon in the future, but my own strong will—how
                    could I hope, to link my fate with hers, and claim her for my own? A deep and impassable gulf seemed
                    to separate us, but I was resolved that that gulf should not prove impassable for me. Daring
                    resolve—bold boy—I had not then read that 'fools rush in, where
                    angels dare not tread.'
            "Time, with his rapid wing, had flown over the great period of twelve months, and found me,
                    at the end of the year, much improved. I began to realize my condition, and felt much flattered, by
                    the praises bestowed upon me, by my teacher. But how should I pay him? I had no money, and felt too
                    proud to acknowledge it, to the man who had appealed so successfully to my vanity. Hours of real
                    pain, and mental suffering ensued, and I was at length relieved, by being able to borrow, a few
                    dollars from an older student, which enabled me to discharge my debt. Never did a son of Mammon,
                    enjoy the use of gold, so much. I actually shed tears, at my delivery, from what I regarded, as a
                    great disgrace.
            "At fourteen, my physical development was such, as to give me the appearance of manhood, and
                    for many months succeeding I almost reveled in the wild sports of the country. For days, alone, with
                    my gun I penetrated the dense wilds around the village, in search of game, and would return, with
                    the fruits of my labor, with all the pride, of a roman conqu[e]ror. How I enjoyed those solitary
                    hunts, communing with nature! What bright dreams, and reverie would float before me! With a small
                    volume, of ancient heroic poetry—the Calliope. I would while away the hours, under some
                    shady tree, and dream, that I would some day rival the Knights of Arthur's table round.
                    Deep was my sympathy, for Sir James the Ross, who fought the haughty Greame, for his fair
                        Matilda.33 Sir Launcelot, filled my mind with all the wild pathos of
                    chivalry, and the sorrowful tale, of the Hermit of Wark-worth,34 would soften my
                    heart, and sprinkle the page with 
                  
                     33 For "Sir James the Ross," an ancient historical
                            ballad, see, Alexander B. Grosart (ed.), The Works of Michael Bruce
                            (Edinburgh, 1865), 197–205; 258–60. John Logan published the ballad in
                            1770. It was enclosed in a letter by Michael Bruce to David Pearson.
                  
                     34 The Hermit of Warkworth," a Northumberland ballad, may be
                            found in Thomas Percy, Reliques of Ancient English Poetry (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1856), 435–45. This ballad was first published in 1771 and is very
                            characteristic of the eighteenth century. The first edition of the Reliques was published in 1765 in three volumes. Dictionary of National
                                Biography (63 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1885–1900), XLIV (1895), 437–39.
               
                     tears! Oh what a world is Fancy's relam [sic] and how happy are they, that dwell within its vales! In those hours, of exquisite
                    luxury, I would immagine [sic] myself, the hero of like adventures. If little
                    Anna, should be enchanted, or stolen away, by Sprites, or fairies, I would break the spell, and
                    rescue her from thralldom.
            "The Childe of Elle's Emeline,35 was not as fair as she, and
                    I would willingly break a hundred lances, to win her to my love. No Squire of Dames, would dare what
                    I would, for the love of that fairy girl. With such dreams, time rolled on, but never one smile,
                    look or word, that led me to suppose, that she ever thought of me, save as a poor sprightly student.
                    True, I had made pictures on her papers, and on the backs of her covered books, and she had thanked
                    me for them, with her more than winning smiles. I had watched her, at her plays, helped her in every
                    opportunity, and praised her for her little songs, and winning arts, but her only return, was her
                    approval, that filled my soul with delirium and hope!
            "It now became necessary, that I should resort to some means, of procuring a livelihood, and
                    for several months, I was employed as a clerk, or salesman, in a little shop, kept for the sale of
                    groceries, and merchandize. Faithfully did I perform my trust, but filled every leisure hour, in
                    pouring over the classic authors of English poetry. I lived in a world all my own, and all its
                    bright imagery had allusion and reference, to my boyish love. Years sped, and I was in the same
                    vocation, and drawing the same bright visions but no nearer my hopes than the first hour that my
                    heart owned her power. Something must be done, to win her—something, to lift me from
                    obscurity and place me at least upon equal terms with herself.
            "She had now reached womanhood, and was the acknowledged beauty, of the country far and
                    wide. Still pale, fragile, spiritual, her dark soft eyes, sank deep and and deeper, into my soul.
                    Regularly, was I found, at the church, she attended, not to worship my God, but to gaze enraptured
                    into her face, and worship at the shrine of my boyhood's love.
            "For many days and nights my soul was sick with the hopelessness of the future. I well knew
                    that as a mere shop keeps clerk my hopes could never be realized and that I should be compelled to
                    abandon the dearest dream of my life or occupy 
                  
                     35 For "The Child of Elle" see, Percy, Reliques of Ancient English Poetry, 87–89.
               
                     a more exalted position in the estimation of the world. At this
                    time society had undergone a great change, and the once little quiet village, had assumed the
                    proportions of a western city. Wealth and power would enter the lists against me, and I was
                    determined to win as my future happiness was at stake. After many hours of thought upon the changes
                    around me and the necessity for greater progress, I determined to apply to Esqr Pitcher an eminent
                    lawyer of the city for the use of his books. Accordingly I addressed him a note couched in humble
                    terms asking as a great favor that I might be permitted to read his books and promising eternal
                    gratitude and future rewards. My note was unanswered and weeks of mortification and anxiety ensued.
                    I thought then that his silence and coldness was very cruel and hoped that I might some day be able
                    to show some striving student that my heart could feel for those who might be placed in a similar
                    condition. Rest had left me and my will could not submit to refusal so I determined to visit him in
                    person and make my application for his friendly aid. On the ensuing day I visited his library with
                    all the solicitude that a criminal feels awaiting the judgment of the Court. In a few brief words I
                    again made known my wishes. I saw in his cold clear grey eyes that he regarded me with no great
                    favor and that he deemed my success as almost impossible. He gave me a long lecture on the
                    impossibility of succeeding at the bar without immense labor and great talent, and asserted that
                    every other calling[,] trade or art afforded greater inducements.36 He read in
                    my down cast mortified look and trembling hands the anxiety I felt and I could see that he felt for
                    me, and his eye seemed to say I will give him a trial that will dispel his delusions. He arose and
                    going to his shelves hand[ed] me one of the oldest books of the profession. The backs had been torn
                    off and the Corners turned down. I took it with thankfulness and retired. I at once procured a
                    chamber in the second story of an unoccupied building and with my full heart devoted myself night
                    and day to the resolve that I would succeed and make myself fully master of the profession upon
                    which I had just entered."
            
               
                  36 Judge Pitcher at the age of ninety-six remarked to Governor Ira J.
                        Chase, former Governor Albert G. Porter, and Isaac P. Gray when they called on him in 
                            Mt. Vernon
                         that Hovey "came into this world right end first." Undated
                        clipping from the 
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana, Journal. Hovey Papers.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               John C. Calhoun, Sectionalist, 1840–1850. By Charles M. Wiltse. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Bobbs-Merrill Company, Inc., 1951, pp. 592. End maps, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, and index. $6.00.)
            The publication of the Sectionalist volume of Charles M. Wiltse's John C. Calhoun completes a monumental task which the author began a decade ago.
                    It is a worthy companion to Calhoun the Nationalist (1944) and Calhoun the Nullifier (1949). Separately the segments are unified treatments of well-defined
                    periods of the South Carolinian's career; collectively they are a continuous narrative of
                    a significant era and a full-length portrait of one of its dominant personalities. They are
                    biography in the term's expansive sense, for they successfully combine an excellent
                    political history of the forty years from 1810 to 1850 with the subject's contributions
                    unobtrusively mirrored against events and movements. There are many pages in which the chief actor
                    remains off-stage, but the reader is constantly aware that he will soon reappear, sometimes alone,
                    sometimes in company with other giants of the period, sometimes with lesser folk whose local
                    interests are necessary in building the whole structure. The result is a happy balance between
                    biography and history.
            The Calhoun that emerges from Wiltse's sympathetic presentation of the last decade of his
                    career is a noble figure, whether as senator, presidential candidate, secretary of state, plantation
                    master, or southern sentinel. Political skill, resolute purpose, and amazing intellect combined to
                    provide the Carolinian with impressive leadership throughout the 1840's. His
                    "clearly reasoned" speech on the tariff of 1842 was "so dispassionate and
                    devoid of partisan bias that he might have been a visitor from the other side of the globe
                    demonstrating the solution of a problem in mathematics." His 
                        Oregon
                     address elicited "messages of praise," especially from the North. The
                    speech against the acquisition of 
                        Mexico
                    , delivered to a full house and crowded galleries, forced the administration to disclaim
                    any purpose of annexing the whole country.
            The author is convinced that Calhoun was the favorite presidential candidate as the campaign of 1844
                    got under way. Ever since the publication of Robert Barnwell Rhett's 1854  letter to Richard Crallé, biographers and historians have
                    accepted Rhett's statement that Calhoun wrote the campaign Life which
                    appeared early in 1843. Wiltse challenges this view and presents a plausible case for other
                    authorship. His "personal guess" is that Joseph A. Scoville expanded the sketch
                    published by Virgil Maxcy in 1831, that Calhoun's daughter Anna Clemson drafted the
                    1831–1843 portion, and that Robert M. T. Hunter revised the whole manuscript and thus
                    actually became its author.
            Calhoun's role in the great debate of 1850 becomes more understandable under
                    Wiltse's careful analysis. He prefaces a discussion on Henry Clay's measures
                    with an evaluation of Calhoun's Disquisition on Government and the Discourse on the Constitution and Government of the 
                            United States
                        
               . The Carolinian's sincerity and genuine hope for a continuation of
                    the Union are apparent in his conferences with Daniel Webster before either addressed the Senate.
                    Each knew what the other would say, and Calhoun believed that his speech would leave the door open
                    to compromise. His address, read by Senator James M. Mason, was predicated upon the Disquisition's philosophy and the Discourse's
                    premises, and demanded of the North a constitutional amendment to guarantee southern rights. But
                    Calhoun did not indicate what guarantee he would insist upon; it has been wrongly assumed, Wiltse
                    asserts, that only a dual executive, elaborated in the Disquisition, would satisfy
                    him. He was merely opening the southern side of the debate, and withheld a specific demand until
                    Webster replied, after which an agreement might emanate from "general discussion."
                    True, Calhoun had issued an ultimatum, but according to himself, and to Wiltse, the alternative was
                    not disunion.
            Perhaps it is inappropriate to label any work as definitive, but certainly Mr. Wiltse's
                    volumes approach that stature. The 1,500 pages of distinguished prose are based upon a significant
                    array of manuscript collections, a fair sampling of newspapers, and all but a few of the pertinent
                    books and articles. No one will need to rewrite Calhoun on so large a scale in this generation.
            
                    Tulane University
                
            Wendell H. Stephenson
         
         
            
               Origins of the New South, 1877–1918. By C. Vann Woodward. A History of the South, IX, edited by Wendell H.  Stephenson and E. Merton Coulter. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press and the Littlefield Fund for Southern History of the University
                    of 
                        Texas
                    , 1951. Pp. xi, 542. Illustrations, index, bibliography. $6.50.)
            Students of Southern history who applauded Vann Woodward's Tom Watson:
                        Agrarian Rebel will not be disappointed in his Origins of the New South,
                        1877–1913. Treating the difficult period between Reconstruction and the modern
                    South, Woodward has brought the myriad factors and conflicting forces of the South's
                    history into focus and for the first time the post-Reconstruction period takes on a clarity and
                    meaning comparable to earlier periods of Southern history. In the best traditions of modern
                    historical scholarship, the author conceives of history in the broad sense and treats economic and
                    social developments equally as extensively as political.
            Like Woodward's earlier book on Watson, this volume is characterized by boldly stated and
                    impressively developed theses. In the first chapter, the author states a thesis that becomes a
                    controlling consideration in much of the material that follows. In his own words: "It was
                    not the Radicals nor the Confederates but the Redeemers [the leaders in the restoration of home rule
                    and white control in the South] who laid the lasting foundations in matters of race, politics,
                    economics, and law for the modern South." His picture of the Redeemers, however, is not the
                    conventional one. Rather they are led by a group of former Whigs with industrial, commercial, and
                    capitalistic interests. In one of the book's most interesting chapters, "The
                    Forked Road to Reunion," Woodward advances a reinterpretation of the Compromise of 1877 in
                    the disputed Presidential election of 1876. He contends that economic considerations were paramount
                    in the decision of Southern Redeemers not to contest Hayes' claim to the
                    Presidency—assurances from the Hayes group of support for railroads, 
                        Mississippi
                     levees, patronage, etc. Thus Southern conservatives made the choice for their section.
                    Instead of taking the "left fork" to reunion by joining the West, the South took
                    the right fork and joined the industrial, capitalistic East. Subsequent chapters trace the
                    consequences of that choice in dominance of the South for a generation by the conservative
                    Redeemers; Woodward removes from them the halo of scrupulous honesty in public life which historians
                    have too uncritically accepted and conferred upon them.
            
            Several chapters deal with major economic developments of the period—the rise of industry,
                    the condition of agriculture, the farm movements, the status of labor, and exploitation of the South
                    by outside capital. Woodward correctly casts doubt upon the adequacy of "moral
                    incitement" as the major factor in the growth of the Southern textile industry, but a full
                    and accurate account of the locational factor in Southern textiles still awaits a fuller account of
                    the entire movement as does any definitive appraisal of the profitableness of the industry during
                    the post-Civil War period. Selections of a few examples of large profits may not necessarily be
                    representative. Equally important is the answer to the question of how many failed and why?
                    Woodward's chapter on "The Colonial Economy" is an excellent picture of
                    the control of Southern economic life by outside capital. While admitting the benefits of
                    industrialism, he emphasizes the "colonialism" of the system.
                    Woodward's sympathetic treatment of Southern Populism might lead one to the conclusion
                    that the Populist program held the solution for the ills of the agrarian South. Yet, throughout the
                    volume the author reverts to poverty as the core of the South's problems. Certainly, the
                    New South advocates were somewhat naive in their view of industry as a panacea and unblushing in
                    their embracing of outside capital; nevertheless, no one has yet demonstrated how the basic Southern
                    problem of poverty can be eradicated without industrialization, despite the efforts of the Southern
                    agrarians and I'll Take My Stand.
            There is not space here to comment on other large themes that Woodward handles
                    interestingly—the tragic story of the Negro; "The Divided Mind of the
                    South" which readily accepted the New Order of industrialism, capitalism, and materialism,
                    while at the same time paying obeisance to the "Old South" that never was; the
                    Progressive movement of the early twentieth century South, too little considered by students of
                    progressivism in the nation. Highly informative and of great value to the student of the South
                    during this period is the author's excellent critical essay on authorities. Not only is
                    Woodward's volume one of the best modern works on the post-Civil War South, but its
                    readers will be all the more impatient to read the rest of the story in Rupert Vance's
                    tenth volume in the series on The Present South.
            
                    University of 
                            North Carolina
                        
               
                
            J. Carlyle Sitterson
         
         
         
            
               Captain Dauntless: The Story of Nicholas Biddle of the Continental Navy. By
                    William Bell Clark. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1949, pp. x, 317. Illustrations, bibliography, index, and
                    appendix. $4.50.)
            This book is in fact a biography of Nicholas Biddle, a captain in the Continental Navy during the
                    first three years of the American Revolution. A biography of a first-rate-historical personage, such
                    as 
                        Washington
                     or Napoleon may sometimes be the thread upon which to string the complete history of a
                    period. This biography is not used as the pretext for writing a general history of the naval
                    operations during the years of the Revolution, but it does give the reader a better understanding of
                    many important aspects of the war on the sea and of its bearing upon the total conflict than an
                    attempt at a general treatise could do. In the course of the narrative numberless incidents,
                    conditions and other details confront Captain Biddle with life and death importance in his
                    operations. But these details are typical of the problems that confronted the seamen of his day.
                    Here is a good illustration of the study of the universal in the study of the particular.
            Biddle's domestic background was that of the upper middle class colonial. His early
                    experience at sea was with the ship's captain who participated in the building of the
                    ship, owned it in whole or in part, procured his seamen, laid out his trade route, commanded his
                    vessel, and bought and sold as he went from port to port along his route. This was typical.
                    Biddle's period of service in the British Royal Navy, though in time of peace, gave him
                    needed experience with naval discipline and tradition. His naval experiences during the Revolution
                    ran almost the entire gamut. He was involved in the confused relations between the committees of the
                    Continental Congress and the governments of the different states each building and fitting out
                    ships, issuing letters of marque, appointing officers, and issuing directives. Biddle served first
                    with the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     galleys, then was successively in command of a Continental brig and frigate and finally
                    occupied the rather anomolous position of being at the same time captain of a Continental frigate
                    and commander of a 
                        South Carolina
                     squadron.
            The reader, through the experiences of Biddle is made aware of where the sea lanes were along which
                    came the cargo ships from 
                        England
                     and the West Indies bringing vital supplies  to the
                    British armies in the colonies and those lanes along which the colonial ships sailed to get
                    munitions and supplies for the colonials. He becomes acquainted with the character and quality of
                    the crews that Biddle commanded. They were composed of a few capable and reliable men, a few won by
                    promise of bounty money, others by the hope of sharing in the division of prize ships and cargoes, a
                    few more were prisoners taken from British ships and either persuaded or forced to serve on American
                    ships, and finally, a few more were jailbirds and Negro slaves.
            A review is supposed to point out some error. With this in mind it is suggested that Peyton 
                        Randolph
                     hailed from 
                        Virginia
                     instead of 
                        South Carolina
                    . This slip is rather startling, with some serious implications. The narrative is
                    interesting. It is a story of action, suspense and danger. The author understands the thing that he
                    is writing about: ships, seamanship, and naval action of the Revolutionary period. He has read
                    intelligently the documentary material relating to the subject and has given adequate footnotes.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Albert L. Kohlmeier
         
         
            
               Essays in Modern European History. Edited by John J. Murray. Social Science
                    Series, No. 10, Indiana University Publications (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University, 1951, pp. 150. Portraits. Paper edition, $2.25; cloth edition,
                    $3.50.)
            "The end of the voyage at last!" So wrote William Thomas Morgan upon the completion
                    of his monumental Bibliography of British History, 1700–1715. So might
                    the reviewer treat of these Essays in Modern European History dedicated to the
                    memory of the late Professor Morgan by the authors, his students. But it is one of the great
                    felicities of the teaching profession that the very dedication belies itself in seven articles which
                    still further extend the lines of inquiry pursued by Morgan at Indiana University.
            Of the man and his work little need be said. The appreciation of his university has been graciously
                    expressed by President Herman B Wells in a preface to this volume. The editor has provided a sketch
                    of Morgan's career as a student, as the winner of the Herbert B. Adams prize in 1919, and
                    as  an internationally honored professor of European history at 
                        Bloomington
                     for twenty-seven years. With his passing in 1946, the historical profession
                    "lost a most dutiful and devoted son, and Indiana … lost an excellent teacher.
                    Yet neither were complete losers, for Professor Morgan will always live in the minds of historians
                    and in the hearts of his students. He has already taken his place as part of the tradition of
                    Indiana University. … Future generations will profit by his scholarship … but
                    they will unfortunately be denied the joyous stimulation which was only to be had through personal
                    contact with the man."
            The essays which compose this memorial admirably reflect the interests of their intellectual sponsor.
                    Two articles delve into the politics of Queen Anne's reign, a field in which Morgan was
                    the unrivaled master. Drawing upon a wealth of pamphlets and parliamentary materials, Doris M. Reed
                    follows the fortunes—or more exactly the misfortunes—of "The Tackers
                    in the Election of 1705." Political principle was seldom a decisive factor in eighteenth
                    century elections, but Miss Reed clearly indicates the disastrous effect upon its supporters of the
                    attempted tacking of Occasional Conformity to the 1704 Land Tax Bill. Catherine E.
                    Langford's essay on "The British General Election of 1713" is more
                    ambitious in scope but lacks the nice completeness of the preceding article. Miss Langford unveils
                    many interesting scenes from an election which was marked by the usual amenities, but never quite
                    flood-lights the entire stage. The Tory victory is attributed to popular approval of the peace, 
                        Oxford
                    's political skill, and royal patronage, but the importance of the Protestant
                    succession as an issue is left as beclouded for the modern reader as it was for the contemporary
                    elector. The author has amply demonstrated the need for further studies of this type and of this
                    particular election. A primary objective would seem to be the determination of the results of the
                    polling in terms of actual membership in the House of Commons.
            While politicians fought for loaves and fishes at home, English seamen built and defended an empire.
                    Robert H. Irrmann touches upon the career of a great naval leader in his essay "Gallia
                    Frustra: Edward Russell and the Attempted Jacobite Invasion of 1696." In that year William
                    III was marked for assassination and French forces were assembled along the Channel. But the king
                    was forewarned and Admiral  Russell forearmed. The French
                    refrained from offering battle to superior English forces and this threat, like so many others, came
                    to naught. There was nothing exceptional in Russell's guard-mount, though much
                    illustrative of English defensive tactics, and even Irrmann is at a loss to find any
                    "remote implications" in his hero's last sea action. As the First Lord
                    of the Admiralty retired to the beach, however, younger officers sailed afar. John J. Murray follows
                    the wake of Commodore John Norris as he tersely describes "Anglo-French Naval Skirmishing
                    off Newfoundland, 1697." Except that Norris was shackled by a divided command and faulty
                    reconnaissance the episode might be termed a comedy of errors. The loot of Cartagena slipped through
                    Norris' fingers as he dug in at St. John's, but his presence there safeguarded
                    the colony from utter destruction at the hands of a powerful French battle fleet which was awed by
                    his preparations. The negotiators at Ryswick had already guaranteed British Newfoundland, however,
                    and the hapless Commodore's reward was loss of his command! But then
                    "Foul-weather Jack" Norris was never noted for his good luck. That same ingredient
                    was noticeably lacking in the career of Daniel Parke, the storm-center of Ruth M.
                    Bourne's "Anitgua, 1710: Revolution in Microcosm." Parke, who brought
                    Queen Anne the news of Blenheim, was the "dissolute, arrogant, avaricious"
                    governor of the largest and richest of the Leeward Islands. He was "a self-seeking placeman
                    on the one hand, and, on the other, a brave and loyal defender of the royal prerogative in the
                    plantations." To say that those he sought to govern were little worse or that
                    Parke's loyalty bordered on stupidity is not to extenuate but rather to explain why, on
                    December 7, 1710, the governor was seized by a mob and most viciously done to death. Miss Bourne
                    finds at base such factors as colonial opposition, the mercantile system, and demands for
                    self-government and the rights of Englishmen, but wisely she does not push them to the fore. Parke
                    was his own excuse for a revolution in microcosm.
            The last two essays in this volume deal with Anglo-French diplomacy. James E. Swain's
                    "Talleyrand and the Independence of 
                        Belgium
                    " comes from the French and English archives and adheres closely to the
                    dispatch boxes. In evaluating the work of the Parisian emissary to St. James the author declares:
                    "the legend that Talleyrand engineered the settlement for 
                        Belgium
                    , that he carried it through single  handed, and that
                    he dominated all the sessions is utterly without support." He is portrayed as a feeble old
                    man who went home admitting defeat. Along a quite different tangent David White Trafford approaches
                    "The Ruhr and French Security as Reflected by the British and French Presses,
                    1923." This is a study of opinion expressed in some twenty newspapers concerning the
                    occupation of the Ruhr by the French army. The tortuous course of diplomacy is meticulously
                    paralleled by press comment, and the result is a clear picture of post-war English feeling toward a
                    late ally.
            
               Essays in Modern European History concludes with a list of the
                    "Publications of Professor William T. Morgan"—five books and fifty
                    articles—and the names of twenty-six "Students who received degrees under
                    Professor Morgan's direction and their theses' titles." John J.
                    Murray, who has capably succeeded to Morgan's position at Indiana University is to be
                    commended upon a thorough editorial assignment and the presentation of an almost faultless text. His
                    selection of essays has produced a volume both interesting and valuable—a worthy tribute
                    to the man whose scholarship and teaching ties the whole together in memoriam.
            
                    
                        
                            Alabama
                         Polytechnic Institute
                
            Robert R. Rea
         
         
            
               The 
                            Georgia
                        
                        
                            Florida
                         Frontier, 1793–1796: Spanish Reaction to French Intrigue and American
                        Designs. By Richard K. Murdoch. Volume 40, University of 
                        California
                    
                    Publications in History. (
                        Berkeley
                     and 
                        Los Angeles
                    : University of 
                        California
                     Press, 1951, pp. ix, 208. Bibliography and index. $2.00.)
            Murdoch's study is a careful, detailed analysis, based upon wide research of the events on
                    the 
                        Florida
                    - 
                        Georgia
                     border, 1793–1796. In 1793, the French consul at 
                        Charleston
                    , Citizen Mangourit, representing Genet, elaborated plans for the invasion of 
                        Florida
                     and recruited prominent Georgians including General Elijah Clark. These failed, but
                    Governor Quesada on the alert prepared for the attack by arresting French sympathizers, removing
                    settlers from the frontier, seeking aid at Havana, placating the Creeks, and protesting to Governor
                    Mathews of 
                        Georgia
                    . Murdoch portrays well here and throughout the book the unusual abilities of the
                    Spanish governor.
            
            Hardly had this threat evaporated when Elijah Clark attempted a settlement in the Creek country
                    beyond the Oconee River. Here the author skillfully reveals the conflict between the federal
                    government and 
                        Georgia
                    , ambitious Americans seeking land irrespective of Indians or Spaniards, the bearing of
                    the incident upon the relation of 
                        Spain
                     and the 
                        United States
                    , and the capacity of Quesada to defend Spanish interests. The remainder of the study
                    details with care incidents of similar character until peace is established in 1796.
            The chief contribution of the book is the expert handling of details in "an examination of a
                    small bit of the vast mosaic (of American history…." Although the author views
                    his work with a westward look, his study has its chief significance as an aspect of the southward
                    expansion of the 
                        United States
                    . As such it is directly related to the colonial history of this movement, the
                    fundamental insights of which are portrayed in the writings of Mary Ross, Herbert E. Bolton, and
                    John T. Lanning. With this broad base included in his first chapter, his work would have been
                    naturally linked with an expanding frontier and international conflict much older than the western
                    movement. This comment, however, should not detract from the fine workmanship of the study.
            
                    University of 
                            Alabama
                        
               
                
            Alfred B. Thomas
         
         
            
               The Establishment of Canadian Diplomatic Status at 
                            Washington
                        
               . By John S. Galbraith. Volume 41, University of 
                        California
                    
                    Publications in History. (
                        Berkeley
                     and 
                        Los Angeles
                    : University of 
                        California
                     Press, 1951, pp. xi, 119. Bibliography and index. $1.25.)
            Galbraith states that his study is "an attempt to examine in some detail one important
                    aspect of Canadian national growth—the inauguration of diplomatic relations with the 
                        United States
                    ." Of five chapters, four are devoted to the history of the assumption by 
                        Canada
                     of control over its external representation and the achievement of international
                    status, the fifth to the actual establishment of diplomatic representation between 
                        Ottawa
                     and 
                        Washington
                    . The story recounted in the first four chapters is in general a familiar one. Galbraith
                    tells it faithfully, with some freshness, and in particular makes worthwhile use of Canadian
                    parliamentary debates on external representation.
            
            It is, however, in the fifth chapter that both material and argument are most rewarding.
                    Galbraith's account of the winning of the right to appoint a Canadian minister to 
                        Washington
                     in 1920, and of the failure to do so until 1927, is, though obviously not the whole
                    story, the most convincing yet published. George P. de T. Glazebrook in his History of
                        Canadian External Relations (
                        Toronto
                    , 1950) is, on this theme, much less satisfactory.
            Galbraith's work is to be commended for sound judgment and a high degree of accuracy.
                    Errors noted are few and slight. One only deserves mention here; Clifford Sifton resigned from the
                    Laurier cabinet in 1905 on the issue of the Autonomy Bills, not on reciprocity in 1911 (p. 63). And
                    it may be worthwhile to note that the length of the Canadian-American frontier is 5,400 miles, not
                    the conventional 3,000 p. 59).
            The sources cited for the study bring to mind one question; why do students of Canadian external
                    policy abstain from using State Department sources? The present reviewer does not know, but surely 
                        Washington
                     Archives have something to contribute to the story of the establishment of Canadian
                    diplomatic status at 
                        Washington
                    .
            
                    University of 
                            Manitoba
                        
               
                
            W. L. Morton
         
         
            
               Midwestern Progressive Politics: A Historical Study of Its Origins and Development,
                        1870–1950. By Russel B. Nye. (East Lansing: 
                        Michigan
                     State College Press, 1951, pp. 422. Bibliography, illustrations, and index. $4.50.)
            In this survey of midwestern "radicalism" the author presents a synthesis of farmer
                    protest movements from the days of the Grangers to the present. Nye's thesis is that
                    Midwest Progressivism is a unique phenomenon that stretches unbroken "from
                    'Sockless Jerry' Simpson, Donnelly, Bryan, and 'old Bob'
                    La Follette" and presumably to "young Bob" and Henry Wallace (p. 1). It
                    is an "essentially common-sense, agrarian, frontier radicalism, a thoroughly indigenous
                    compound of various elements in midwestern history." "There is nothing else quite
                    like it in the world" (p. 2). This theme, though at times strained, is the central thread
                    of the entire narrative.
            
            The account contributes little new information and apparently is in no part based on original
                    research or manuscript material. The bibliography and chapter references, however, list most of the
                    standard monographs and texts dealing with the subject and include a wide variety of periodicals.
                    Nye's style is forceful and pleasing and the story moves smoothly holding the interest of
                    the reader. The first four chapters which deal with the period before 1900, in my opinion, are the
                    best. There the author catches the spirit of what is a truly indigenous, agrarian movement of
                    protest and reform which crusaded under various names and labels in the post-civil war decades. The
                    more complex movements of the twentieth century are not so deftly handled.
            Many readers will quarrel with both the author's general thesis and some of his specific
                    facts. The combining of appeals to both agriculture and labor with intellectual leadership is the
                    key to the success of the Progressives as opposed to the Populists but seemingly is only dimly seen
                    by Nye. Much of the narrative in the chapter on "Progressivism at Flood Tide"
                    revolves about Robert M. La Follette, Sr., but "fighting Bob's" history
                    seems to be imperfectly understood. For example, the election of La Follette to the governorship in
                    1900 does not look like such a great victory over the bosses when the support of stalwart leaders
                    such as McKinley-henchman Henry C. Payne, Congressman Joseph W. Babcock, manufacturer Emanuel
                    Philipp, and multi-millionaire Isaac Stephenson is understood and evaluated (p. 214). In 1905, La
                    Follette did not fill a vacancy in the 
                        United States
                     Senate due to the death of Joseph V. Quarles, he simply defeated him for re-election.
                    Quarles remained much alive until 1911 (p. 216). And it is inaccurate to say that "La
                    Follette set up the State Board of Public Affairs" (p. 218). That Board represented one of
                    the accomplishments of Francis E. McGovern.
            In the chapter on "Betrayal and Survival, 1908–1920," Nye discusses both
                    the "Bull-Moose-Progressive" effort of T. R. in 1912 and Woodrow
                    Wilson's progressive "New Freedom" program but does not note that here
                    is "Midwestern Progressivism" grown large. It had become national in scope. This
                    same chapter ends on an unsatisfactory note as the author sloughs off the whole story of the decline
                    and submergence of the Progressive movement during the first World War in less than one page. The
                    last chapter is rather thin. It is a bit difficult to focus attention on the Midwest when the
                    heritage of  Progressivism had passed to Hyde Park and the New
                    Dealers.
            For the general reader, Midwestern Progressive Politics will provide an interesting
                    and readable account of a continuing fundamental reform drive in American history. The historian
                    will regret that Nye did not "dig deeper and broader" into the problem.
            
                    University of 
                            Kentucky
                        
               
                
            Robert S. Maxwell
         
         
            
               Amerikanische Dichter und die deutsche Literatur. By J. Wesley Thomas. (Goslar:
                    Volksbuecherei Verlag, 1950, pp. 176. Bibliography and index. $1.80.)
            Professor Thomas' book tells, in broad outlines, the story of the influence that German
                    letters have exerted on American writers and thinkers during three and a half centuries. Discussing
                    first the early New 
                        England
                     contacts with 
                        German
                     books and thought, Professor Thomas then devotes seven chapters to the nineteenth
                    century—to 
                        New York
                     writers such as Charles Brockden Brown, Irving, Cooper, and Bryant; to the precursors
                    of Transcendentalism (among them, Everett, Ticknor, and Bancroft); to the Transcendentalists
                    themselves and their relation to 
                        German
                     Romanticism (Emerson, Margaret Fuller, etc.). Speaking of the Southern authors,
                    Professor Thomas indicates that it was particularly Poe who went to 
                        German
                     literature for some of the plots of his short stories. Among the writers in the
                    "genteel tradition" who show contacts with 
                        German
                     letters, Longfellow, Motley, and Melville are mentioned; Lessing's influence
                    on 
                        Lowell
                     as well as Goethe's and Jean Paul's importance to the American
                    literary scene from 1835 to 1865 are discussed more fully. The next two chapters treat the three
                    "experimental" poets (Whitman, Emily Dickinson, and Lanier) and the
                    "gilded age," in which Bayard Taylor, Mark Twain, Howell, and Henry
                    James—idealists and realists alike—occupy a significant place in the
                    appreciation and transplanting of 
                        German
                     culture. After a brief evaluation of the movement of the 
                        St. Louis
                     Hegelians (William Torrey Harris et al.) and their influence on
                    American thought, the book concludes with a chapter on the twentieth century.
            The record of 
                        German
                     letters in America is impressive, and yet Professor Thomas has been careful in not
                    overstating  his case. Basing his work on investigations of
                    numerous scholars in the field, he has written an interesting and vivid account of 
                        German
                    -American literary and cultural relations. Where previous investigations are not
                    available, he suggests influences and connections which more detailed research is likely to bear
                    out. Only rarely is he unconvincing when he cites a "probable" 
                        German
                     source for an American work.
            Of course, Professor Thomas is fully aware of the many gaps that exist in the history of the
                    intellectual and literary relationship of the two countries under discussion, and his study
                    indicates the areas in which additional research is to be done. The picture is particularly
                    incomplete in the twentieth century. The impact of the recent 
                        German
                     refugee writers on American literature is perhaps too early to evaluate fully; it is,
                    however, an important chapter in 
                        German
                    -American relations which awaits careful study.
            The tremendous influence that Goethe has exercised far into the present century is merely touched
                    upon. A full treatment of Thomas Wolfe and a full treatment of Santayana, to mention only two
                    examples, could well be included here. Oliver Alden, the hero of Santayana's The Last 
                            Puritan
                        
               , is imbued with 
                        German
                     culture by his governess, Irman Schlote, "a priestess of the Goethe
                    cult." Almost all of Thomas Wolfe's writings show evidence that the American
                    felt close to the 
                        German
                     sage. In a little known essay, "
                        Brooklyn
                    , Europe, and I," Wolfe described his trip to the Goethe house in Weimar where
                    "the great spirit," "the personification of the idea of world
                    literature," "the most magnificent and most typical exemplification of 
                        German
                     culture" became alive, gave him a feeling of strength and confidence and made
                    him understand the meaning and the aim of all human existence, namely to expel disbelief and the
                    base and trivial things in life.
            Anybody interested in the intellectual history of America will benefit from this study of its
                    relation with another country from the beginning when the influence was one-sided to the present
                    century when "America begins to pay back her cultural debt which it contracted in Europe so
                    that it contributes to the present exchange of ideas as much as or more than it receives."
                    The 
                        German
                     publisher is to be congratulated on having printed this book by an American professor
                    and scholar on a subject which is significant in providing a basis for an understanding of the
                    relations between the two countries.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Horst Frenz
         
         
         
            
               The Social History of a War-Boom Community. By Robert J. Havighurst and H.
                    Gerthon Morgan. (
                        New York
                    : Longmans, Green and Company, 1951, pp. xix, 356. Index, maps, tables, illustrations,
                    appendices, and photographs. $4.00.)
            In this work Havighurst and Morgan present a unique study of the effect of a war industry boom on the
                    people and institutions of a midwestem community. The establishment of a ship building plant in
                    Seneca, a small 
                        Illinois
                     River town the population of which rose from 1,235 to 6,600 in approximately two years,
                    caused its citizens to face unfamiliar problems in relation to housing, schools, religion, race,
                    business, recreation, health, local government, and numerous other aspects of community life.
            Briefly stated the purposes of this work were to record a bit of significant American wartime life,
                    and to study a community in respect to the following: the adaptation of social institutions to rapid
                    change, the consonance of people to new conditions, and the influence of a crisis on the traditional
                    history of a community. Underlying the study were the hypotheses that the local community furnished
                    the nucleus for the non-material community expansion, that the government expanded the physical and
                    material services, and that there would be misunderstandings between the old and new elements of the
                    community. With these purposes and hypotheses in mind the work has been divided into four parts;
                    "The Setting," "The Adjustment of People," "The
                    Adjustment of Institutions," and "Perspectives."
            The source material and primary data were gathered by the authors through the help of several other
                    members of the staff of the University of 
                        Chicago
                    . Source materials were secured from the 
                        Chicago
                     Regional Office of the Federal Public Housing Authority; the Superintendent of Schools,
                    Seneca, 
                        Illinois
                    ; the 
                        Chicago
                     Regional Office of Community War Services; the 
                        Chicago
                     Bridge and Iron Company; and various agencies in the Seneca community. Primary data was
                    gathered on the spot by the various people contributing to the study.
            There are a few minor criticisms to be mentioned. The town of Seneca, 
                        Illinois
                    , has not been correctly located in respect to some of the surrounding towns. In one
                    instance a  passage left the reader confused concerning class
                    stratification in the community, as it presented an idea which seemed to conflict with the subject
                    as it had been previously discussed and explained. In several instances a lack of footnotes
                    concerning the information left the reader with the desire to investigate further. Often no
                    distinction is made between material gained from official records and that gained from "on
                    the spot" observation or interviews.
            In spite of the foregoing criticisms, this volume is a worthy contribution to the field of modern 
                        United States
                     social history. There have been but few such records of an objective, comprehensive
                    study of wartime midwestern community life. Main issues are discussed and their contributing factors
                    have been placed in their proper perspective. In many instances, not only has the pre-war background
                    of the issue been presented, but an evaluation or summary has also been included. In most cases, the
                    reader has the feeling that the treatment of the subject by the authors has been adequate for the
                    limits they established. Numerous diagrams give added emphasis and clarification to the subject
                    matter. Many tables have been used to condense the various statistics presented. The shaping of all
                    this material has resulted in an intensely interesting and very informative volume.
            This book should be of interest to many readers. For those in the Armed Services who never came in
                    contact with the civilian phases of the war effort, the work presents an authoritative account of
                    the part played by a small community in national defense. The permanent inhabitant of any
                    mid-western community that experienced a war-boom of its own will find this work a revealing
                    analysis of a situation which he witnessed and in which he might again participate. It will also be
                    a revelation to the person who was a temporary war worker in any number of war-boom towns. It will
                    give him an explanation for many of the unpleasant situations in which he found himself. In respect
                    to the general public and those not closely related to the immediate civilian problems of defense,
                    the book will present a fascinating and revealing account of a war-boom community, many of its
                    complex problems, and of the individuals who composed it.
            
                    Eastern 
                            Illinois
                         State College
                
            William D. Miner
         
         
         
            
               Abe 
                            Lincoln
                         at Loafer Station: A Novel Based on Hoosier Legends. By Anet Garrison. (
                        New York
                    : Exposition Press, 1951, pp. 216. $3.00.)
            Concerning her novel about her ancestors' relations with Abe 
                        Lincoln
                    , the author writes: "I haven't gone by dates or history
                    books—only what my ancestors have told me down through the years. Even if what my
                    ancestors have told me isn't true to history, I can't help it, and to me, I
                    would rather think that some of the history is wrong, than to think my ancestors were wrong. They
                    were there, and knew. And I don't care what the critics say. My ancestors were
                    right!"
            If Mrs. Garrison's ancestors were right, then Beveridge, Sandburg and other scholars are
                    wrong about a number of things and even 
                        Lincoln
                    's own recollections of his Indiana years are not to be trusted. To accept
                    the Garrison legend, we must not only create a new image of 
                        Lincoln
                    's backwoods haunts in 
                        Spencer
                     and 
                        Warrick
                     counties but we must also create a new image of the young 
                        Lincoln
                     himself. We must imagine him spending most of his idle hours not among people named
                    Grigsby, Gentry, Turnham, Crawford, and Pitcher in Gentryville and 
                        Rockport
                     but among people named Garrison, Hart, Weaver, Ingram, and Harper at Loafer Station,
                    identified as the present village of Tennyson, Indiana. What is more, we must picture him there
                    hanging out in a saloon, taking at least an occasional drink; we must disregard all other reports
                    that he was not fond of hunting and go along with him and Tommy Garrison on frequent hunting
                    expeditions; and perhaps most difficult of all, we must discard our previous concept of Tom 
                        Lincoln
                     as a teetotaler, and accept him in the company of Isaac Garrison "more than
                    half full" and on his way to visit a woman of ill-repute.
            But it would be unwise to quarrel with Mrs. Garrison's truculent preface. As she says, her
                    ancestors "were there, and knew." Whether their memories were more or less
                    accurate than the memories of Dennis Hanks, John Pitcher, Mrs. Josiah Crawford, and Abe 
                        Lincoln
                     himself is something that no critic can now determine.
            A much safer approach to this novel is to consider it as folklore, apart from the 
                        Lincoln
                     story; for, in that department, the author has indisputably made a contribution to
                    Hoosieriana. The best elements in her book are her recall of log-cabin life among the pioneers and
                    her recounting of the tall tales her  male characters told round
                    the bottles in the saloon at Loafer Station.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            William E. Wilson
         
         
            
               The Plank Road. By Anna E. Kelley. (
                        Greenfield
                    , Indiana: The Old Swimmin' Hole Press, 1951, pp. 141.)
            In The Plank Road, Mrs. Kelley relates the story of her ancestors. The first of
                    these to settle in Indiana was Virgil Soper who came to 
                        New Harmony
                     about 1830. Approximately three miles south of 
                        New Harmony
                     he erected a home which was on the east side of the Plank Road when the latter was
                    completed years later.
            The fall of 1833 proved eventful for Virgil Soper as he returned to East Cranby, 
                        Connecticut
                    , for his bride, Martha Deborah Thrall. Since she was a young woman of culture, the
                    adjustment to pioneer life was very difficult. As the years passed the family increased and it
                    seemed desirable to move to 
                        Mt. Vernon
                     to ensure better educational advantages for the children.
            Various events of family life are noted among which was the annual trip made by Soper during the
                    winter on the flat-boat to 
                        New Orleans
                     to market his produce. Here he was introduced to the slave market which made an
                    indelible impression on him.
            The Thrall lineage indicated ability to write verse and a number of pages are devoted to display
                    lines from their pens.
            Virgil and Martha Soper returned to live in 
                        New Harmony
                     and in December, 1859, died of pneumonia.
            The remaining chapters are devoted to the descendants of the Virgil Soper family. Mrs. Anna Elliott
                    Kelley was a granddaughter of Virgil and Martha Soper.
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Query 138
            Information is desired on Judge James O. Wattles, particularly for the years after 1830.
            Judge James O. Wattles, born about 1787 (probably in 
                        Connecticut
                    ). The first record of him is in Whitestown, 
                  Oneida
                            County, New York
               , where he
                    resided in 1810–1811. In the year 1815 or earlier he removed to Manlius Village, 
                        Onondaga County
                    , 
                        New York
                    . He was a lawyer and was appointed judge of the Court of Common Pleas in 1818.
            "Upon the change of Politics which put Mr. Clinton out of office, and some failures at the
                    same time by which Judge Wattle[s] lost considerable sums of money; the Judge determined to retire
                    into the Western States, and ultimately fixed his residence at Albion [
                        Edwards County
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    ]." "The Diaries of Donald Macdonald, 1824–1826,"
                    in the Indiana Historical Society Publications, XIV (1942), 261.
            Judge Wattles served as judge of the Fifth Judicial District of 
                        Illinois
                     from January 19, 1825, to January 12, 1827. About this time he became interested in
                    Robert Owen's experiment and removed to 
                        New Harmony
                    . The last record found of him is in the Census of 1830, where he appears still a
                    resident of 
                        New Harmony
                    .
            George Flower in the History of the English Settlement in 
                            Edwards County
                        , 
                            Illinois
                        
               , 159, speaks of him as "an albino, white hair and white skin, with
                    peculiar red eyes of that race, dreadfully near-sighted, had to turn the paper upside down, and put
                    it close to his spectacles, to enable him to read it."
            Willard C. Heiss 406 North Temple Avenue
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     1, Indiana
         
         
            Hill Men of Indiana
            Elliott Hill b. Green Co. Pa; d. Clark Co. Ind; had James Wylie & others.
            
               
                        Elwood
                     Hill of Henry Co. 6th Regt. Ind. Inf. Civil War 1861.
            Emmet Hill m. Lillian Whitehead 1904 
                        Bartholomew
                     Co.
            Enoch Hill Pvt. Co. C 51st Regt. Ind. Inf. from Filmore.
            Enoch P. Hill of 
                        Orange
                     Co. 24th Regt. Ind. Inf. 1861–1864.
            
            Ephraim Hill m. Miss Ray or Wray, had Wm. R. 1849.
            Ephraim A. Hill m. Harriet Orn 1861 Allen Co. Ind.
            Esquire Hill m. Eliza Bagly 1864 Johnson Co.
            Ezra C. Hill of 
                        Marion
                     Ind. Lt. Art 14th Batt. Ind. 1862–1865.
            Filey P. Hill of Jefferson Co. mustered in 1864.
            Fluoy Hill of 
                        Warsaw
                    , Ind. 74th & 22nd Ind. Inf. 1865.
            Fording or Fordus Hill m. Susannah Eddy, lived Milan 1847.
            Frank Hill m. Milly Thomas 1823 
                        Knox
                     Co.
            Francis M. Hill of Rush Co. Pvt. Co. F 16th Regt. Ind. Inf. 1861.
            Francis M. Hill of 
                        Hagerstown
                     Pvt. Co. B 5th Cav. Ind. 1862–1865.
            Francis M. Hill of Union Co. Pvt. Co. B 105th Inf. & Co. D 9th Cav. 1863–1865.
            Francis M. Hill m. Cornelia Smith 1882 at 
                        Bartholomew
                     Co.
            
               
                        Franklin
                     Hill m. Matilda Colton 1853 lived Grover, Ind. Records on above desired by
            Edwin P. Hill 5421 
                        Broadway
                    
               
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     20, Indiana
         
         
         
            Economic and Business History
            
                    Thomas P. Martin*
               
                
            A session on economic and business history was held on Friday evening, December 7, 1951, in
                    connection with the Indiana History Conference. Joseph Baerncopf of George S. Olive Company
                    presided. Doris Reed and Caroline Dunn gave accounts of certain manuscript collections relating to
                    Indiana economic and business history, and George M. Blackburn presented with comments a classified
                    list of writings on the subject for the period since 1900. The work of the Indiana War History
                    Commission on industrial history during World War II was ably and suggestively reviewed by Lynn W.
                    Turner. Bernard F. Trimpe of the University of 
                        Tennessee
                     contributed through the courtesy of L. L. Waters a well-documented account of the
                    continuity of the Stokely family management and growth of the food canning company now known as
                    Stokely-VanCamp. An unknown phase of the history of the "Monon" or
                            
                  Chicago, Indianapolis
               , and 
                        Louisville
                     Railroad—an effort to extend the line through 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     to a seaport—was interestingly revealed in detail by Leland S. Van Scoyoc of 
                        Bowling Green
                     State University in 
                        Ohio
                    . These papers and lists of manuscript collections and writings, with some additions to
                    the lists, are soon to be published in book form. Another program is being planned for May by the
                    Business History Society. Communications should be addressed to Joseph A. Batchelor, B and E 340,
                    Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            
               
                  * Thomas P. Martin is secretary of the 
                            Bloomington
                         Committee on Economic and Business History.
            
         
         
         
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    January 23, 1952
                                
                        Mr. John D. Barnhart, Editor, The Indiana Magazine of History, 
                                        Bloomington
                                    , Indiana
                        Dear Mr. Barnhart,
                        May I ask you for the privilege of making a brief rejoinder to a book review which
                                    appeared in a recent issue of the Indiana Magazine of History? I
                                    refer to William Hugh Jansen's appraisal of Bertha K.
                                    Ehrmann's Max Ehrmann: A Poet's Life.
                        I note that Jansen begins his review with a "guess" instead of the
                                    knowledge which alone should qualify a reviewer. Even if Jansen's
                                    "guess"—a tentative opinion, a supposition, a surmise,
                                    a conjecture—were correct, his acknowledgement that Max
                                    Ehrmann's work had "made a deep impression on some very
                                    respectable critics" should have made him reflect that many artists,
                                    especially musicians, came to command of wide appreciation years after their deaths.
                                    Jansen's attempt at "orienting the reader" is an
                                    awkward performance. Apologizing in advance, he makes an odious comparison, then
                                    thinks of another "perhaps better" and writes it and leaves the
                                    first standing to waste valuable space on the printed page.
                        Moreover, Jansen seems not to keep in mind the normal course of a man's
                                    life, how Max Ehrmann like other men born in 1872 was twenty-eight in 1900,
                                    fifty-six by 1928, sixty-five by 1937, and seventy-three in 1945, the year of his
                                    death. What can be wrong about a Middle West poet's "life-long
                                    allegiance" to the country and the people of his birth and his home that is
                                    not wrong about a New Englander poet's "life-long
                                    allegiance" to New 
                                        England
                                    —Robert Frost's, for example? Max
                                    Ehrmann's mind ranged far and wide; and appreciation came to him from
                                    "very respectable critics" as far away as 
                                        London
                                    , 
                                        England
                                    , and from " 
                                        Maine
                                     to 
                                        California
                                    ." Yet Jansen would brand him "local sage!"
                                    There is obvious contradiction in the use of the epithet and the later qualification
                                    "of great national import."
                        One senses amused condescension in Jansen's reference to Max Ehrmann as a
                                    "character," a "type" worthy of study as such.
                                    But one can hardly dismiss in such cavalier fashion a man whose "A
                                    Prayer," translated into many languages, has served to restore faltering
                                    courage in the most remote parts of the earth.
                        It is to be regretted that Bertha K. Ehrmann's book could not have been
                                    reviewed by an older man, one old enough to have known Max Ehrmann and his writings
                                    through the years.
                        
                                    Harry V. Wann, Head Department of Foreign Languages Indiana
                                        State Teachers College 
                                            Terre Haute
                                        , Indiana
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
