
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 32, Issue 1, pages 1-90. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:32+issue:1+year:1936&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Growing Concept of Social Responsibility Illustrated by a Study of the State's Care
                    of the Insane in Indiana
            EVELYN C. ADAMS
            
            The placing of responsibility for the care of the insane has presented many difficulties to the State
                    of Indiana. Successful placement of responsibilities is one of the major problems of statecraft,
                    and, although not a new question, the structural relationship of philanthropic and political
                    institutions is a matter of current interest.
            This study which is primarily concerned with the development of state care of the insane in Indiana,
                    will attempt to trace the present state service through legal and administrative procedures
                    available in record form. Laws enacted by the General Assembly will be regarded as an index of
                    public opinion as well as an indication of the degree of political advancement which the state has
                    reached.
            The care of the insane has been chosen as the problem because of the explicitness of laws relating to
                    it and the existence of records in available form. The State of Indiana has been chosen as the
                    political area, because of its location near the center of population of the 
                        United States
                    , and because of its favorable status in wealth and industrial progress.1
            
            
               
                        
                     1
                            The World Almanac. 1935, 643. Indiana ranks as the thirty-seventh state in
                            area, and for six decades the center of population of the 
                                United States
                             has been within its boundaries. The state was eleventh in population in 1930,
                            and in 1929, its wealth averaged $3000.00 per capita. Its agriculture and
                            industry are well-developed. Only one and seven-tenths per cent, of the population was
                            illiterate by the census of 1930.
                        Source material for this study has been obtained by personal visits to, or correspondence
                            with (1) members of the erstwhile Board of State Charities, (2) the state hospitals for the
                            insane, and (3) the present Board of Public Welfare. Documentary information has been found
                            in statutes, annual reports, bulletins of voluntary and semiofficial organizations, and in
                            the Indiana Senate, House and Documentary Journals. Secondary sources of Information
                            consisted of studies in related fields, articles in scientific journals and professional
                            literature.
                        This study was begun at the University of 
                                Chicago
                            , where its progress was limited to the compilation of Indiana Statutes
                            concerning the insane. In the summer of 1933, Dr. Henry N. Sherwood, then of the University
                            of 
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , read a skeleton draft of the material under
                            consideration and referred it to Prof. William O. Lynch, editor of the Indiana Magazine of
                            History, who encouraged its completion.
                    
            
            
            Indiana, located as it is near the center of population of the 
                        United States
                    , is not only one of the most progressive states in the Union, but it is also one of the
                    oldest. In its unusual course of political development it has been governed by 
                  France, England
                and the 
                        United States
                     and by the State of 
                        Virginia
                    . Its recorded history dates from 1682, when La Salle explored the 
                        Mississippi
                     River. Statehood was conferred in 1816.
            The development of the state care of the insane in Indiana illustrates the growing social
                    responsibility of a state in which the change is brought about through social legislation in popular
                    assemblage. The explicitness of Indiana laws and their availability in record form aid materially in
                    following the gradual growth in this particular modification of state service from the Statutes of
                    the Northwest Territory in 1792 to the Reorganization Act of 1933.
            Briefly the state care of the insane in Indiana at the present time is provided for by seven
                    institutions over which the state exercises supervision.2 The seven institutions
                    are maintained by funds appropriated by the General Assembly at each biennial session. There are two
                    minor exceptions to full state maintenance of the hospitals for the insane. Patients, who have
                    adequate income are required to pay a weekly fee of five dollars for treatment and maintenance3 while clothing and transportation are provided by the county of the
                    patient's residence or by township trustees.4
            
            Private institutions for the insane are not supervised by the state but are controlled by certain
                    legal restrictions. The 
                        Marion
                     County Asylum for the Incurable Insane, located at Julietta, near 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is an anomaly regulated by laws pertaining to county poor asylums.
            There is no discrimination with reference to age, color, or sex in the admission of patients to state
                    hospitals for the insane in Indiana. Legal residence may not be required as a qualification of
                    admission to state institutions for the insane, provided the approval of the Department of Public
                    Welfare is submitted, based upon a satisfactory investigation.
            Prior to 1846, the insane in Indiana were cared for by 
                  
                     2 State hospitals for the insane are located in 
                        Indianapolis, Logansport, Evansville, Richmond
                      and 
                                Madison
                            . The Village for Epileptics is located in 
                                Newcastle
                             and the Indiana Hospital for Insane Criminals, in 
                                Michigan
                             City.
                  
                     3 Burns' Annotated Indiana Statutes,
                            1933–1935, chap, 22, Sec. 401.
                  
                     4
                            Indiana, Bulletin of Charities and Corrections, Dec. 1934, 278.
               
                     legal guardianship, individual supervision, or custodial care in
                    a county poor asylum, with the type of care depending upon the patient's economic status.
                    Legal guardianship provided protection for the person and property of the insane and for the persons
                    and properties exposed to the insane person's destructive tendencies. There was a
                    difference between the care extended to the insane property-owner and the insane pauper.
            The 
                        Marion
                     County Asylum for Incurable Insane, at Julietta near 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is not under state supervision, but is controlled by laws relating to the management
                    of county poor asylums and the care of their inmates. Nor do private institutions for the insane
                    come under state supervision. Nevertheless, they have certain legal restrictions. The foregoing
                    brief review of the present status of the care of the insane in Indiana indicates the results of a
                    somewhat steady growth in the field of philanthropy, under state supervision.
            The earliest provisions for the insane in Indiana were solely of a legal character. These provisions
                    were of a strategic nature and came out of the necessity of protecting both the person and property
                    of the insane person himself and persons and property within the radius of his destructive
                    tendencies. There was, as stated above, a difference between the care extended to the insane person
                    with property and the insane pauper. The former was placed in charge of a suitable person appointed
                    as his guardian, while the latter was placed in a county asylum or farmed out. A statutory provision
                    in the Northwest Territory in 1792 empowered the judge of the probate court to assign some suitable
                    person as guardian to take care of the insane person and estate, both real and personal, and to make
                    perfect inventory of the said estate to be filed in the probate office.5
            
            Indiana was not unlike other pioneer sections in classifying insane paupers with other paupers. It
                    was customary to farm out both classes to the lowest bidder. A notation is made in the record from
                    the Orphans Court of St. Clair in March, 1808, that "the insane boy Lemay was cried down to
                    Francois Turcotte, for sixty-nine dollars for one year from that date."6
            
            The same distinction in care between the insane property 
                  
                     5 Salmon P. Chase, The Statutes of 
                                    Ohio
                                 and of the Northwestern Territory, I, 127.
                  
                     6 Francis L. Philbrick, Laws of Indiana Territory,
                                1801–1809, cxxx.
                  
               
                     owner and the insane pauper was clearly defined in the last year
                    of the territory's existence, when the General Assembly enacted a law by which
                    "twelve men should inspect the insane," call for testimony and appoint three
                    persons as guardians to care for the person and property of the insane, and that other persons
                    insane "who have not property for their support shall be entitled to benefits for the
                    relief of paupers."7 Similar provisions were incorporated into laws
                    when Indiana became a state.8 Although county poor asylums, which were
                    established in 1821, were open to the insane also, the policy of farming-out did not cease, but
                    alternated with custodial care made available in the county institutions.9
            
            The only provision of a medical nature appearing in the laws during this period, recommended in 1815,
                    that a physician be included among the twelve men chosen by the sheriff "to inspect the
                    insane." The medical service was limited to testimony and did not apply to professional
                    service in the way of treatment. Simplicity of pioneer life, neighborly interest and closely knit
                    communities with a common concern for the sick were the only guarantees against neglect of the
                    mentally disturbed.
            The first act toward planning for the state care of the insane was in 1825, when 
                        Indianapolis
                    , superseding Corydon as the state capital, was founded in the wilderness on land
                    granted by Congress, and square No. 22 was set aside in the city-to-be as the site of a state
                    hospital for the insane. A log cabin constructed on the square, accommodated inmates until the first
                    buildings of what is now the Central State Hospital for the Insane were ready for occupancy.10 Funds for a building were provided when the General Assembly of 1831 made
                    legal provision for the use of one section of government land, or from the proceeds of that sale, in
                    the erection of an asylum for the care of the insane from the whole state.11
            
            Despite the fact that legislative measures had been adopted to provide both a site and adequate funds
                    for a building to be used as a hospital for the insane, there was inordinate delay in carrying out
                    the program. In the meantime the 
                  
                     7
                            Acts of Indiana Territory, 1815, 66–68.
                  
                     8
                            Laws of Indiana, 1818, 331–332.
                  
                     9 William A. Rawles, Centralizing Tendencies in the
                                Administration of Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1908), 145.
                  
                     10 Alexander Johnson, "A State Aged One Hundred
                            Years," in Survey (April 29, 1916), XXXVI, 117.
                  
                     11 Rawles, op. cit., 148. Refers to Special Laws, 1830–1831, 188–189.
               
                     little cabin on square No. 22 no longer served adequately.
                    Inertia produced reactionary legislation in a protective measure approved February 12, 1840,12 making it "the duty of the justice of the peace, after a hearing
                    before the jury, to appoint a suitable person to take charge of any dangerously insane
                    person" for which service he was to be compensated from the county funds. The reversion to
                    the use of county funds was an emergency measure passed to meet the exigency of the situation.
            An active campaign to hasten the construction of the hospital was carried on by Governor Samuel
                    Bigger, who, in his message in 1841, declared that "in all the legislation respecting the
                    insane, they had only been regarded as incapable of self-government," 13 at the following session of the Legislature, governor Bigger announced that he had complied
                    with the request of the previous session in collecting information and in obtaining plans and
                    specifications for the proposed structure.14
            
            The work of Dorothea L. Dix., social reformer of international recognition, who addressed the General
                    Assembly in 1844, was influential in moulding public opinion and hastening favorable legislation in
                    Indiana as well as in many other states.15
            
            A stirring appeal was made by Governor James Whit-comb in 1844.16 It met with
                    favorable legislative action that produced $12,000 for a hospital building. An Act in
                    1845 provided for a hospital site. Square No. 22 had become not only inadequate in size, but the
                    location was now unsuitable. Consequently, authorization was given for the sale of the
                    "Hospital Block," as it was called, and the proceeds were to be applied toward the
                    new building.17 On August 28, 1845, the farm of N. Bolton, consisting of one
                    hundred and sixty acres, and situated two miles from 
                        Indianapolis
                     on the macadamized National Road, was bought at $53.121/2 per 
                  
                     12
                            Laws of Indiana, 1839, 72.
                  
                     13
                            Documentary Journal (Indiana), 1841–1842, 85.
                            Governor's message.
                  
                     14
                            House Journal (Indiana), 1843–1844, 18.
                  
                     15 James V. May, Mental Diseases, 47. Dr. May is of
                            the opinion that more than any other one person, Miss Dorothea L. Dix, was undoubtedly
                            directly responsible for the inauguration of the state care of mental diseases in this
                            country. She is credited with having memorialized twenty-two different state legislatures on
                            this subject. See also Alexander Johnson, "A State Aged One Hundred
                            Years," op. cit., 117.
                  
                     16
                            Senate Journal (Indiana), 1844, 24.
                  
                     17
                            Laws of Indiana, 1846, 220–222.
               
                     acre, and the property passed to the state of Indiana the
                    following day.18
            
            Previously, the problem of caring for the insane had been solved by legal guardianship, alone, or by
                    individual supervision of insane persons and custodial care in county poor asylums, depending upon
                    the economic status of the insane person. Curability of the insane with timely care and treatment
                    had been the theme of the campaign which, resulted in 1846 in providing a suitable site and building
                    for a state hospital. This achievement marked the beginning of state responsibility which made
                    possible medical care for the insane.
            STATE RESPONSIBILITY
                    FOR
                    THE INSANE
            
            The completion of the first state hospital in 1846 inaugurated formal state responsibility and
                    medical care for the insane. Patients were to be admitted under the supervision of a well educated
                    physician. First preference was given to acute cases; second preference, to chronic cases with
                    symptoms favorable to recovery, while discrimination was shown against the long standing chronic
                        group.19 The new Constitution of Indiana, which was adopted in 1851,
                    specifies that "it shall be the duty of the General Assembly to provide by law …
                    for the treatment of the insane."
            The substitution of treatment and attempted cure of patients for custodial care without treatment,
                    continued until 1865, when the state recognized the need of assuming responsibility for both curable
                    and incurable insane. The large number of hopelessly incurable cases, added to the knowledge that
                    these wards could be cared for more economically and more satisfactorily in state institutions than
                    elsewhere, were major influences in bringing about the change in policy, which did not take place
                    until 1875 when the hospital's physical capacity was doubled.20
            
            The difficulties confronting the hospital in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the only hospital of its kind in the state from 1848 to 1888, serve as an index to the
                    indifference as well as to the active opposition shown toward state care of the insane during that
                    period. The legislature of 1857 failed to provide means for 
                  
                     18 Henry Mills Hurd, The Institutional Care of the Insane
                                in the 
                                    United States
                                 and 
                                    Canada
                                
                      (
                                Dayton
                            , 1922), II, 822.
                  
                     19
                            Laws of Indiana, 1847–1848, 83–86.
                  
                     20 Rawles, op. cit., 155–166.
               
                     the maintenance of the patients in the hospital, and they were
                    sent back to their respective counties, where they were lodged in poor-houses, jails and isolated
                    cabins erected for the purpose. Some of the patients were in such an acute condition that they were
                    returned to the hospital to be maintained at the expense of their counties. It should be noted that
                    the closing of the hospital was not due to the poverty of the state, since "Indiana
                    prospered between 1850 and 1860. Over three million acres of land were cleared and planted while
                    farms more than doubled in value."21
            
            Adequate financial provision was made to re-open the hospital in October, six months after its
                    closing. The difficulties arising from the return of patients to their respective counties became
                    eventually a constructive experience, with such good effect that when no appropriation was made for
                    the hospital during the Civil War, not one patient was sent back to his county. The hospital was
                    maintained by a general fund until adequate provision could be made by the General Assembly.22
            
            Partisan politics, in aggravated form, with the spoils system of office-holding, tended to nullify
                    the humanitarian aspects underlying the policy of state care for a helpless group. This problem was
                    most clearly accentuated during the seventies and eighties. The official records from 1870 to 1879,
                    of the state hospital are not even in existence. At the legislative session of 1887, the Civil
                    Service Reform Association uncovered graft, cruelty and abuses. The local political campaign of that
                    year stressed administrative reform, which meant that both political parties Were aware of the need
                    for a constructive shift in the government. Open discussion and clarification of the issues resulted
                    in the beginning of a new era in the care of the insane in 1887.23
            
            Social legislation dating from 188324 shows a tendency toward a degree of
                    permanence in state philanthropy, which must be attributed, in some measure, to the economic
                    development of the state. The financial phase of the problem was becoming less difficult. Political
                    maneuvering, in connection with the construction of three additional state hospitals for 
                  
                     21 Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1919), II, 585.
                  
                     22 Hurd, op. cit., 824.
                  
                     23 Johnson, "A State Aged One Hundred Years," op. cit., 119.
                  
                     24
                            Laws of Indiana. 1883, 164–168.
               
                     the insane was prompted partly by regional interests within the
                    state. When funds for a second state hospital for the insane, were blocked in 1883, a third hospital
                    was proposed as a solution of the blocking. With the continuance of the deadlock, a fourth hospital
                    received approval. Thus, three new hospitals emerged to relieve the hospital in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which had been the sole accommodation for the insane in the state for forty years. The
                    fifth state hospital for the insane which is located near 
                        Madison
                     was authorized in 1905,25 and opened in 1910.26
            
            Permanence of state responsibility in the field of philanthropy now seemed assured. During the next
                    two decades, inadequate facilities were the most obvious problem. As a result of overcrowding in the
                    state hospitals, three institutions, differentiated in type, were established, as follows:
            
               The 
                            Marion
                         County Asylum for the Incompetent In-same was opened at Julietta in June, 1910.
               The Village for Epileptics was opened at 
                            Newcastle
                        , in September, 1907.
               The Indiana Hospital for Insane Criminals was opened at 
                            Michigan
                         City, in October, 1912.
            
            The 
                        Marion
                     County asylum for the Incompetent Insane was established in 190127
                    to relieve the overcrowded condition of the 
                        Marion
                     County Poor Asylum. Incurably insane paupers and incurably insane wards are admitted
                    "upon such compensation as may be agreed upon" with their guardians. The
                    institution is controlled by the board of county commissioners and maintained by county
                    appropriations in the same manner as other county institutions. This deviation is a throw-back to
                    county responsibility and the acceptance of custodial care in lieu of medical care, but it is the
                    only instance of its kind in the state.
            An Act providing for the Indiana Village for Epileptics, was passed March 6, 1905.28 A site containing 1,245 acres was purchased near 
                        Newcastle
                     and the institution was opened 
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., 1906, 26.
                  
                     26 The annual reports of the several state hospitals for the insane
                            furnish the following data: 
                        
                           
                           Authorized
                           Opened
                        
                        
                           Central State Hospital (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        )
                           1844
                           Nov. 21, 1848
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                            Logansport
                                         State Hospital
                           1883
                           July 1, 1888
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                            Richmond
                                         State Hospital
                           1883
                           Aug. 4, 1809
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                            Evansville
                                         State Hospital
                           1883
                           Oct. 30, 1890
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                            Madison
                                         State Hospital
                           1906
                           July 23, 1910
                        
                     
                        
                  
                     27
                            Laws of Indiana, 1901, 430–433.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., 1906, 483–489.
               
                     with two small cottages on September 16, 1907. No incurable or
                    violent insane patient may be admitted to this institution.
            An appropriation for $65,000.00 was made in 1909,29 for the Indiana
                    Hospital for Insane Criminals, as a part of the Indiana State Prison at 
                        Michigan
                     City, under the management of the trustees and warden. The building was constructed
                    almost entirely by prison labor and was opened to receive patients October 12, 1912.
            Indiana's records show that the first criminal was imprisoned in 
                        Jeffersonville
                     in 1822; the first insane patient was admitted to a state hospital in 1848, and the
                    first criminal-insane patient was segregated for treatment in 1912, a period ten years short of a
                    century after the first commitment of a criminal to the prison at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    .30
            
            The achievements of this period may be measured by permanence in state responsibility expressed in a
                    centralized program of medical care for the insane and the provision of specialized institutions for
                    particular groups of mental cases in need of special kinds of care and treatment. The provision for
                    adequate institutional care of the insane by the state made the poor asylums less a general dumping
                    ground for helpless inmates, and at the same time provided more suitable care for them. Partisan
                    political strategy and gross neglect of the insane had to be counter-acted before the centralized
                    service for the care of the insane could be permanently established.
            ADMINISTRATION
                    OF STATE HOSPITALS
                    FOR
                    THE INSANE
            
            The state hospital presented a twofold problem; namely, the efficient administration of funds
                    appropriated for its maintenance and the need of unremitting interest in the humanitarian goal which
                    had prompted its creation. Benevolent institutions in Indiana have always been controlled by boards.
                    This policy dates from the era of local responsibility when supervision and reports were adopted as
                    measures to prevent careless treatment of public wards. In 1799, overseers of the poor were required
                    to see that paupers, bound out to service, were properly cared for and they reported the results of
                    their visits to the boards transacting the county business. Directors of poor asylums and private
                    contractors for indigent individuals were required to report to the county 
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 1909, 202–208.
                  
                     30 Hurd, op. cit., 379.
               
                     board.31 In 1843, county commissioners were
                    required to visit the county asylums "to inspect them with regard to their fitness, in all
                    respects, for the objects of their establishment."32
            
            At the present time, the policy of legal checks expressed in the control of boards is somewhat more
                    intricate. Each hospital for the insane is supervised individually by its own Board of Trustees and
                    its Superintendent. The supervision of fiscal affairs, large in volume and a fertile source of
                    problems, is now vested jointly in the State Board of Accounts, established in 1909, and the State
                    Budget Committee, established in 1925. The Governor was authorized by an Act in 1833, to appoint a
                    State Purchasing Agent, with part of the duties of the office designated as securing bids and making
                    advantageous purchases of supplies, materials and equipment for state benevolent institutions.
                    General supervision over all state institutions is vested in the Department of Public Welfare, which
                    superseded the Board of State Charities in 1933. Briefly, there is individual supervision plus
                    specialized supervision of fiscal affairs and the purchasing of supplies, and, finally, there is
                    centralized general supervision of state benevolent institutions.
            The Village for Epileptics and the five state hospitals for the insane are under homogeneous
                    supervision. The Indiana Hospital for Insane Criminals comes under the management of the state
                    prison, which does not emphasize medical treatment, while the 
                        Marion
                     County Asylum for Incompetent Insane is controlled by the board of county
                    commissioners.
            When the Indiana Hospital for the Insane was opened in 1848, it was placed under the management of a
                    "board of six commissioners, created by law. A staggered service period was adopted to
                    preserve continuity in administration. The term of office of one commissioner was to expire
                    annually. The board had power to appoint the superintendent and major officials, to prescribe their
                    duties, tenure of office and salaries and to remove them from office. Visits of inspection were made
                    at specified intervals, reports were exacted of officers of the Hospital and, in turn, the board of
                    commissioners submitted a full annual report to the General Assembly.
            The superintendent was to be "a person of knowledge, 
                  
                     31 Rawles, op. cit., 176.
                  
                     32
                            Indiana Revised Statutes, 1843, 361.
               
                     skill and ability" in the medical profession. His
                    duties consisted in the employment of attendants and servants, the admission of patients and their
                    discharge, when cured, but, in all instances, he was subject to the control of the commissioners.33 The treasurer of the state served as the treasurer of the hospital and
                    collected its debts.34
            
            The tendency toward centralization was shown in the creation of the first board of trustees, by an
                    act of legislature March 5,1859.35 The Board of Trustees consisted of two
                    representatives for each of the three benevolent institutions maintained by the state, namely, the
                    schools for the deaf and blind and the state hospital for the insane. One added trustee as a common
                    member served as the president. This greatly desired appointment was always given to a faithful
                    party henchman who was obliged to discharge his political obligations in the selection of officials.
                    The superintendent was now deprived of the appointive power which heretofore had been allotted to
                    him, and the Board of Trustees in his stead exercised full authority in filling all vacancies. The
                    Board of Trustees also directed and controlled all expenditures of the hospital and the state had no
                    other medium of obtaining information with reference to the financial condition of the public
                    usefulness of the hospital. Despite the fact that the board enjoyed enlarged power, no particular
                    qualifications were required of its members.36
            
            A definite change did not come until 1879, although there had been-criticism against the high-handed
                    policy of the Board for a number of years. Governor Thomas A. Hendricks, Democrat, expressed the
                    following criticism in his biennial message in 1876: 
                        The boards of trustees in charge of the benevolent institutions do not give that protection
                            to the State which was intended. They make stated visits, hastily examine the vouchers and
                            accounts, and look through the wards and rooms, but generally receive their views and
                            opinions from the superintendents. There is not that thorough investigation and rigid
                            control which should prevail.37
                  
                    
            
            Later during his administration, the Governor was empowered 
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 1862, 822–331.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., 328.
                  
                     35
                            Laws of Indiana, 1859, 41–42.
                  
                            36
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     37
                            Documentary Journal, 1876–1877, 12. Message of the
                        Governor.
               
                     to reorganize the Board. A salary of $900.00 per year
                    was allowed the chairman, and $600.00 per year was allowed the other members. The duties
                    remained unchanged, but the Governor had authority to dismiss members who failed to assume their
                    responsibilities properly. Itemized bills were required before any moneys should be paid out. The
                    reports were to be made to the Governor, who submitted them to the General Assembly. Pecuniary
                    interest in any contract on the part of any member of the Board of Trustees was made punishable by
                    imprisonment or fine or both.38
            
            The reform lasted until 1883, when the General Assembly resumed the power to appoint the members of
                    the board.39 It was during this period that sectional strife brought about the
                    construction of three additional hospitals for the insane instead of one. The act providing for the
                    location and construction of the three hospitals "went into force March 7, 1883, by lapse
                    of time without the governor's approval."40 Governor Albert G.
                    Porter, elected by the Republican party, held office from 1881 to 1885.
            General Benjamin Harrison, in 1887, declared that state institutions were "managed as houses
                    of patronage."41 Investigation followed accusation. The charges that
                    the board had appointed unqualified officials, and that the inmates of the institutions had not been
                    given adequate food and had not been treated well were answered satisfactorily and it was recorded
                    that the chairman of the Board of Trustees, who had been made the victim of the "most
                    infamous outrages ever perpetrated upon a public official," was exonerated.42
            
            Interest was now centered in the reorganization of the administrative machinery, and particular
                    attention was directed to the elimination of partisan control. In 1893 the Governor, instead of the
                    General Assembly, was empowered to appoint the members of the Board.43 Two years
                    later, legislation was passed requiring that not more than nine of the eighteen trustees (three
                    trustees for each of the six state institutions) should be from the same political party, and for
                    the first time, they were "to be of known fitness, probity and 
                  
                     38
                            Laws of Indiana, 1879, 5–11.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., 1883, 15–16.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., 1883, 164–168.
                  
                     41 Rawles, op. cit., 180.
                  
                     42
                            Senate Journal, 1887, 946–947.
                  
                     43
                            Laws of Indiana, 1893, 137.
               
                     high character."44 At the next
                    session of the Legislature, a law was passed providing that twelve of the eighteen trustees might
                    belong to the same political party,45 and a protective balance against partisan
                    political control was effected in 1907, when the individual boards of trustees were increased from
                    three to four members, with the requirement that two be chosen from each political party.46
            
            Each state benevolent institution, at present, is managed by a board of four trustees, chosen
                    "for fitness and probity," who serve a term of four years, and not more than two
                    of whom shall be affiliated with the same political party. Each trustee shall give bond with surety
                    for $10,000, and the treasurer shall give bond for $25,000. Three hundred
                    dollars yearly plus reasonable expenses, not to exceed $125.00 per year is the annual
                    compensation for each member of a board. Each board has power to appoint the superintendent, fix his
                    salary and determine the number of officials and employees, with their duties and compensation. No
                    person may be appointed superintendent of a hospital for the insane who has not had previous
                    professional experience in such an institution. The superintendent appoints all other employees in
                    the hospital. Any person who is a contractor with the institution, or who is interested in any
                    contract or in furnishing any of the supplies for such an institution is ineligible for appointment
                    as a trustee.47
            
            Governor Paul V. McNutt urged in 1935, that the local boards of state institutions be continued and
                    that their appointment be made by the State Board of Public Welfare with the approval of the
                        Governor.48 The boards of trustees have changed in form and functions many
                    times in becoming more efficient units in administrative machinery.
            The Board of State Charities was established by law in 1889,49 and its duties
                    were taken over by the State Department of Public Welfare in 1933. In 1889, there was dire need for
                    general non-partisan supervision of state benevolent institutions and the Board of State Charities
                    was successful in meeting 
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., 1895, 300–301.
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., 1897, 157.
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., 1907, 138–143. The individual institutions of the state
                            at the present time are under the supervision of boards of trustees governed by the law of
                            1907 as amended in 1913, 1929, and 1933.
                  
                     47 Burns' Annotated Statutes of Indiana,
                            1933, chap. 22, sections 101–104.
                  
                     48
                            Indiana Bulletin of Charities and Corrections, March, 1935, 403.
                  
                     49
                            Laws of Indiana, 1889, 51–52.
               
                     the situation. The six members of the Board appointed by the
                    Governor, served without salary but were allowed traveling expenses. The Governor was ex-officio member and president of the Board and the person appointed as secretary
                    received a salary and clerical assistance with offices in the capitol building. The duties were of a
                    supervisory nature rather than administrative or controlling in the immediate sense, although
                    certain duties took on an administrative character.50
            
            In answer to the criticism that the Board would be ineffectual because it had no executive power, the
                    annual report of 1891 explained that its duties were new to the state, were little understood, that
                    there were no precedents for guidance, and that its usefulness must be effected by methods of
                    convincing and conciliating and not of commanding.51
            
            The measure of the Board's achievement was set forth in 1904 in two contrasted sets of
                        conditions.52 Later on separate boards, with full administrative authority,
                    took over some of the functions of the Board of State Charities. It might be said that this Board
                    was a citizens' committee with emphasis on general supervision of state benevolent
                    institutions and that it was established before the existence of professional training in public
                    welfare. It can also be said that the work of the Board contributed richly to the movement which
                    created professional training in social service and public welfare. During its existence of nearly a
                    half century the Board of State Charities was a major factor in moulding public opinion and in
                    developing constructive measures adopted by the state in its welfare program.
            
               
                  50
                        The Annual Report of the Board of State Charities, 1931, 255–261,
                        presents a list of duties prescribed by law, among which the following involve the care of the
                        insane: 
                     To investigate the whole system of public charities and correctional institutions of
                                the state.
                     To examine into the condition and management of prisons, jails, infirmaries, public
                                hospitals and asylums.
                     To report Its findings to the Governor and to print an annual report, for the use of
                                the legislature, with such suggestions as it deems necessary and pertinent.
                     To secure accurate, uniform and complete statistics.
                     To receive reports of the transfers to the Indiana Hospital for Insane Criminals.
                     To certify to the Auditor of State the average daily population of certain state
                                institutions.
                     To approve plans for out-patient clinics maintained by state hospitals for the insane.
                     To administer the law providing for the deportation of … epileptic, insane
                                and pauper non-residents.
                  
                    
               
                  51
                        Ibid., 1891, 14.
               
                  52 Board of State Charities, Development of Public Charities
                            and Corrections in the State of Indiana, 1892–1910 (prepared for the 
                            Louisiana
                         Purchase Exposition, 
                            St. Louis
                        , 1904), 5. In this report the greatly improved conditions were set over against the
                        bad conditions which had earlier prevailed.
            
            
            The administration of fiscal affairs presented a complex problem to the state. A non-partisan
                    Legislative Committee, which existed from 189753 to 1921, whose duty it was to
                    ascertain the needs of state institutions, was made up of three members-elect of the Legislature who
                    were to be "of known probity and business ability." Their services were not to
                    exceed thirty days in the aggregate of the forty-five days preceding the convening of the
                    Legislature. Their compensation was three dollars per day and traveling expenses.
            Prior to 1897, the Legislature had attempted to ascertain the needs of state institutions by means of
                    "junketing" committees, which necessitated the absence of members from sessions,
                    interfered with legislative business and furnished little reliable information. Such inadequate
                    service is presumed to have ended with the successful functioning of the Legislative Committee.54
            
            The Legislative Committee was modified and superseded by the conjoint functioning of the State Board
                    of Accounts and the State Budget Committee. The State Board of Accounts was created by legislation
                    in 1909, for the purpose of carrying on centralized inspection and supervision of the sources of
                    income and total expenditure of benevolent institutions.55 The State Budget
                    Committee is composed of the State Examiner of the State Board of Accounts, ex-officio, and four members of the General Assembly, appointed by the Governor, only two of
                    whom may be from one political party, and whose duty it is to make a budget for all departments and
                        institutions.56
            
            An Act of 1933,57 directed the Governor to appoint a State Purchasing Agent with
                    such assistants as may be necessary in the purchase of supplies, equipment and material for state
                    benevolent institutions and other specified organizations as well as exceptions. The duties are such
                    as are authorized by the law governing boards of trustees of institutions concerning the purchasing
                    of supplies and include the securing of advantageous bids. Thus fiscal affairs are centralized and
                        
                  
                     53
                            Laws of Indiana., 1897, 16.
                  
                     54 Rawles, op. cit., 199–200.
                  
                     55
                            Laws of Indiana, 1909, 136–187.
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., 1925, 71.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., 1933, 728.
               
                     placed in the hands of persons with business qualifications, who
                    are held strictly responsible to the state.
            The State Executive-Administrative Act passed in 193358 gave to the Governor
                    authority to reorganize the former Board of State Charities, which is now the Department of Public
                    Welfare. The Department is assigned to the executive division which is composed of the Governor
                    alone, and it takes over the duties assigned by law to the former Board of State Charities.59 The State Board of Public Welfare is a non-partisan board of citizens who are
                    appointed by the Governor and who serve without compensation. The Director of Public Welfare is
                    appointed by the Governor and is selected because of experience in welfare administration. His
                    tenure of office continues "during good behavior and faithful performance of
                    duties." The Director is the only salaried member of the Board.
            The Indiana Society for Mental Hygiene which was organized in 1917 during the World War "to
                    work for the conservation of mental health" is a voluntary organization with membership
                    conferred upon the payment of stipulated dues. There are annual meetings for which well-known
                    speakers are engaged. Records of discussions are kept and distribution of information is a part of
                    the Society's educational program.60
            
            Four factors are noted in the foregoing account of the administration of state institutions for the
                    insane. The gradual change in form and function of the boards, which are the mediating agencies
                    between the institutions and the state, resulted in: (1) a more satisfactory form of legal checks in
                    inspection and reports; (2) more desirable qualifications both of board members and of professional
                    personnel; (3) a more efficient service in the introduction of scientific business methods; and (4)
                    a more effective degree of centralization in state service for the care of the insane.
            ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES WITHIN
                        STATE HOSPITALS
                    FOR
                    THE INSANE
            
            Legal regulations and diagnostic classification of patients control the intake of the hospitals,
                    while inadequate facilities 
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., 1933, 7.
                  
                     59
                            Indiana Bulletin of Charities and Corrections, Sept., 1933,
                            202–201.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., March and April, 1931, 208–204.
               
                     act as a mechanical control of the hospital population.
                    Institutional care is legally available to any person who can be shown to have legal residence in
                    Indiana, which is defined as "one unbroken year's residence in the
                        state."61 Non-residents are entitled to institutional care upon two
                    conditions, namely; inability to ascertain the legal residence and upon the authorization of the
                    Department of Public Welfare based upon a satisfactory investigation.62 Legal
                    regulations define the procedure of admission. Right to commitment depends upon the findings at the
                    inquest of the patient.
            The procedural development of the inquest, diagnostic classification of patients and procedure of
                    terminating hospital residence indicate, in some measure, the growth and significance of medical
                    control. The important change in the procedure of the inquest, which is required for commitment, is
                    the gradual introduction of medical evidence based upon the assumption that insanity is of a
                    pathological nature. The first reference to testimony of a medical nature, is in the Territorial
                    Laws of 1815, which specify that a medical man would be desirable as one of the twelve men summoned
                    "to inspect" the insane person.63 The inspection in nowise
                    involved treatment.
            Acceptability of a physician as a witness is again referred to in the Revised Statutes of 1843, in
                    which it is stated that "the opinion of a witness not being a medical man, as to a
                    person's insanity, is not admissible evidence, unless the facts upon which it is based,
                    have come under his own observation.64 A law of 184365
                    required that "at least one of the witnesses present at the examination shall be a
                    physician." He was required to submit a social and medical history and an account of any
                    treatment rendered the person.66
            
            The slow acceptance of the policy of depending on medical evidence is shown by the requirement in
                        188167 of the testimony of one physician in addition to the attending
                    physician, by whom a social and medical history was submitted 
                  
                     61
                            Laws of Indiana, 1901, 324.
                  
                     62 Burns' Revised Statutes of Indiana.,
                            1933, chap. 22, sec. 1501.
                  
                     63
                            Acts of Indiana Territory, 1816, 66–68.
                  
                     64
                            Indiana Revised Statutes, 1843, 858. See Yeates v. Reed,
                            4 
                                Blackford
                             463; Doe v. Reagan, 5 
                                Blackford
                             217.
                  
                     65
                            Laws of Indiana, 1848, 87.
                  
                     66 Admission to state hospitals for the insane was denied to any
                            person having an Infectious disease until 1921, when a law was passed providing for
                            laboratory tests after which admission was determined by scientific methods. Laws of Indiana, 1921, 106.
                  
                     67
                            Ibid., 1881, 545–555.
               
                     in a sworn statement. In 190168 two
                    physicians were required by statute to report conjointly, in addition to the full statement of the
                    attending physician. Since 1927, three physicians have been required to testify in the proceedings
                    for a person's admission to a state hospital for the insane.69 Thus it
                    is seen, that over a period of eighty years medical evidence introduced into the inquest increased
                    from the required testimony of one physician to that of three physicians.
            A guardian was appointed by jury action until 1895.70 Since that time, like all
                    civil actions under probate jurisdiction, the guardianship is determined by court procedure, or by a
                    jury impaneled by court, if necessary.
            Diagnostic classification of patients as a control of admissions begins with the first hospital for
                    the insane in 1848 which was opened only to curable cases. Twenty years later, the large number of
                    hopelessly incurable cases, added to the fact that these patients could be cared for more
                    economically and more satisfactorily in state institutions, opened the doors of the state hospitals
                    to the incurable insane. The policy was not carried over effectively into administrative measures
                    until 1875.71 The three differentiated types of institutions established for the
                    insane was the direct outcome of diagnostic classification, in an attempt to relieve overcrowding.
            The importance of diagnostic classification as a control of the population of state hospitals is
                    shown in the annual reports. The Central State Hospital, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , reported in 1930, that quite a number of applications for admission
                    "presented no more than a simple mental condition common to old age, and could be taken
                    care of elsewhere, under proper supervision, and would be far happier in other surroundings
                    … their care in fact, is only custodial and demands no specific treatment, except looking
                    after their physical well-being." The annual report shows that thirty-six cases were
                    rejected and seventy-three cases were suspended.72
            
            The 
                        Madison
                     State Hospital reported in 1931, that "the thirteen patients rejected, lacked
                    merit, or could not be admitted under the law, and that the twenty-nine patients, who 
                  
                     68
                            Ibid., 1901, 529.
                  
                     69
                            Ibid., 1927, 180.
                  
                     70
                            Ibid., 1895, 206.
                  
                     71 Rawles, op. cit., 156–166.
                  
                     72
                            Annual Report of the Central State Hospital, 1930,
                        22–23.
               
                     were suspended were senile, almost without exception, and could
                    be cared for at home."73
            
            The 
                        Richmond
                     State Hospital observed in 1933, that "the number of admissions had declined
                    for three reasons, namely: (1) the difficulty of persuading relatives to take home convalescent
                    patients to make room for other patients; (2) as only the most urgent cases had been admitted during
                    the last two years, the number of convalescent patients had been smaller than usual and; (3) the
                    very low death rate during the year had created fewer vacancies than usual."74
            
            The termination of hospital residence is marked by transfer or discharge of the patient. The Governor
                    has the power to recommend the transfer of any inmate of a benevolent institution, at any time, in
                    his discretion, if the superintendent of the institution deems it advantageous and if the transfer
                    does not lengthen the time of residence of the person so transferred. The latter reservation refers
                    to insane criminals.75
            
            A patient may be discharged upon two conditions, first, upon sufficient recovery. A statement to that
                    effect supplemented by social and medical data, is submitted to the court by the superintendent, and
                    the court in turn, declares the patient sane and free from guardianship. Second, incurable and
                    harmless patients may be discharged to make room for recent acute cases. Such patients are returned
                    to their guardians or are transferred to county institutions.76
            
            Overcrowded conditions act constantly as a mechanical control of hospital population, and modify the
                    policies within the institutions. The overcrowding of state benevolent institutions often sounded a
                    note of emergency and extended state service from necessity.
            Many states require an inquest for reädmission. Indiana is one of the most advanced states
                    in requiring only one inquest. A former patient who has been discharged may be readmitted to a
                    hospital when a physician states that hospital care is needed. The clerk of the circuit court
                    completes the 
                  
                     73
                            Annual Report of the 
                                    Madison
                                 State Hospital, 1931, 52.
                  
                     74
                            Annual Report of the 
                                    Richmond
                                 State Hospital, 1933, 11. This and the two preceding references
                            uniformly express the policy of preference in the admission of curable and acute cases,
                            which was the policy of the first hospital in 1848.
                  
                     75
                            Indiana Bulletin of Charities and Corrections, Dec. 1931. 279; Acts of 1917, 559.
                  
                     76
                            Laws of Indiana, 1933, 1167.
               
                     legal formalities. A second inquest is never necessary for
                    recommitment in Indiana.77
            
            In addition to committed patients, voluntary patients are entitled legally to admission. The law
                    authorizes the superintendent to receive as "a boarder or as a patient, any person suitable
                    for care or treatment who voluntarily makes written application therefor. He must agree to abide by
                    the established rules and regulations and to give ten days' notice in writing, of his
                    desire to leave the institution." The application for admission must be endorsed by two
                    reputable practising physicians.78
            
            Although the policy of admitting voluntary patients, is legal, it does not appear that the practice
                    of admitting them has been extensive. The Central State Hospital and the 
                        Richmond
                     State Hospital consider the conditions under which voluntary patients may leave the
                    institution a distinct disadvantage and base their opinion on the fact that the termination of
                    residence may have nothing to do with improvement in the mental illness for treatment of which
                    admission had been requested.
            Clinics for the treatment of persons resident in the respective areas of jurisdiction of the state
                    hospitals vary, and on the whole, have not developed sufficiently to become an effective part of the
                    state care of the insane.
            In summary, legal regulations and diagnostic classification control the intake of state hospitals for
                    the insane while medical prognoses and overcrowding control the discharge of patients. Few voluntary
                    admissions are reported and the development of clinics for convalescents and out-patients has been
                    relatively ineffective. Emphasis remains upon the institutional care of the insane.
            SUMMARY
            
            The development of state responsibility for the care of the insane has been slow. A century and a
                    half has elapsed since the first legislation protected the insane person by a locally appointed
                    guardian. Custodial care in poor asylums followed and curable cases only were admitted to the first
                    state hospital which made medical care possible in 1846. In 
                  
                     77 Hurd, op, cit., 320–321.
                  
                     78
                            Laws of Indiana, 1919, 784–735.
               
                     time institutions offering specialized treatment for particular
                    types of mental disorders appeared.
            Neglect of the insane and partisan political strategy needed to be counteracted before a state
                    service could be permanently established. Investigations and reports were made and public opinion
                    aroused. Persevering citizens, voluntary organizations, thoughtful philanthropists, officials and
                    legislators worked diligently and intelligently to meet specific immediate aims, such as, the
                    increase of appropriations and physical facilities, the introduction of legal checks and efficient
                    business methods in administration, the improvement of personnel, and a higher degree of centralized
                    state service. The translation of higher ideals of social service into statutory enactment marked
                    each step in the gradual development of the present state care of mental patients.
            The growth of the service has been correlated in a measure with state and national crises. Entrance
                    upon statehood brought county asylums into existence; the founding of the present state capital is
                    coincident with the allotting of a hospital site; and world-wide economic slowing-down necessitated
                    stock-taking in terms of costs, purposes and results, under the guidance of specialists, in an
                    attempt to redefine the social responsibilities of the state.
            The growth of the state service has been comprehensive from the legal point of view and
                    centralization in administration has been well developed. But the supervision of state hospitals for
                    the insane is regional since it is in the hands of individual boards and a superintendent. The
                    regional supervision of hospitals tends to emphasize institutional treatment with its definite
                    limitations and hinders a more scientific and comprehensive program for the treatment of the insane,
                    which could more probably be developed under a state psychiatrist with state wide jurisdiction.
            When Governor Paul V. McNutt was given authority to reorganize the state government in 1933, he
                    recognized government as a basis of the welfare and prosperity of human society and defined the
                    reorganization as "an effort toward the improvement of the social structure of our
                    people." The Governor in referring to the goal of reorganization said that "the
                    end must be sought in the integration of our welfare activities; 
                    when we reach that end, we will be able to perform the duties imposed upon us by law and likewise by
                    society, in serving the needs of our people."79
            
            
               
                  79 Gov. Paul V. McNutt (President State Board of Public Welfare),
                        "The Integration of Welfare Activities," in Indiana Bulletin of
                            Charities and Corrections, Nov., 1936, 402.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana's Second State Fair
            By WILLIAM M. RESER
            
            The Second State Fair of Indiana was held at 
                        Lafayette
                    , October 10–14, 1853.1 The First had been held at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , October 19–21, 1852. These Fairs were among the first in America, such
                    expositions being a part of a new movement to improve the system of agriculture prevailing in large
                    portions of the 
                        United States
                    .
            Very early in our state's existence the individuals of most trades, professions, or other
                    pursuits of life formed associations or societies for mutual advancement and protection. The tillers
                    of the soil were behind all others in organizing, because, being so isolated, they had been
                    accustomed to solve their own problems, each by his own initiative.
            In Indiana the first attempt to organize husbandry was made on April 8, 1809, when a group of
                    citizens of 
                        Knox
                     County meeting at the court house in 
                        Vincennes
                     perfected an organization for the purpose of "encouraging agriculture and
                    manufactures." They elected William Henry Harrison (Territorial Governor) president, and
                    John Johnson secretary.2 At that time there did not exist any statutory act
                    governing such an organization. This organization was active for some time, as shown by
                    announcements of meetings from time to time in the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Western Sun.3
               
            
            The first Indiana act relative to the formation and governing of agricultural societies (limited to
                    county or district) was passed on January 22, 1829.4 This was superseded by an
                    act of February 7, 1835, which provided for the organization of a State Board of Agriculture, as
                    well as county and township societies.5 This was revised or added to, in some
                    minor details, in 1847.6 Immediately following this act, a State Board of
                    Agriculture was organized, but its operations were feeble and inefficient and results were small.
                    Before 1850 it was in such an inactive state as to be practically nonexistant.
            
               
                  1 This paper was read before one of the sessions (Saturday, P.M.) of the
                        seventeenth annual Indiana History Conference which was held at the Claypool and Lincoln Hotels
                        in 
                            Indianapolis
                         on Dec. 18–14, 1935.
               
                  2
                        
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Western Sun, April 8, 1809; 
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Courier, March 26, 1853.
               
                  3
                        Western Sun, July 8, 1809; April 14, 21, May B, 13, 19, 26, June 2, and July
                        14, 28, 1810; June 22 and July 6, 1811.
               
                  4
                        Revised Laws of Indiana, 1831, 67–69.
               
                  5
                        Ibid., 1834–1840, 87–94.
               
                  6
                        General Laws of Indiana, 1847, 128.
            
            
            In 
                        England
                     at this time—middle of the nineteenth century—every phase of the
                    agricultural industry had to be carried on efficiently in order that the restricted land area might
                    produce as much as possible of the food and clothing needed to supply the ever increasing
                    population. There, land was limited but labor was abundant and cheap, while in America, land was
                    exceedingly plentiful and labor scarce and high. There, farming methods were intensive, while here
                    they were superficial and slovenly. In America, man power for the harvest was scarce and consumption
                    of farm products limited. It was not a question of raising a crop but how, with the shortage of
                    labor, to harvest it. About this time—1840 to 1850—transportation facilities
                    began to develop, thus making an outlet for surplus products. This stimulated American genius to
                    invent machinery for abridging human toil in the cultivation and harvesting of crops.
            At this time American students of agriculture began to comprehend the resources and limitations of
                    the fertility of their farms. They began to observe the practical verification of Liebig's
                    theory of vegetable growth—that it consisted in taking chemicals from the soil, mainly,
                    and converting them into plant structures; and that continuously taking from, and never returning
                    anything to it, was robbing mother earth of her fertility. Thus, attention was directed to the
                    preservation of soil fertility. Not only was the soil studied but other scientific agricultural
                    principles were introduced and practiced such as: the careful selecting and the developing of new
                    and better varieties of seeds; improving of stock by scientific breeding, promoting horticulture;
                    and, in many other ways adopting more modern methods and policies. It was only advanced farmers who
                    did not have "wheat that turned to cheat," any more than cats that turned to rats.
                    Neither did they raise long-nosed, arch-backed, slab-sided hogs —
                    "razor-backs" (sometimes called "landpikes" or
                    "alligators")—that were built more for penetrating thickets and racing
                    across prairies than for the pork barrel; nor scraggy cattle, more adapted to serve as hat racks
                    than as subjects for the butcher's block. Nor did they thumb the almanac looking up the
                    signs of the zodiac so as to cooperate with the moon; nor depend upon chance to
                    give them "good luck" or "bad luck." Instead, they  coupled industry with observation, experience and study for the
                    attainment of advancement and success in their vocation.
            The non-progressive state of American agriculture was especially emphasized when, at the Universal Fair held at Hyde Park, 
                        London
                    , in 1851 (the first international exposition ever held), the products of American farms
                    were outclassed in every department.7 This was especially humiliating to our
                    farmers, because American soil was rated as being the most fertile, originally, of any under
                    cultivation in the world. But for genius and skill in designing and constructing implements, the
                    Americans carried off the highest honors. The department exhibiting the iron-bottom plow and the
                    Mc-Cormick reaper was one of the most popular at the 
                        London
                     Fair. Despite the prejudice against the iron plow, on the ground that it would poison
                    the soil; and the ridicule heaped upon the reaper by a 
                        London
                     periodical, which called it "an ugly cross between a windmill and a flying
                    machine," the manufacturers placed many, many orders and leased many patterns upon which
                    they were to receive royalties.8
            
            Until the middle of the nineteenth century, America was behind all other countries, in her class, in
                    her system of agriculture. She had no schools, national, state or private, for teaching the
                    scientific principles of farming. The leaders of agriculture in Indiana, observing the results of
                    scientific practices in other countries, believed that this great industry should adopt locally some
                    organized method for educating the tillers of the soil. Fostering this idea they secured the passage
                    of an act on February 14, 1851, by which a new State Board of Agriculture and county-societies could
                    be organized. This act went further than its-predecessors in making it possible to receive
                    appropriations from public funds to assist in financing agricultural fairs.9
                    These fairs, with their displays and lectures, were called "Peoples Colleges" for
                    educating the common farmers in the first principles of the science of their vocation. Pursuant to
                    this act, a group of men met on May 27, 1851, in the Hall of the House of Representatives in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and organized the State Board of Agriculture, which has been in active existence ever
                        since.10 They unanimously 
                  
                     7
                            Report of the Indiana State Board of Agriculture, 1856, 652.
                  
                     8
                            Report of the Indiana State Board of Agriculture, 1851, 88. Address of
                            Joseph R. Williams.
                  
                     9
                            Report of State Board of Agriculture, 1869, 263–270.
                  
                     10
                            Report of State Board of Agriculture, 1851, 5.
               
                     elected as president, Joseph A. Wright, then Governor of
                    Indiana; and as secretary, John B. Dillon, Indiana's eminent historian.11
            
            The greatest incentive to the enactment of this law of 1851 was the demand for agricultural
                    education. All through the official actions of the Board and in addresses before the meetings of the
                    state and county organizations for the first ten or more years, was voiced a plea for agricultural
                    schools, or a curriculum somewhere within the existing schools, by which the science of agriculture
                    would be taught. At the second session of the Board, in January, 1852, it was "Resolved,
                    That the Board appoint a committee to take into consideration the propriety of suggesting some
                    feasible plan for the establishment of an agricultural school."12 For
                    the accomplishment of this object there was proposed every conceivable plan or measure; for
                    instance, a branch in the common schools, a chair in the State University at 
                        Bloomington
                    , or the establishment of a regular agricultural university. When all these seemed
                    likely to fail, serious consideration was given to a proposal that the State Board of Agriculture,
                    itself, foster an agricultural college. After thorough investigation and much deliberation this idea
                    was abandoned because it "would cost a sum of money which is entirely beyond the control of
                    this board."13
            
            When the Morrill Act, which proposed donating public lands to the individual states for the purpose
                    of endowing agricultural colleges, came up in the federal Congress, the Indiana State Board of
                    Agriculture officially endorsed it and petitioned members from Indiana to vote for its passage.14 After the law was passed, July 2, 1862,15 and the Indiana
                    Legislature delayed complying with the terms of acceptance of the land grant, it was petitioned by
                    the Board to act,16 which was finally done on March 6, 1865,17 following which Purdue University was founded on May 6, 1869.18
            
            At the first meeting of the Indiana State Board of Agriculture in 1851 there were adopted ten rules,
                    one of which 
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., 15–16.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 30.
                  
                     13
                            Report of State Board of Agriculture, 1856, 6.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 1868–1859, xxii.
                  
                     15
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, XII, 503.
                  
                     16
                            Report of State Board of Agriculture, 1865, 231.
                  
                     17
                            General Laws of Indiana, 1866, 106–111.
                  
                     18
                            Laws of Indiana, Special Session, 1869, 24–26.
               
                     was, that annual exhibitions—fairs—must be
                    held between the first of September and the first of November.19 No fair was
                    held the year the Board was organized. The first exhibition took place on October 19–21,
                    1852, upon a tract of land adjoining the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , reserved by the state and generally known as the "military
                        grounds."20 This site is known today, as Military Park, and has
                    been within the 
                        Indianapolis
                     city limits for many years.
            After the first fair had been held at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and the State Board had voted to adopt, like other states, the migratory
                    system—holding the fair from year to year at different points in the state21—the place of holding the second fair was opened "to the bid of the
                    several cities of the state."22 Among the contenders was 
                        Lafayette
                    , situated on the 
                        Wabash
                     River, a stream noted ever since the days of the French explorers for its trade routes
                    and the fertile lands in its valley.
            One of the many claims made by 
                        Lafayette
                     for its selection was its accessibility. It had steamboat service, being at the head of
                    navigation on the 
                        Wabash
                     River. It had canal transportation, for the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal passed through the city as it traversed the region between 
                        Toledo
                     on Lake Erie at the north, and 
                        Evansville
                     on the 
                        Ohio
                     River at the south. Added to these water transportation facilities were two railroads
                    that had just been completed, one from 
                        New Albany
                     to 
                        Michigan
                     City and the other from 
                        Lafayette
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The former has the reputation of having the first locomotive under its own power, to
                    turn a wheel in the 
                        Wabash
                     Valley (June 20, 1851),23 and, also, the first passenger coach to
                    cross the 
                        Wabash
                     River anywhere, when on August 20, 1853, it made a courtesy run to the Battle
                        Ground.24
                    
                        Lafayette
                     also boasted of a new plank road, starting from 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , twenty-eight miles to the south, and extending to and through the town to 
                        Dayton
                    , eight miles to the east. 
                        Lafayette
                     claimed entertainment facilities because of its numerous public houses and the
                    proverbial hospitality of its citizens —every home being open to guests. About six weeks
                    before the fair was to open, the Bramble House, one of the finest 
                  
                     19
                            Report of State Board of Agriculture, 1851, 18.
                  
                     20
                            Indiana. Farmer, I, 328–360.
                  
                     21
                            Report of State Board of Agriculture, 1852, 66.
                  
                     22
                            
                        
                                    Lafayette
                                 Journal, March 10, 1853.
                  
                     23 Diary of S. K. Richards.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal, Aug. 23, 1853.
               
                     hostelries in the state at that time, was completed and opened
                    for business.25
            
            This city (
                        Lafayette
                    ) promptly signified its willingness to comply with the State Board's
                    requirements for securing location: Namely, 20 acres or more, of ground, fenced; a
                    speaker's stand and seats for 2,000; two buildings, each 200 feet long and 20 feet wide,
                    known as Manufacturer's Hall and Mechanic's Hall; 200 good substantial stalls for
                    horses; well covered pens and other structures for cattle, sheep, swine and fowls; offices for
                    secretary and treasurer; ample forage and water, and $2,000 in cash to be paid by
                    September 20, 1853.
            
               
                        Lafayette
                    's application for the location of this fair having been accepted, she
                    fulfilled the requirements in a satisfactory manner. Horace Greeley, a noted guest at the fair,
                    stated that "The citizens of 
                        Lafayette
                     have done their whole duty in the premises."26
            
            
               
                        Lafayette
                     submitted to the committee on location five sites from which to choose: The 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County Agricultural Society's grounds, Stockton's Grove, the grounds
                    of God-love S. Orth, and W. K. Rochester's land. This last tract was chosen, the use of
                    which was donated by the owner. It consisted of an elevated table-land of thirty acres or more,
                    bounded by a ravine on the south, what is now 
                        Washington
                     Street on the west, Kossuth Street on the north, and the "Circle" of
                    Highland Park addition on the east. Within the boundaries of this tract few ground changes have been
                    made within the intervening eighty-two years, except that it is divided into two parts by a deep cut
                    made when Fourth Street was constructed on its present grade, and a gash made in the north side when
                    Fifth Street was opened. This table-land area topped one of the bluffs that bordered the valley of
                    the 
                        Wabash
                    , and consisted of a wooded area interspersed with open spaces. The western point jutted
                    out from the main body of the elevated ground and commanded an inspiring view of the 
                        Wabash
                     River basin and its bordering hills, with the city of 
                        Lafayette
                     lying in the foreground on the northeast. Upon the highest and most commanding point an
                    observation tower fifty feet high was erected. Here, visitors, for a nominal sum, each, were
                    elevated, by man power, to the top to view the scenic panorama of the 
                        Wabash
                     Valley with its bordering 
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., March 10, 1853.
                  
                     26
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune, quoted in 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal, Oct. 11, 1853.
               
                     wooded hills. From the top of this tower could be seen, also,
                    five of the surrounding prairies: namely, Grand, Wild Cat, Pretty and Wea prairies, and Wea Plains.
            The fair was held October 10–14, 1853. On the last day, Thursday, Horace Greeley, of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune, delivered the address of the occasion on "What the
                        Sister Arts Teach as to Farming." The address "was one of the Lion
                    matters of the occasion" 27 and "was more extensively
                    published by the papers than any other address of the same kind."28
                    This address teemed with deep thought and its style of composition was most commendable.
                    Greeley's outstanding plea was, that a farmer should be educated in the science of his
                    calling. But he further stated; "If they [the farmers] were to turn on me with the inquiry,
                    'Where shall we study? How and where are we to learn how to analyze soils and make
                    ourselves familiar with all the science which lies at the base of agriculture,' I would
                    have to reply, 'There is no such institution in America.' "29 But if he stood today, at that same spot, he could most truthfully answer that inquiry
                    by pointing to the northwest and saying: "Yonder, in the distance where those chimneys and
                    those red-tile-roofed buildings appear is an institution that is at your service, ready to impart
                    all that is known of scientific agriculture—it is, Purdue University!"
            At the time (1853), the whole scientific world was agog with Liebig's theory as to the
                    composition of the soil and its relation to organic chemistry, or plant life. Horace Greeley, and
                    others went so far as to say that the farmer who could not chemically analyze his soil, tell wherein
                    it was deficient or superabundant in certain elements, and adjust the constituents to the crops he
                    wished to raise, was not a scientific farmer.30
            
            In that decade, all lecturers at agricultural meetings talked in terms of
                    oxygen-carbon-hydrogen-nitrogen-potash-soda-ammonia-manganese-lime-alumina-silex, et
                        cetera, et cetera, apparently under the impression that every farmer should have a little
                    laboratory in the corner of his woodshed or in his kitchen where he could utilize part of his noon
                    hour each 
                  
                     27
                            Wabask Courier (
                                Terre Haute
                            ), Oct. 22, 1858.
                  
                     28
                            Indiana Journal (
                                Indianapolis
                            ), Oct. 26, 1868.
                  
                     29
                            Report of the State Board of Agriculture, 1853, 28.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., 21.
               
                     day in analyzing the clod or the stalk of vegetation he had been
                    working over that very morning. These lecturers were not dirt farmers at all, but lawyers, doctors,
                    politicians, and the like, who had been reading some of the mass of literature scattered throughout
                    the world since Liebig of 
                        Germany
                    , the "Father of Agricultural Chemistry," had propounded his popular
                    theory on organic chemistry before the British Agricultural Association in 1840 and again in 1842.
                    Some of the most advanced chemists of the period from 1850 to 1860 in their enthusiasm over the
                    advancement attained, made the flat statement that organic chemistry had reached the status of an
                    exact science. We are informed, and reliably so, that, even today, organic chemistry has not reached
                    the point where it can be termed an exact science.
               31
            
            Though the laboratory has explained many things that were formerly enigmatical, and made many amazing
                    revelations, still, it cannot explain chemically, why Indiana apples have an unsurpassed flavor; or,
                    why the Greeley potatoes of 
                        Colorado
                    , or the Rocky Ford melons of the same state, are superior in taste to all others; or,
                    why the maple syrup of 
                        Vermont
                     is unequaled. And we might add, also, that the chemical laboratory cannot explain why
                    the state of 
                        Kentucky
                     acquired the reputation of having the most beautiful women; although we admit today,
                    that, chemicals are reputed to have something to do with improving the attractiveness of most, if
                    not all, of our women folk—especially if we believe the radio announcers.
            As the date for the Second State Fair approached, 
                        Lafayette
                     began to fill with visitors. They came afoot, on horseback, by private conveyances,
                    canal packets, steamboats, stagecoaches and by railroad cars, until the capacity of the town was
                    strained to the utmost. The normal population of 
                        Lafayette
                     was under ten thousand people, but by Thursday it had jumped to an estimated sixty
                    thousand souls.32 The visitors could be handled during the day, but how and
                    where to bed them at night was a serious proposition. Private homes as well as public houses were
                    crowded to capacity. The Masonic, Odd Fellows, and Temperance halls were thrown open and
                    "All bedless persons were gratuitously taken in and 
                  
                     31 "All competent chemists unqualifiedly assert that organic
                            chemistry is not an exact science."—S. D. Conner, M.S., Research
                            Chemist, Purdue University.
                  
                     32
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal, Oct. 12, 1853.
               
                     snugly cared for."33 Steamboats and
                    canal packets tied up at the wharfs were filled with sleepers. Many went by the newly completed
                    railroad to 
                        Crawfordsville
                     for night lodging. The Indiana Journal reported that "The
                    private citizens did everything in their power for the comfort and accommodation of
                        strangers."34 With all the hordes of people crowded into the small
                    town and grounds, "there was not a single accident reported."35 But that was before this speed-craze age of automobiles.
            The newly built and inadequately equipped railroads were so overtaxed handling the
                    passengers—five thousand came by rail alone—the fair exhibits and the
                    increased freight incident to the exposition, as to be almost completely broken down when the
                    departing rush commenced on Friday. On Friday morning Horace Greeley started by the 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     Railroad for LaPorte where he was scheduled for an address at one o'clock
                    Saturday. After numerous mishaps the engine became completely disabled by the time Brookston was
                    reached. There being no other engine obtainable, he boarded a handcar propelled, at first, by four
                    sons of Erin working in relays of two. These were replaced at Culvertown by two Germans. They crept
                    along through the night and finally, at four in the morning, reached Westville; from there, after
                    two hours rest, Mr. Greeley departed by wagon on the remaining eleven miles of the trip. He arrived
                    at LaPorte in time to make his scheduled address. After returning to 
                        New York
                     he wrote for his paper, the 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune, an article entitled, "A NIGHT RIDE ON A HANDCAR,"
                    classically portraying his trip and correctly foretelling the future of the region traversed, along
                    the route of the Monon Railroad from 
                        Lafayette
                     to Westville.36
            
            For a description of the fair and the exhibits dependence must be placed, mainly, upon notes gleaned
                    from Horace Greeley's account, which was reprinted in the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Journal of October 22, 1853. He described the exhibits as "a mixture of
                    good, bad and indifferent." The arrangement of the grounds, he stated, seemed to have
                    pleased everybody. Of 
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., Oct. 17, 1853.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., quoting from the Indiana Journal.
                  
                  
                     35
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal, Oct. 17, 1853.
                  
                     36 Brookston is about 12 miles north of 
                                Lafayette
                            . Westville, a town on the railway line from Mew 
                                Albany
                             to 
                                Michigan
                             City, is 11 miles southwest of LaPorte. Over the route followed by Greeley, he
                            must have traveled in all close to ninety miles by hand car and wagon in his heroic effort
                            to keep his engagement in LaPorte.
               
                     cattle and horses there were hundreds, but with few exceptions
                    they showed lack of scientific breeding or competent selection. The sheep and swine exhibit, he
                    pronounced poor. Of chickens, there were multitudes, a splendid collection of fine birds among which
                    Shanghais predominated. Of ducks and turkeys, there were only a few. Of apples, there was as fine a
                    display as ever seen. Pears, very few and indifferent as to quality. Peaches were few, but fine
                    specimens; grapes, only a few and those mediocre. Butter and cheese were good, but there was a very
                    meagre showing. Of honey, there was a good display. Of manufactured articles and implements there
                    was a very limited display. There were squashes so immense that ten weighed half a ton, the largest
                    one weighing 185 pounds. Surely the soil where they grew was not lacking in fertility. Of onions and
                    potatoes, there was a good display. Greeley's final comment on the Fair was:
                    "Interesting, should have been magnificent."
            The 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Journal of October 17, 1853, stated: "Not a single sample of Cereal was
                    upon the ground … not a grain of Wheat, or of Corn (except, indeed, as horse feed or as
                    required to test the efficiency of some corn sheller) was to be seen. Neither was there a thimble
                    full of Clover or Timothy seed…. There were quilts enough on exhibition—and
                    magnificent quilts they were too—to overlay the whole state from the Miami to the
                    Kankakee." No wonder people of today are pleasantly surprised when they have an opportunity
                    to inspect a display of old quilts, for many of them are fine indeed. They were an outlet for the
                    art instincts of frontier women.
            The following items are gathered from the Treasurer's report for 1853.37
            
            Receipts:
            
               
                  From sale of badges ($1.00 each)
                  $4,874.50
               
               
                  From sale of tickets (25c each)
                  1,876.50
               
               
                  Other receipts
                  679.77
               
               
                  Total
                  $7,430.77
               
            
            
               
                  37
                        Report of State Board of Agriculture, 1863, 39–40. On the face of
                        the Treasurer's report, it might be inferred that the sale of badges at one dollar each
                        saved the management of the fair from financial disaster. However, since each badge-holder was
                        privileged to use his badge as a family season-ticket, it seems clear that the sale of such
                        badges was a losing venture. During the period of the Fair, a great many badges covered a large
                        number of admissions, especially since quite a few families entering the grounds tended to
                        include "extra members."
            
            
            Disbursements:
            
               
                  Bill for silverware (prizes)
                  $1,564.45
               
               
                  Premiums paid in cash
                  842.00
               
               
                  Other expenses
                  3,993.17
               
               
                  Total
                  $6,399.62
               
               
                  Balance
                  $1,031.15
               
            
            The total number of entries according to the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Journal of Oct. 17, 1853 was 1500. Premiums in those days consisted, for the most
                    part, in silverware, subscriptions to farm journals, and diplomas.38
            
            While the State Fair of 1853 may not have been "magnificent," as Horace Greeley
                    lamented, yet it awakened an interest in high farming which eventually resulted in the establishment
                    of an institution for educating the tillers of the soil in the science as well as the art of
                    farming.
            It seems to have been prophetic that from the spot on that elevated table-land where the
                    speaker's stand was erected to be used on that fourteenth day of October, 1853, one can
                    look, today, out over the city of 
                        Lafayette
                     and the 
                        Wabash
                     River, stream noted in history and song, and over the tree tops and homes of West 
                        Lafayette
                    , and see in the distance the buildings of Purdue University, the institution devoted
                    in" part to Scientific Agriculture. Purdue University—the plea of Horace Greeley
                    for the teaching of science in farming, come to fruition.
            
               
                  38 The term diplomas refers to certificates issued to
                        those who made exhibits, expressing recognition of meritorious articles.
            
         
         
         
            The Need of a Printer in Indiana Territory
            By DOUGLAS C. MCMURTRIE
            
            As is well known, the first printing office in Indiana was established by Elihu Stout, who published
                    the initial issue of the Indiana Gazette on July 31, 1804. Stout had previously
                    been employed by William Bradford, dean of 
                        Kentucky
                     printers. Other relationships between Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                     are known to have been close.
            The identity of Elihu Stout's employer, just prior to his coming to Indiana, is known to us
                    from a passage in the Journal of the Senate at the second session of the sixth General Assembly of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1798 (p. 15), which was encountered in the course of a study of early 
                        Kentucky
                     printing. This passage occurs in an appeal by John Bradford for reappointment as public
                    printer, in the course of which he names "all the artists in the printing business in the
                    state." These numbered eleven in all, and Stout was one of the five in Bradford's
                    employ.
            In 1802, the territorial laws had been sent to William Hunter at 
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               , for
                    printing. In 1803, Governor William Henry Harrison again felt the need for making available in
                    printed form, to the widely scattered residents of the region, later enactments of the territorial
                    legislature. He evidently wrote on November 17, 1803, to this effect to his superior officer at 
                        Washington
                    , James Madison, Secretary of State. The letter of the governor cannot be found, but an
                    idea of its contents can be gained from 
                        Madison
                    's reply under date of December 21, 1803, a copy of which is preserved in the
                    archives of the State Department:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Department of State,
                           
                                    Dec. 21st, 1803.
                                
                        Wm. H. Harrison Esq.
                        Govr. of the Indiana Territory.
                        Sir.
                        I have just received your letter of the 17th ult. requesting permission to employ a
                                    printer in 
                                        Kentucky
                                     to publish some of the laws of your Territory. I have no authority by
                                    law to cause such publications to be made, that of the 8th may 1792, being
                                    inapplicable to the present case, I can only suggest that the contingent fund,
                                    annually appropriated for the government of the Indiana Territory, seems to embrace
                                    such an expense, and that on the account being transmitted to the Treasury with  your or the Secretary's certificate to
                                    its correctness payment would be made.
                        
                                    I am Etc
                                    James Madison
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            The printer referred to was undoubtedly William Bradford, who was then operating two printing offices
                    in 
                        Kentucky
                    —one at 
                        Lexington
                    , the other at 
                        Frankfort
                    . A later reference tends to confirm this conjecture.
            The probability is that Governor Harrison was thinking, not of publication of the Indiana territorial
                    laws in the columns of a 
                        Kentucky
                     newspaper, but of having them printed by Bradford in book or pamphlet form.
            In addition to printing the territorial laws, it was considered important that the laws enacted by
                    the national Congress should be printed serially in various newspapers throughout the country. For
                    such publication the local printer was compensated by the federal government. The type of
                    arrangement between the national authorities and the newspaper publishers is indicated by the
                    following copy of a contemporary circular letter to "District Printers," which is
                    also found in the archives of the Department of State:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Department of State,
                           
                                    Dec. 20th, 1803
                                
                        To the several District Printers.
                        Sir.
                        Being desirous of continuing your Gazette as a medium of promulgating the laws of the
                                    present Congress within the State of —. You will find enclosed copies of
                                    the first laws passed by them. The compensation like that of the last will be at the
                                    rate of 50 Cents p. page of the octavo edition of the laws printed at the seat of
                                    Government a specimen of which was sent you in my last. You will be pleased to
                                    inform me without delay of your determination to accept or decline the
                                    reappointment. If you accept you will commence the printing as soon as possible and
                                    during its continuance, as heretofore, forward your paper to this office free of
                                    expense as part of the contract.
                        
                                    I am Etc
                                    James Madison
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            It was left to territorial governors to designate the newspaper or newspapers within the area under
                    their jurisdiction who should receive the coveted plum of publishing the Laws of the 
                        United States
                    . Evidently Governor Harrison of Indiana was asked to designate a local newspaper. As
                    there was none then being printed in Indiana, he named a newspaper  being published in 
                        Kentucky
                     by William Bradford—undoubtedly the 
                  
                            Kentucky
                         Gazette at 
                        Lexington
                    , as we learn by the following reply to his communication (archives of the State
                    Department):
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Department of State
                           
                                    June 14th, 1804
                                
                        Govr. Harrison
                        
                           
                                        Vincennes
                                    .
                        Sir.
                        I have received your letter of the 17th inst.—It was my intention to
                                    confide the appointment of a Gazette to print the Laws of the 
                                        United States
                                    , entirely to you, and the reasons you assign for the choice of Wm.
                                    Bradford's are satisfactory. I have no control over the sum appropriated
                                    for the contingent expenses of your Territory; and therefore cannot prevent the
                                    payment of the accounts for stationary out of it; but if neither yourself nor the
                                    Secretary of the Territory direct supplies of stationary to be furnished your object
                                    will be attained provided no outstanding accounts exist to absorb the
                                    appropriations.
                        An appropriation was made to pay the expense of the civil government of 
                                        Louisiana
                                    , but it is feared that it will not be sufficient to cover the expenses
                                    incurred and to be incurred under the Administration of Governor Claiborne; no part
                                    of it can therefore be counted upon for printing the Laws, which may be made for
                                    that part of the Territory which after the 1st of Octr. next will be united with the
                                    Indiana Territory; but no doubt can be entertained that Congress will at their next
                                    session make provision for all the expenses which may be necessarily incurred. By
                                    recurring to the 13th Section of the law providing for the Government of the two
                                    territories in which 
                                        Louisiana
                                     is to be divided, you will find that the laws of 
                                        Louisiana
                                     will remain in force after the first of October under certain
                                    modifications; and therefore the entirely new code you contemplate is unnecessary
                                    and ought not to be published: all, that appears to be indispensable are laws for
                                    organizing the Courts, the Militia and laying out the Territory into districts.
                                    Exclusively of the annual appropriation of 350 Dolls, for the contingent expenses of
                                    the territory, which will be sufficient to pay the current expenses of the year,
                                    there is an unexpended balance of 480 Dollars, which may be applied to the expense
                                    of printing territorial laws.
                        
                                    I am Etc
                                    James Madison
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            From the latter part of this letter it is apparent that Governor Harrison also wished to have printed
                    a code of territorial laws, a project which 
                        Madison
                     discouraged.
            Soon, however, after the receipt of this letter by Governor Harrison, Elihu Stout must have arrived
                    at 
                        Vincennes
                    , with his printing materials. This solved all problems, for the local newspaper could
                    publish in its columns, to be broadcast to all  the residents of
                    the territory, the laws of the 
                        United States
                     and the laws of the territory as well.
            Stout's services were also available for printing local laws in book form. They were soon
                    utilized to this effect, for later in that same year we find his imprint on a volume of one hundred
                    thirty-seven pages:
            "Laws for the Government of the District of 
                        Louisiana
                     passed by the Governor and Judges of the Indiana Territory, at their first session,
                    n[b]egun and held at 
                        Vincennes
                    , on Monday the first day of October, 1804. Published by authority. 
                        Vincennes
                    , (I. T.) Printed by E. Stout, 1804."
         
         
         
            The 
                        Monticello
                     Circuit of the Methodist Church A Hundred Years of Methodist Progress
            By J. MILTON WILLIAMS
            
            The beautiful 
                        Tippecanoe
                     River flows beneath overhanging bluffs where clings and climbs 
                        Monticello
                    , the county seat of White County, Indiana. 
                        Monticello
                     Methodists in the year 1933 observed their own Century of Progress.1 Away back in the glacial age, nature put on vast engineering projects to create here at
                    Horse Shoe Bend a stage for future social empire. Observing northwestern Indiana with some
                    geographical discrimination, we see three or four gateways between northern and southern areas: 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , 
                        Logansport
                    , 
                  Lafayette, Monticello
               . Even in the days of the Redman, 
                        Monticello
                     was a natural crossing place of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , a way-station on one of the great Indian trails of the Potawatomi. Tardy in industrial
                    development for almost a century, it is significant that 
                        Monticello
                     has commanded notice and gone forward as an agricultural and social center, and also as
                    the center of a noble type of community life. The stage seems to be set for greater things.
            In 1835 the Indiana Methodist Conference met at 
                        Lafayette
                    . Then Charles Elliott, distinguished Methodist journalist, came to that village for the
                    first time. Pausing with a friend at the top of Oakland Hill, he looked down enrapt, spell-bound on
                    the grand old 
                        Wabash
                     River, the hills and forests that lined it, and its fringes of fields and flowers. He
                    exclaimed that heaven itself could scarcely be more beautiful. To one who has seen the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     River all the way from Talma to Hog-Point,2 and walked on its rocky
                    bed for mile on mile, the beauty and sublimity of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     can be considered second to none. Here is a geographical setting for Hoosier history,
                    and no less for Methodist history for which a century is only an interesting and challenging
                    beginning.
            The Catholic in standing for the fundamental relation 
                  
                     1 This paper, as here published, is an adaptation of an address
                            delivered at the centennial celebration held at 
                                Monticello
                             in October, 1933. The writer was at that time the official historian of the
                            Northwest Indiana Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church.
                  
                     2 Hog-Point is the name which was given by pioneers to the fertile,
                            angular flood-plain between the 
                                Wabash
                             and the 
                                Tippecanoe
                             above their intersection. Talma is an old village on the 
                                Tippecanoe
                             between 
                                Rochester
                             and Mentone, in the northeast corner of 
                                Fulton
                             County.
               
                     between religion and education is more nearly right than the
                    Protestant. It has been said that there is no Christian mathematics, no Christian astronomy, no
                    Christian botany or zoology. More the pity, if so, for there should be. The worm, the reptile, the
                    fox, the bird find a native habitat and establish a vital as well as a mechanical relationship
                    wherever found. Our pioneer fathers and mothers did the same thing, and their love of country and of
                    God permeated their geographical sense, their biological adjustment, their social development, and
                    their ideals of life. Their genius for frontier exploration, for colonization and conquest and for
                    empire was but an expression of the abundant life which the Son of God promised and which our
                    pioneer fathers and mothers possessed.
            
               
                        Monticello
                     became head of 
                        Monticello
                     Mission Circuit in 1836. Four years before that time, all Indiana had been separately
                    organized as Indiana Conference with five big districts, as follows: 
                        Madison
                     district, reaching from 
                        Marion
                     to 
                        Madison
                     and covering the country along the 
                        Ohio
                     State line; 
                        Charlestown
                     district, reaching entirely across the remainder of the southern edge of the state from
                    the 
                        Madison
                     district westward; 
                        Indianapolis
                     district (
                        Indianapolis
                     was then but eleven years old), reaching from Anderson to 
                        Bloomington
                    ; and 
                        Vincennes
                     district, extending from 
                        Vincennes
                     up the 
                        Wabash
                     River to 
                        Lafayette
                    , stradling the River beyond Attica, and reaching on to 
                        Monticello
                    ; and the Missionary district, with James Armstrong as superintendent, covering most of
                    the territory lying north of the 
                        Wabash
                     River. The work in the last named district was too much for flesh and blood, and
                    Armstrong, the great missionary hero died two years later at Door Village, in 
                        La Porte County
                    . The Church should have its own War Cross, and one should be planted over the grave of
                    Armstrong, the Irish immigrant, called to militant evangelistic warfare and to circuit-rider
                    martyrdom. His dust now reposes at Door Village near one of the churches he organized and built.
            Only two years before that first Indiana Conference, Hackaliah Vredenburg, a descendent of the proud 
                        Van
                     Vreden-burgs of New Amsterdam, had broken down in the work and sought a refuge where he
                    could convalesce at his own expense. The writer knew Aunt Mary Blind, Aunt Sarah Metzger and  Aunt Sarah Pierce, who became Christians under the leadership of
                    this saintly Soldier of the Cross. They were proud of that plain old man, prematurely old because of
                    hardships, and they loved him. In 1829 he was resting; but the call to battle came. Stephen H. Beggs
                    was leaving 
                        Logansport
                     on January 1, 1830, to go to 
                        Chicago
                     to found 
                        Chicago
                     Methodism, a Hoosier contribution to that city's century of progress in
                    Methodism. That year saw churches founded on Logans-port Circuit that still live and grow. In that
                    year, Vredenburg built a log church and parsonage near Thomas Gillam's home, close to the
                    present village of Radnor.3 A few years later, serving at Armstrong, he built
                    another log church and parsonage near Johnson's, in 
                        Warren
                     County. At both places he left evidences of his service, for in one place, a child of
                    his lies buried; in the other, his daughter married.
            Vredenburg was remembered at 
                        Lafayette
                     as long as any man that lived there in his time remained alive. "The path of
                    the just is as the shining light that shineth more and more even unto the perfect day." The
                    reason is clear: only a few years before his coming to 
                        Monticello
                     Circuit, Vredenburg went on the 
                        Vermillion
                     circuit, but found no parsonage and no house for rent. With winter coming on, he must
                    decide on some place quickly. An empty log-stable was available. With his own hands he speedily
                    cleaned it, floored it and otherwise fitted it for a temporary home. High-browed, petted,
                    self-styled aristocrats may now look askance at that rude domicile of one of our most honored
                    pioneer preachers, with his log-stable parsonage and his saddle-bags for a study. But some of us
                    recall that the creator of our gospel was first cradled in a manger at 
                        Bethlehem
                    . In Vredenburg's life we see that gospel toddling away from its cradle,
                    growing into a boy scout, and then going to an army training camp, getting ready for empire. Not
                    many miles away at the very time that Hargrave and Vredenburg, boy preachers, were breaking 
                  
                     3 A little railway station, called Radnor, was established on what
                            later came to be known as the Monon R. R., shortly after this line began to operate trains
                            in 1881 or 1882. The white, frame church ("Palestine"), which had replaced
                            the log church erected under the direction of Vredenberg near the Thomas Gillam home, was
                            moved to the village of Radnor in the spring of 1889 to the site where it still stand. The
                            distance moved was about a half mile. [As a boy, the editor of the Magazine, aided in the removal of the building during two pleasant spring days. He
                            donated his labor (?), as his father, a member of the Church, assigned him to the task. A
                            few others donated labor. The contractor, with a paid helper, was employed on this basis as
                            the church was poor. The contractor was of the Dunker sect, at least his coat, hair and
                            beard were worn in the fashion of men of this faith. He was a constant joker and used
                            language in all his conversation that was not in keeping with his appearance. My conclusion
                            as an astonished youth was that he was a "back-slider," a term I had often
                            heard among Methodists and Baptists.—Editor}.
               
                     loose, Abraham Lincoln was studying the Life of 
                        Washington
                     and reading Shakespeare and the Bible, lying on a cabin-floor and polishing his
                    gray-matter for future use in the White House. Better days were coming—days of moral
                    issues, days of liberation, days of patriotic and gospel triumphs.
            When Vredenburg became pastor of 
                        Monticello
                     Mission Circuit, it was his fourth appointment in that section of the state. In 1825 he
                    had been appointed to 
                        Crawfordsville
                     Circuit, which reached out to 
                        Covington
                     and up the 
                        Wabash
                     River to Nebo, which was a few miles above Delphi. In 1829, he was appointed to 
                        Logansport
                     Circuit, which reached southward to Middle Fork, on the 
                        Michigan
                     Road and westward to Stock-well, and thence to Wild Cat Bluff east of 
                        Lafayette
                    . Beggs was removed on January 1, 1830, and Vredenburg, being located, supplied, doing a
                    marvelous year of work. In 1832, Richard Hargrave and Nehemiah B. Griffith served the new 
                        Lafayette
                     Circuit, then only one year old. Tradition has it that Hargrave preached as pastor at 
                        Monticello
                    . If so, it had to be that very year. Perhaps he did some irregular work there and did
                    not organize. It was in 1833 that Griffith and Vredenburg, a wonderful team, came to 
                        Lafayette
                     Circuit. Griffith had served with distinction down at 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , then at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , at 
                        South Bend
                    , and even at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He was a real preacher of brains, eloquence and evangelistic zeal. He was a genuine
                    Christian filled with the hope that purifies. He died only a year or two later, broken down by hard
                    toil and exposure. Yet he was happy, and exclaimed: "Sweet Heaven, I am coming."
            It was in Orwig's Tavern that something happened which left a mark on 
                        Monticello
                    's religious life. What was the date of the organization? Was it in 1833 or in
                    1836? When was the church established in 
                        Monticello
                    ? Dates of organization are easily muddled. The organization date of 
                        Monticello
                     Circuit is not in question; that was in 1836. But, as has been shown, Vredenburg was
                    appointed in near-by territory four times. The two earlier dates do not fit at all. The Quarterly
                    Conference Minutes of Upper 
                        Wabash
                     Circuit for its one year (a link in 
                        Logansport
                     Circuit) reveal only one appointment clearly which was on the north side of the 
                        Wabash
                     River at Potawotami Mills, 
                        Rochester
                    . In the Quarterly Conference Minutes of Carroll Circuit (actually the first three years
                    of  Delphi Circuit), there is one definite mention of an
                    appointment to the north side of the 
                        Wabash
                    , it is George Culp's Rapids of Iroquois, organized in 1833, but not mentioned
                    again in our records till in 
                        Monticello
                     Circuit minutes for 1836.
            
               
                        Rensselaer
                     has preserved without contradiction the tradition that the Church there was organized
                    in 1833 by Enoch Long. His real name was Enoch Wood, but he was always known by relatives and
                    friends as Long-Enoch, to distinguish him from Enoch G. Wood, an uncle of Rev. Aaron W. Wood, still
                    well-known. Why does this Class of 
                        Rensselaer
                     disappear for two years? First, an Iroquois Circuit was formed in 
                        Illinois
                     which could more easily take care of those border settlements. Traditions in Newton
                    County preserve the fact that a Rev. Leander Walker served several of the Methodist local
                    communities there. In the Gary Library is a book in which there is a lengthy treatment of old
                    Iroquois Circuit, with a statement that it reached from the 
                        Wabash
                     River to the Kankakee. Since Enoch Wood visited as far afield as 
                        Rensselaer
                    , why did he not include 
                        Monticello
                    ? Since we know that 
                        Vincennes
                     and Honey Creek (
                        Terre Haute
                    ) circuits were merged and operated together by their preachers, and likewise Eugene and
                    Pine Creek circuits in 1831, is it not possible that Carroll and 
                        Lafayette
                     circuits were also worked together? Otherwise, Enoch Wood must be supposed to have cut
                    across 
                        Lafayette
                     Circuit or have skirted it around and served other settlements.
            There are other facts to be considered. Rev. Horatio N. Ogden, who died on July 20, 1934, at the age
                    of ninety-four, had a splendid mind and a memory richly stored with Methodist traditions. He was
                    sure that 
                  Monticello, Prairie
                Church, Bunnell's, Pretty Prairie and 
                        Salem
                    
               4 (possibly other Classes too) belonged to the old 
                        Lafayette
                     Circuit. 
                        Salem
                     certainly did belong to 
                        Lafayette
                     Circuit, for it was built the summer before 
                        Monticello
                     Circuit was created. Likewise there were other Classes farther down the 
                        Wabash
                     River that once belonged to 
                        Crawfordsville
                     Circuit, namely: Sand Ridge, 
                        Van
                     Natta's, Holloway's, Boyer's, or Armstrong's,
                    Independence and probably Little's at Union also. These latter churches had been taken over
                    by Pine Creek Circuit in 1831. Admittedly 
                  
                     4 Not the town of 
                                
                                    Salem
                                
                             in 
                                Washington County
                            , but merely the name of a local church. The name was later changed to Cairo.
                  
               
                     the disappearance of the minutes of 
                        Lafayette
                     Circuit creates much difficulty. But traditions are numerous that Holliday served
                    several Classes on the north side of the 
                        Wabash
                     River and the tradition that Hargrave served 
                        Monticello
                     can have only one explanation; it was while he was pastor at 
                        Lafayette
                    . The tradition that the church at 
                        Monticello
                     was organized in 1833 now has reasonable and adequate justification. Vredenburg,
                    co-pastor with N. B. Griffith did organize the 
                        Monticello
                     Church and probably several others in that year.
            The new 
                        Monticello
                     Mission Circuit of 1836, with assortment of its Classes according to their origin, will
                    now be traced. Utmost pains in running down the location of family names, then used to designate
                        Classes,5 with care to avoid duplications, has enabled the writer to clear
                    up most of the difficulties. Establishing the dates of settlement of these families has strangely
                    confirmed the other conclusions and traditions.6
            
            I. From 
                        Lafayette
                     Circuit came the following Classes.
            
               
                  
                            Monticello
                        , with Worthington and Cougar Classes somewhat distinct.
               Nathaniel Bunnell's, at Asbury, near the present village of Reynolds.
               Best's, the 
                            Prairie
                         Church, near the present Brookston.
               Peleg Babcock's, at Pretty Prairie (later known as Rush's Class).
               
                  
                            Salem
                         Meeting-house, a predecessor of the present Cairo Church.
               Sand Ridge (known at different times as Huffman's, Reed's, Mount
                    Pleasant).
            
            II. From Iroquois (
                        Illinois
                    ) Circuit came the following:
            
               
                  
                            Rensselaer
                        .
               Gillam's, later known as Independence, and still later as Palestine, was this year
                        (1836) organized by Vredenburg in that territory. (In 1889 this 
                     
                        5 The term Class is used by Methodists to
                                designate a local group of organized church members whether having a church building and
                                pastor or not.
                     
                        6 The list of Classes following was compiled from the data
                                included in complex records covering a period of years. The writer's purpose is
                                to furnish information in simple form. Possibly there were a dozen other Classes not
                                designated, and there may be some duplications.
                  
                         Church was moved into the nearby town of Radnor).
               Barkley, known as Parkinson's, or Tanner's, was organized the next year in
                        the same territory.
            
            III. New appointments were the following:
            
               Rawl's School-house, later known as Mt. Zion, near Montmorenci.
               West Union school house, near the home of Dr. William Sims, which was near Battle Ground.
               Caster's, near West 
                            Lafayette
                        , organized in 1837.
               Pittsburg.
               Lockport (Emory's).
               Schultz, at Farmington, later known as Burnettsville.
               Cornell's and Williams' at 
                            Pike
                         Creek.
               Monong School-house, north of Guernsey.
               Metamonong, near Francesville.
               Davis Smith's at Spring Creek.
               James Spencer's, Big Creek, Chalmers.
               Morgan's.
               A. Buchanan's.
            
            A separate and continuous list of the ministers who have served 
                        Monticello
                     Circuit and 
                        Monticello
                     Church is presented here.
            With Lafayette Circuit: 1832, Richard Hargrave, Nehemiah B. Griffith; 1833, Nehemiah B. Griffith,
                    Hackaliah Vredenburg; 1834, William Clark, William Watson, Wesley Wood; 1835, Charles M. Holliday,
                    John Richey, Benjamin Griffith. With 
                        Monticello
                     Mission: 1836, Hackaliah Vredenburg; 1837, John H. Bruce; 1838, Enoch Wood; 1839,
                    Joshiah J. Cooper; 1840, Jacob Colclazer, Samuel Reed (serving as junior first quarter); 1841, Enoch
                    Wood, John Richey; 1842, Benjamin T. Griffith; 1843, John Edwards; 1844, Allen D. Beasley (six
                    months), George W. Warner (twelve months). With Monong Mission: 1845, Nathaniel S. Worden; 1846,
                    James W. Burns. With 
                        Monticello
                     Circuit: 1847, Samuel N. Campbell; 1848, Matthew Fenimore; 1849–1850, John
                    Leach; 1851, Robert H. Calvert; 1852, Lucas Nebeker; 1853–1854, Jacob Cozad;
                    1855–1856, Martin L. Green; 1857, Harvey S. Shaw; 1858, Thomas E. Webb; 1859, Andrew J.
                    Sheridan; 1860, B. Wilson Smith; 1861, Caleb B. Mock; 1862, Ferris  Pierce; 1863, Samuel M. Hays; 1864–1865, John H. Cissel; 1866, John L. Boyd; 1867,
                    Enoch Holdstock; 1868, John B. De Motte; 1869, John E. Newhouse; 1870–1871, David Holmes;
                    1872, James A. Clearwaters; 1873–1874, Henry C. Neal; 1875–1876, Oliver C.
                    Haskell; 1877, William G. Vessels; 1878–1879, Conrad S. Burgner; 1880, Thomas Mason;
                    1881–1883, James Johnson; 1884–1886, William Penn McKinsey;
                    1887–1888, Worley B. Slutz; 1889–1893, Charles A. Brooke;
                    1894–1895, Isaac Dale; 1896–1900, Albertus T. Briggs; 1901, Arthur H. De Long;
                    1902–1905, Samuel P. Colvin; 1906–1907, J. Montcalm Brown;
                    1908–1910, J. B. Rutter; 1912–1914, Henry L. Kindig; 1915–1916
                    Richard H. Crowder (one year and three months), F. L. Hovis (nine months); 1917–1919,
                    Frank L. Hovis; 1920–1921, Thomas J. Bassett (with T. J. Reder, last two months);
                    1922–1924, Clifford C. Jordan; 1925–1927, James G. Campbell;
                    1928–1933, Ulysses G. Leazenby.
            The original 
                        Monticello
                     Mission was divided in the fall of 1846, Newton and 
                        Jasper
                     counties, with a narrow slice from Western 
                        Pulaski
                     being made into Iroquois Mission. This Mission was continued the next year as 
                        Jasper
                     Mission and a year later as 
                        Rensselaer
                     Circuit. Iroquois Mission removed from 
                        Monticello
                     Circuit the following Classes: 
                        Rensselaer
                    , Barkley, Gillam's, and Metamonong and Knowland's; probably the
                    following Classes were added that year to Iroquois Mission: Iroquois, 
                        Salem
                    , State Line (Whiteman's), Sayler's, Bard's, Bowling Green,
                    Blue Grass, Mason's, Saltillo and Medaryville.
            Released from the vast territory to the northwest, 
                        Monticello
                     Mission seems to have reached into territory east and south more intensively.
                    Wilson's appears on the Circuit in 1840 as a new appointment. But in 1842 another excision
                    took place and Pittsburg Circuit was created, taking over the following Classes: Pittsburg,
                    Lockport, Burnettsville, 
                        Pike
                     Creek, Wilson's, a little later adding 
                        Georgetown
                    , Lake Cicot, Indian Creek (White Oak), Leazenby's.
            In 1845 another big division occurred, with the creation of Harrisonville Circuit, which included the
                    following; Harrisonville, 
                        Prairie
                     Church, Geneseo, Pretty Prairie, Spring Creek, 
                        Salem
                     Meeting House, Rawl's (at Mt. Zion), Denton's, Dr. William
                    Sim's, Caster's, Pretty Prairie, Little Pine (Montmorenci), Sand Ridge, and
                    Gay's school house. The name of  the 
                        Monticello
                     Mission Circuit was now changed to Monong Mission and included the following: 
                        Monticello
                    , Big Creek, Bunnell's, West Point, and Monong School-house. We do not have the
                    records for this period, but Dyer School-house, Sea-field and Wesley soon appear as added
                    appointments, as well as Norway and Patton.
            In 1847 
                        Monticello
                     Circuit became a permanent charge, rounding out a century in 1933. The 
                        Monticello
                     Church seems to have been regarded by some as a station receiving a minister's
                    full time and having morning and night preaching every Sunday from 1861; but to the
                    writer's knowledge the pastor served two churches outside in 1886, White Oak and Patton.
                    Since that time its pastors have actually given all their time to the 
                        Monticello
                     Church.
            It is fitting and necessary in a sketch like this to give some attention to several of the men who
                    have served during the century. Richard Hargrave was the greatest campmeeting preacher of his
                    generation. John H. Bruce, who followed Vredenburg, was a young man of outstanding ability as a
                    preacher and leader. A few years after his period at 
                        Monticello
                    , while serving a district, he went from a revival meeting out into the night and was
                    thrown from his horse. He was so seriously injured that he died. Enoch Wood served in Indiana for
                    many years, but finished his work in 
                        Iowa
                     many years later. Josiah J. Cooper rounded out his career in the North Indiana
                    Conference, a neighboring Conference (to the Northwest Conference) on the east. So also did Jacob
                    Colclazer, one of our great pioneer Methodist circuit riders. John Richey spent his last years at 
                        Logansport
                     and is buried there. He served only a few years and in an irregular way. Benjamin
                    Griffith served but a few years. John Edwards was an immigrant from 
                        Wales
                    . He was a very devoted and useful, though plain man, who gave a life of service to
                    Methodism, all on small circuits.
            Allen D. Beasley was an outstanding man of his generation, though he served but a few years on big
                    circuits. He retired to a farm near West Point, Indiana, where he died. His saintly wife died only a
                    few years ago at the home of Dr. George Beasley in 
                        Lafayette
                    . George W. Warner served but a few years, rose to prominence rapidly, and died young.
                    John Leach, who was pastor when the first 
                        Monticello
                     Church  was built was a very eccentric man. William
                    B. Rippetoe told me how he looked on one occasion, with a stove-pipe hat, holding his sun-umbrella
                    and wielding a palm-leaf fan. Nevertheless he had ability to preach and to lead, and rose above the
                    average. Robert H. Calvert was a man of ability, devotion and usefulness. Lucas Nebeker who was a
                    brother of Enos Nebeker (once Secretary of the Treasury of the 
                        United States
                    ), was a man of fine character and noble mind. He spent his last years at Battle Ground.
                    Martin L. Green was a Hendricks County product—a fine man who left a good record. Harvey
                    S. Shaw spent most of his life in 
                        Illinois
                    . Thomas E. Webb was a man of considerable austerity, stern morals, and intense and
                    radical devotion. In early life he was evangelistic. Andrew J. Sheridan was an Indiana Asbury
                    University product, devoted and able who died young, leaving a lovely wife and children to bless the
                    world. His son Wilbur F. Sheridan rose to great distinction in the ministry. Next to John Purdue,
                    Rev. B. Wilson Smith did more for Purdue University than any other man. He possessed great
                    intelligence, tact and eloquence. Caleb B. Mock was a man of unique personality, with hard sense and
                    noble principles. He was loved by many and did a large amount of good. Ferris Pierce was a plain,
                    devoted, lovable man. An old acquaintance told the writer that the whole life of the Rev. Pierce was
                    devoted to praying, preaching, and telling others of Christ. Samuel M. Hays was trained at Indiana
                    Asbury University. With a fine mind and fine education he combined a conscience and a love of people
                    that made him a power for good. John H. Cissel was one of the great Methodist preachers and
                    presiding elders of his time.
            John B. DeMotte was a scholar, a saint, a Christian gentleman, who lived a whole generation ahead of
                    his time. He gave to the world an illustrious son, Prof. John B. DeMotte, distinguished as a teacher
                    and on the lecture platform. David Holmes was at his best as an educator. James A. Clearwaters gave
                    over half a century to the Methodist ministry and also gave to our church one of its strong
                    ministers, the Rev. John F. Clearwaters. Henry C. Neal was a man of fine scholarship, an educator, a
                    fine preacher, and a Christian gentleman. Indiana Asbury University gave us Oliver C. Haskell, an
                    excellent man, highly respected and greatly loved.  William G.
                    Vessels had a princely intellect, was a brilliant preacher and distinguished editor. Burgner was a
                    man of hard sense and a hard worker. As a man of diligence, "He stood before
                    kings." James Johnson was much like him. Uncle Pete McKinsey, a product of Thorntown
                    Academy, with his devoted wife, had no superiors in devotion, accessibility and usefulness. He was a
                    pastor and evangelist. He was spiritually dynamic and socially inspiring. He made his hearers want
                    to be good. He made them try to be good.
            W. B. Slutz spent only a few years in the Northwest Indiana Conference, rose rapidly and transferred
                    to 
                        Ohio
                    , where he died a few years ago. Charles A. Brooke spent over half a century in the
                    ministry and had the highest position and honor among the ministers of the Conference. Isaac Dale
                    finished his career on 
                        South Bend
                     district. He was the son-in-law of John L. Smith. Albertus T. Briggs is now on the
                    retired list having served some of our best churches and twice served on districts. Arthur De Long
                    served some of our best churches but was transferred to 
                        Missouri
                     several years ago. Henry L. Kindig was one of our best men who served our best
                    churches. Richard Crowder is still serving, having for years past filled pulpits in some of our best
                    churches. Frank Hovis is a splendid pastor, a wonderful gentleman, a very useful minister. Dr.
                    Bassett first distinguished himself as principal of our Academy at DePauw University. He then served
                    several of our best churches. While serving his second year at 
                        Monticello
                    , he went to his long home. He was a great Christian and a great leader. Clifford C.
                    Jordan is a devoted, dependable, useful man. Dr. James G. Campbell is a scholar, a teacher, a master
                    of church-architecture, and a Christian business man. He has served some of our great churches. Dr.
                    U. G. Leazenby, taking him altogether, is the equal of any man who ever served in this Conference.
                    He served twelve years (two terms) as district superintendent and headed the Bunster Mission in
                    South America, the only self supporting. Methodist Mission in the world. With real preaching
                    ability, devotion to pastoral work, grasp of Church business and power to lead men, he combines with
                    all these the spirituality of an old mystic. Best of all, he grips men's hearts. When a
                    train hit him a few years ago, it seemed to drive him closer to the Rock of Ages and to the hearts
                    of all his brethren.
            
            Attention will now be turned to membership. In 1837, at the end of the first year of 
                        Monticello
                     Mission, the membership was reported to be 142, with twenty-one appointments. Two years
                    later, the membership mounted to 382. In 1841, a year after Iroquois Mission had been detached,
                    membership had climbed again to 492. In 1843, a year after Pittsburg Circuit had been detached, a
                    net loss of only fifty-four is shown. In 1850, when the first 
                        Monticello
                     Church had just been built, with five or six outside churches attached, the membership
                    (including sixty probationers) was 310. In 1862 the membership had declined fifty per cent. By 1865
                    it was only 75. These two reports undoubtedly indicate some results of the Civil War. John B.
                    DeMotte, who served 
                        Monticello
                     Circuit in 1868, left behind a diary. It indicates that 
                        Monticello
                     Circuit in that year was a very hard field for religious work. Brookston Circuit had
                    been formed several years before and Chalmers, 
                        Prairie
                     Church and West Point had been attached thereto; Monong had been attached to
                    Francesville and Medaryville. However, 
                        Monticello
                     Circuit, still retained Asbury, Reynolds, Norway, 
                        Pike
                     Creek and Wesley. By 1870 these outlying appointments were detached. By 1880 the
                    membership of the 
                        Monticello
                     Methodist Episcopal Church had crept up to 151. By 1885 it was 170, and by 1890 it was
                    330. The increase continued to be encouraging. In 1895 the membership was 345, in 1900 it was 416,
                    and in 1930 it was 632. The depression has caused only a moderate slump.
            Sunday School enrollment shows a gradual and steady growth since 1855. With two schools then, the
                    enrollment was 103; in 1860, with five schools reported, the enrollment was 220. In 1880, with the
                    one Church and one school, the enrollment was below 100; in 1885 it was 250 and the possibility of
                    building a new church was being agitated. In 1900 the enrollment was 240; in 1920 it was 376; it is
                    now (1933) 350. Because of the inclusion of Cradle Roll and Home Department enrollments in later
                    years, a comparison with former years can not be strictly made. Attendance has kept pace with
                    enrollment and made relative gains.
            Building and material equipment have attended the program of this church through the years. Beginning
                    in the Worthington and Cougar Classes, with the first public meeting in the Orwig Tavern, Methodists
                    still had church services  for years in homes and then in the
                    school house, which was open to all denominations. It was in 1849, with the coming of John Leach to 
                        Monticello
                     Circuit as pastor, that agitation for a church building was begun. The following year
                    the first Methodist Church was built and dedicated, at the corner of Main and 
                        Marion
                     streets, at a cost of $1,500. Revivals being frequent, the membership grew
                    and in 1887, following a great revival under the Rev. William P. McKinsey, the second church
                    building was erected four blocks south of the old site. It was dedicated on November 27, 1887, by
                    Chancellor Charles N. Sims, D.D., of 
                        Syracuse
                     University. The cost of this fine structure was $8,735.22, mostly provided
                    in advance by subscriptions and through the sale of the old building to the Disciples Church. All
                    indebtedness was met at the time of dedication.
            In 1917 a basement and one ground-floor room were added to the plant and in addition a steam-heating
                    system. The total cost of these improvements was $7,000. This was during the pastorate of
                    the Rev. Frank L. Hovis. Besides the material improvement, the year 1917 was marked by a gracious
                    revival accompanied by a considerable gain in membership. The bell of the old church still rings in
                    the tower of the present church-home. During the pastorate of the Rev. James G. Campbell, who
                    furnished the architectural designs, very radical and extensive changes were made in the church
                    edifice. Much additional room was provided, together with a splendid new arrangement of the interior
                    and outside features adding to the charm and beauty of the architecture. The cost was kept down, but
                    the church is now (1933) valued at $60,000.
            As in all statistical matters, the record of salaries paid to ministers has varied so with changing
                    conditions through the years, that it lacks value for comparison. From 1869 to 1882 the salary,
                    including house rent, was stationary at $700 per year. After that the salary climbed to
                    $1,000, and even reached $1,239 under Dr. Charles A. Brooke. During the five
                    years following his pastorate, it was $900 and house. J. M. Brown was paid
                    $1,000 and house; J. B. Rutter, $1,200 and house. With the coming of the Rev.
                    Frank Hovis there began a steady upgrade movement of salary—$1,400,
                    $1,500, $1,600, $1,800. With Dr. James G. Campbell the salary rose
                         to $2,000 and house. The depression has forced
                    the salary down somewhat, but this Church still holds its own in loyal support of the pastor.
            Benevolences have had their share in this Church's history. Since 1911, the total paid for
                    benevolences has never gone below $1,000 per year. In 1922 the total was
                    $3,300. Since the year 1902, the total given by this strong church for benevolences has
                    amounted to $51,158.
            The 
                        Monticello
                     Methodist Church was the eighth in world-wide Methodism to organize an 
                        Oxford
                     League, Chapter VIII of that organization being chartered in the fall of 1887. It was
                    succeeded in due course by the Epworth League, which is still an active force in the 
                        Monticello
                     Church. The Foreign and Home Missionary Societies of the Methodist women were also
                    early in the field, and rank among the strongest in the Conference. Mrs. Ida Cline, Conference
                    Secretary of the W. F. M. S. is one of the outstanding women of Methodism. G. A. Stephan of the 
                        Monticello
                     Church is one of the leading men in State Sunday School work. Only lack of space
                    forbids a large extension of this sketch and the mention of a really splendid group of men and women
                    among the laity of the 
                        Monticello
                     Church. A hundred years of Methodist history at 
                        Monticello
                     have well prepared the Church there to begin its race for another and a better Century
                    of Progress.
         
         
         
            The Unique Little Town of 
                        New Harmony
                    
            
            By JULIE LE CLERC KNOX
            
            
               
                        New Harmony
                     is interesting not only because of its unusual history, but also because of its present
                    day atmosphere and quaint old houses that look as if they were built to see the stars out. Its
                    founding was a sort of double-jointed communistic movement. First came the Rappites, stolid Germans,
                    with extremely practical notions of the meaning of life, and then the Owenites, with their
                    idealistic plans, their culture and their "Boat load of Knowledge." So this little
                    town enjoys the distinction of being the birthplace of two of the most widely known communistic
                    experiments ever tried out in the 
                        United States
                    .
            A German sect, whose leader was George Rapp, a peasant from Wurtemburg, came there in 1814, cleared
                    the land, built many of the sturdy old buildings still to be seen and lived there until 1824. The
                    Rappites named their settlement "Harmonie." They sold out to Robert Owen, a
                    renowned reformer and philanthropist from 
                        Scotland
                    , who associated with himself William McClure and other early men and women of
                    scientific and literary culture. In 1826 the town was rechristened "
                        New Harmony
                    ."
            At first sight the town seems to a "stranger within the gates" almost a deserted
                    village, though it has twelve hundred inhabitants, with nothing unusual to recommend it. However,
                    one soon falls under the spirit of the place and its charm grows. More than forty of the old Rappite
                    dwellings are still standing and when they have not been tampered with, they invariably have their
                    entrances turned modestly away from the street.
            Probably the most characteristic of the structures is the old fort and granary, with its heavy
                    sandstone walls, its loopholes and iron-barred windows. Next of interest in regard to its original
                    structure, is Rooming House Number 2, a large brick, bearing on its south wall the sun-dial that was
                    first placed on the Rappite Mansion House, and which was saved from destruction when that building
                    was burned in 1844.
            The wonderful old "Steeple House" was also destroyed but its lovely doorway with
                    fan-light, stone entrance, cherry doors and golden rose, surrounded by a wreath, and bearing  the date, 1822, adorns the west side of the school building that
                    now occupies the same site. The beautiful rose carving is the work of Frederick Rapp, adopted son of
                    the founder of the settlement. The labyrinth was also his idea but nothing remains of it save a sign
                    marking its site on the edge of the present town.
            Where the old Rappite Mansion House once stood, is now a one story building of grey stone, surrounded
                    by pillared verandas. It was erected by Alexander Maclure, prominent in the Owenite
                    régime. Prof. Richard Owen and David Dale Owen, sons of Robert Owen, both made it their
                    homes at different times. In the yard is the famous "Footprint Rock" which the
                    wily, old Rappite leader told his credulous followers showed the mark of the Angel
                    Gabriel's feet when he came to warn the people of the end of the world. This house is in
                    the same square as was once the old fort with which it is said to have been connected by an
                    underground passage, used by Rapp to mystify his disciples. It seems that he was an ingenious leader
                    who did not hesitate to stoop to guile when it suited his purposes.
            In the side yard, is the grave of Thomas Say which forms a large hump in the ground like a small
                    Indian Mound. It is a brick vault, in which were placed later the remains of Alexander Maclure, who
                    built it, and his two sisters. At first David Dale Owen was also buried in this tomb but his remains
                    were afterwards removed to Maple Hill. The marble monument on it was brought from 
                        New York
                     by way of 
                        New Orleans
                    , a slow and uncertain line of transit much used in early days. Thomas Say was one of
                    America's most distinguished scientists. His book on conchology, illustrated by the
                    water-color sketches of his wife, Lucy Sistaire, occupies a prominent place in the 
                        New Harmony
                     library.
            Next door to the Maclure residence is a strangely fantastic building, surmounted by a Dame-Trot cap
                    sort of a tower, erected by David Dale Owen in 1859, to house his geological and other specimens,
                    gathered during his work as 
                        United States
                     Geologist. It is said to have cost $10,000. Dr. Owen meant the building to
                    serve also for a laboratory, but he died the year after it was completed. A part of his collection
                    was sold to Indiana University for $30,000 and is housed in Owen Hall, named for him. The
                    remainder of it went to the  Smithsonian Institute in 
                        Washington
                    . The house was for a period the dwelling of the family of H. Pestalozzi Owen, son of
                    Richard Owen. Mr. H. P. Owen died in 1914.
            One of the most interesting of the houses of 
                        New Harmony
                     is the old Fauntleroy Home, now occupied by Miss Mary Fauntleroy, the heart and soul of 
                        New Harmony
                    . This ancient frame building is the birthplace of what is claimed to be the oldest
                    woman's club in America, with written constitution and bylaws. The document was drawn up by
                    Robert Dale Owen, uncle of the organizer, Miss Constance Fauntleroy. He was very much interested in
                    promoting the cause of women and he sponsored some of the more liberal of the early laws of the
                    state along that line. The original manuscript minutes of the club and the original copy of the
                    constitution are preserved in the old parlor where the "Minerva Club" held its
                    initial meeting. A descendant of this club, called "The Daughters of Minerva," was
                    founded in 1919 to carry on the ideals of the original.
            Aside from all this, the quaint, old domicile has a distinct charm of its own and would have, even it
                    had not been erected as far back as 1815 by the Rappites and if it had not been, at different times,
                    the home of each of the following distinguished persons: Thomas Say, a great naturalist and his
                    wife, a French artist; Robert Fauntleroy, astronomer and meteorologist in government employ and his
                    wife, Jane Dale Owen, daughter of Robert Owen; Prof. George Davidson, eminent scientist and Ellinor
                    Fauntleroy, his wife; Dr. David Dale Owen, our first 
                        United States
                     Geologist and his wife, Caroline Neef; Robert Dale Owen, statesman, author, lecturer
                    and diplomat, and Mary Jane Robinson, his wife. Seven of these came to 
                        New Harmony
                     with the "Boat load of Knowledge" in 1826. It has been said by an
                    eminent historian that if these different persons had lived in the east, and had occupied different
                    houses there would have been a shrine for every one of them. This Fauntleroy house, so often honored
                    as a home, was one of the forty-three erected by the Rappites, all built on the same architectural
                    plan and measurements. The heart of the place seems to be a large hall sitting-room with glass doors
                    at both ends. There is a wonderful old rosewood, James Stuart, grandfather clock with brass face, a
                    dog table and quaint old couch and chairs. On each side of the 
                    south door are old walnut cabinets built in the walls by David Dale Owen to display his geological
                    specimens.
            The parlor where the Minerva Club was born, is entered from the hall through three folding doors.
                    This room could well sit for the picture of the typical parlor of one hundred years ago. The
                    original walnut mantel, and large fire-place of hand-made brick, burnt mussel shells and sand, are
                    still preserved. There are brass andirons, fender and kettle, all heirlooms. A mahogany pier-table
                    with mirror, is more than one hundred and twenty-five years old. A handsome pair of divans, rose
                    patterned chairs, an old rosewood, hand-carved piano, and priceless bric-a-brac (pottery, Wedgewood,
                    and Bohemian glass) grace this dignified but homey old part of the house.
            In these inspiring surroundings those thirteen cultured young women laid the foundation for the
                    intellectual expansion of American women. Some were of the families of the early scientists and
                    literati. Some had been educated abroad or at least had traveled abroad. Three had been presented at
                    the Italian court. All were eminently fitted for this undertaking, far reaching in its influence.
            The library, a small but intriguing room adjoins the parlor. The handsome old bookcase contains many
                    volumes and some two hundred pieces of music, autographed by the authors. Portraits of the eminent
                    people who lived in the dwelling house at various times, line the walls. A swivel-chair and library
                    table, once the property of Robert Dale Owen, attract attention. But the piece de
                        resistance is the Sheraton mahogany secretary, known to be one hundred and thirty-four
                    years old. On its hospitable drop-leaf is the guest-book inscribed with many distinguished names.
                    There are many names from many states of our own country, but also names from other lands.
            The antique hand-carved side-board, silver and china and quaint old center-table of the dining room,
                    invite you to pause and reverently think of the intellectuals who gathered there in times past.
            A colonial stair, patterned after that of ancestral 
                        Virginia
                    , leads to several upper bed-rooms. The one most filled with the spirit of the past is
                    at the northeast. A four-poster of walnut, a secretary of the same wood, hand made by Josiah 
                    
                        Warren
                    , a half-round table, the work of Robert Fauntleroy, a chest of drawers, once in the
                    family of Joseph Neef, and a mirror three hundred years old brought over from 
                        England
                    , in 1830, pique the fancy and charm the eye.
            The old Fauntleroy Home stands as a monument to the sturdy Rappites, who builded better than they
                    knew, as well as to the culture of the Owenites and to the pioneer women who, in organizing their
                    Minerva Club, helped to blaze the intellectual trail. It owes much of its charm now to Miss
                    Fauntleroy, who dispenses hospitality in her own inimitable way and pervades the place with the
                    magnetism of her personality. Since 1919 the Indiana Federation of Clubs has owned this place and
                    maintained it as a shrine.
            Just a step away is the ancient Rappite cemetery. It occupies about two acres and is surrounded by a
                    brick wall, one foot thick and five feet high, with heavy limestone coping and iron gates. The
                    bricks of the old church were used for this when it was pulled down. Some Indian mounds within the
                    enclosure show that this spot was sacred to the dead back in the time of the Redman's
                    occupancy. There are no markers, as the ground was always leveled immediately after burial and one
                    has a sort of eerie feeling and hesitates to step inside fearing to walk over the dead.
            The Library of the Workingman's Institute is a monument to the benevolent and far reaching
                    plans of William Maclure to provide free education for the masses, and also to Dr. Murphy who
                    came' to 
                        New Harmony
                     as a little, bare-foot Irish lad, and who, in gratitude for the kindly treatment he
                    received there, lavished on the village, the wealth, he, in later years accumulated. The fine new
                    auditorium next door was erected through his generosity and an annual lecture is given there through
                    funds left by him for that purpose. A park of seven acres was also donated by him. On the upper
                    floor of this Library is an art gallery, containing a number of so called
                    "originals" brought from over seas by Dr. Murphy. There is also a museum with
                    countless glass cases filled with all manner of shells, and all sorts of specimens. In the center of
                    the room is the funny old fire engine brought by George Rapp from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in 1814. A smaller room down stairs is filled with Rappite relics—old
                    furniture which they used and samples of things made by them. (They seem to have produced  everything needed in the community). They were spinners and they were
                    weavers. They braided and they built. As a final note there is a gruesome, old Rappite coffin,
                    standing on end, like the ones that Tam O'Shanter saw in Alloway Kirk, and one is almost
                    beguiled into feeling that a second look would reveal a grim old Rappite ghost within, holding in
                    his "cauld hand a light."
            One room contains nothing but books about 
                        New Harmony
                    . In this there is what appears to be a bandbox, but which the librarian explains was an
                    infant's coffin. An early settler, fearing her sick baby would die on the way over the
                    ocean, fore-handedly provided herself with this camouflaged little casket for an emergency that
                    fortunately did not occur. One can but wonder if she hoped to fool the sharks or the ship's
                    officers. The Library is said to contain 24,000 volumes. Madame Fretageot, the librarian, a
                    descendant of the pioneer of 
                        New Harmony
                     by that name, was most courteous. In fact the entire town seems to feel itself host to
                    a visitor. One of the twenty-six members of the Workingman's Club, organized on the plan of
                    John Ruskin, constituted himself a guide to the writer and showed her about, telling bits of history
                    that fitted in here and there.
            One naturally stayed over night at the old Tavern, one of the original Rappite houses. It has the
                    characteristic double stair, like those found in Shakertown, and a flavor of quaintness that must be
                    seen to be thoroughly understood. As far as could be seen this hostelry was a strictly one-man
                    affair, that is, one person appeared to constitute in himself, proprietor, clerk, cook, waiter,
                    bell-hop, host, and whatnot. He carried it all off with efficiency and ease. An extremely
                    interesting personality, he said that he was born in 
                        Ireland
                    , spoke several languages, had traveled in far countries with Hagenback's
                    Animal Show, and fought in the World War. His versatility was proved by his facility as factotum of
                    the Tavern and one wondered if "Mine Host of the Tabard Inn" were not a similar
                        personage.1
            
            No descendants of the Owens were found, and one heard none spoken of as among the present residents.
                    We heard that as late as 1924 a Mrs. Neal, one of the family, had occupied 
                  
                     1 To the immense regret of the writer, she was too early in the season
                            to see the "gate trees" in bloom. They are from the Orient and were
                            brought from their native habitat by William Maclure and planted at the gateway of his
                            residence. Hence the name "gate trees" instead of the unpronounceable
                            botanical term.
               
                     the house, built as a laboratory by David Dale Owen. Rosamond
                    Dale Owen, a strange personality, with a strange career, who has written much that is strange, is
                    the daughter of Robert Dale Owen. She lived at Haifi, in Syria, many years and related her
                    adventures there in her book, My Perilous Experiences in Palestine. She claims
                    that she once owned Armageddon. Miss Fauntleroy spoke of hearing from this representative of the
                    Owen family. In speaking of Prof. George Davidson, famous occupant of the Fauntleroy Home at one
                    time, and for whom Mt. Davidson on the western coast is named, Miss Fauntleroy told what a thrill
                    she had enjoyed, sitting in the room, once his library, listening-in to an Easter service, at the
                    foot of the Cross on this mountain, far away.
            Stories about 
                        New Harmony
                    , Seth Way, The Beckoning Road and The Town of the
                        Fearless, are intriguing tales of this unique settlement from the pen of Caroline Dale Owen
                    Snedeker, great-granddaughter of Robert Owen. This family of the Scotch philanthropist, by some
                    historians, said to have originated in 
                        Wales
                    , has proved to be especially gifted and unusual, and America is much indebted to it for
                    the dissemination of culture in early pioneer days.2
            
            
               
                  2 Some of these old buildings appear to have a strange sinking in the
                        knees, as if, too feeble to stand up any longer, they were gradually slipping down into their
                        graves. The ancient pest-house is a particularly pathetic barracks-like structure, shut up and
                        empty, like an old, old person whose usefulness is long since a thing of the past. If it could
                        but speak, no doubt it could tell tragic tales of sickness and sufferings patiently borne and
                        death bravely met. It was with real regret that the writer left this little town, living in its
                        old time traditions, and fascinating quaintness, with plenty of time to play the courteous host
                        to all comers.
            
         
         
         
            Lincoln's Visit to 
                        Terre Haute
                    
            
            By MAX EHRMANN
            
            It is of interest that Abraham Lincoln was once a visitor in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and a guest at the 
                        Prairie
                     House, a pioneer hotel that stood on the same site (
                        Wabash
                     Avenue and Seventh Street) now occupied by the 
                        Terre Haute
                     House.1 I have always believed the story as I was told that it was
                    true by acquaintances and friends, but I could not find sufficient evidence to prove it until
                    recently. Among those who told me of the visit were Thomas H. Nelson, William E. McClain and William
                    Fairbanks, all of them colonels in the Civil War. Colonel Nelson was appointed Minister to Chili by
                    President Lincoln and later became Minister to Mexico. Colonel McClain became Deputy Commissioner of
                    Pensions under President Cleveland. Colonel Fairbanks, a much beloved man and brother of Crawford
                    Fairbanks, moved to Joplin, 
                        Missouri
                    , where he became a man of affairs just as his brother did in 
                        Terre Haute
                    .
            I lived at the old 
                        Terre Haute
                     House which replaced the 
                        Prairie
                     House, with these three men. The building and site of the 
                        Prairie
                     House were owned by Chauncey Rose, another of 
                        Terre Haute
                    's beloved philanthropists. The 
                        Prairie
                     House was regarded as almost out in the country, and the proprietors of the hostelry
                    ran a bus from what is now the court-house square (south of 
                        Wabash
                     Avenue, between Third and Second) which was then the stage-coach stopping place and
                    center of early 
                        Terre Haute
                     business activities.
            But to return to Lincoln's visit, the following passage is found in Lincoln the
                        Man, by Edgar Lee Masters: "He [Lincoln] believed in the mad stone; and one of his
                    sisters-in-law related that Lincoln took one of his boys to 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, to have the stone applied to a wound inflicted by a dog on the
                        boy."2 The discovery of this information, based on the statement of
                    a sister of Mrs. Lincoln, delighted me because it agreed with what Colonels Nelson, McClain, and
                    Fairbanks had all told me when they related that they had heard of Mr. Lincoln's visit to 
                        Terre Haute
                     and that he was a guest at the 
                        Prairie
                     House.
            
               
                  1 On the basis of an interview with the author, the substance of what
                        appears in this article was written up by Mr. Curtis O. Bridwell and appeared in the 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Sunday Tribune-Star of December 8, 1935.
               
                  2 Masters, Lincoln the Man (
                            New York
                        , 1931), 148.
            
            
            I have never been able to discover who owned the mad-stone. It was a woman, so the story runs. The
                    belief was most general at the time that this stone would heal and prevent madness whenever a person
                    had been bitten by a mad-dog. As a matter of fact it did cure bites, not by the magical qualities
                    with which rumor had endowed it, but to my way of thinking because it was a porous stone. When
                    placed on a wound it would by capillary attraction draw out the moisture, blood, and probably the
                    poison.
            By the way, there is another Lincoln incident that is recorded in history which shows that he went
                    through 
                        Terre Haute
                     in the spring of 1849. This involves Col. Thomas H. Nelson, one of the three colonels
                    already mentioned. The incident is related in Herndon's Life of Lincoln,
                    the author, William Herndon, being aided by a newspaper man of 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana, Jesse W. Weik, in the preparation of the manuscript for the publisher.
                    Referring to this work, one finds that Colonel Nelson and Judge Abram Hammond (later Governor of
                    Indiana) arranged to go from 
                        Terre Haute
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     by stage. As they climbed on the stage, but let's quote from the
                    book—Nelson is giving the description:
                        By daybreak the stage had arrived in 
                                Terre Haute
                             from the west, and as we stepped in we discovered that the entire back seat was
                            occupied by a long, lank individual, whose head seemed to protrude from one end of the coach
                            and his feet from the other. He was the sole occupant, and was sleeping soundly. 
                                Hammond
                             slapped him familiarly on the shoulder and asked him if he had chartered the
                            stage for the day. The stranger, now wide awake, responded, "Certainly
                            not," and at once took the front seat, politely surrendering to us the place of
                            honor and comfort. We took in our travelling companion at a glance. A queer odd looking
                            fellow he was, dressed in a well worn and ill-fitting suit of bombazine, without vest or
                            cravat, and a twenty-five cent palm hat on the back of his head. His very prominent features
                            in repose seemed dull and expressionless….3
                  
                    Upon arrival in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Colonel Nelson and Judge Hammond found that the man was Abraham Lincoln, center of
                    attraction at the meeting they had gone to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to attend. The three men afterwards became staunch friends.
            The story that Mr. Lincoln visited 
                        Terre Haute
                     in order that the mad-stone might be applied to his son's wound and that he
                    stopped at the 
                        Prairie
                     House is surely authentic. Mr. Lincoln has often been credited with the characteristic
                    of being 
                  
                     3 Herndon's Lincoln (
                                Springfield
                            , 1888, reprint of 1921), II, 803–304.
               
                     more or less superstitious, and this story seems to bear out
                    that view of him.4 Some advanced college student may well do a piece of research
                    on this question.
            
               
                  4 The belief in the efficacy of the mad-stone was wide spread. The effects
                        of the bite of a mad-dog were so serious, that any father, in that period, whether superstitious
                        or not, might well be excused for resorting to the use of the mad-stone in the hope of saving a
                        beloved son from rabies.
            
         
         
         
            History Teachers' Forum
            VALUES IN THE STUDY OF CURRENT EVENTS
            By OKA STANTON FLICK
            
            The valid reasons for teaching current events in the schools seem to be three in number: as a device
                    for motivating study and arousing interest; as a means for increasing civic and social intelligence;
                    and as a method of giving training in problem-solving as regards social matters. A discussion of
                    each of these in the order named follows.
            Two of the besetting difficulties in Social Studies instruction, especially history, in the schools
                    are: the conception of Social Studies material as being of a static, as contrasted with a dynamic,
                    nature; and the over-formalism into which the work usually lapses. The teaching of current events
                    tends powerfully to minimize both of these. There is a strong undercurrent of feeling among many
                    students that history is dead, that th & events with which it deals have happened long ago
                    and that is the end of it. The study of current events enables students to see that there are social
                    matters with which man must struggle today as he has struggled in the past. They can see the same
                    effort for improvement, the same trial and error, the same nobility here and baseness there that
                    their study of history reveals. This helps to make historical study alive and meaningful to the
                    present generation.
            Then again this same finality of tone which historical study is likely to assume causes
                    over-formalism in class work. Teachers often contribute to this condition by using the same methods
                    over and over. Students also promote it by the handing down of books from older to younger members
                    of the family and by the growth of a body of historical knowledge, which, although valid enough in
                    itself, becomes traditional and, by being uninterpreted, sterile. Examples of this which may be
                    cited are the discovery of America and Paul Revere's ride. Current events study lends to
                    both teacher and student a freshness of viewpoint and an exploring attitude which work wonders with
                    classes.
            In addition to all this, current events study increases social intelligence. Current happenings form
                    the last chapter in history—"the end of life for which the first was
                    made." Historical study is meant to give a third dimension, the depth  of time, to social knowledge. It is meant to show that human affairs
                    are in the eternal process of becoming, that nothing is constant but change. What then is the point
                    to the study of history if it leaves off at a time so remote from today that its problems have all
                    been solved or have ceased to be problems at all? Social intelligence begins when students see that
                    the conditions in the world about them are the end-points of historical change. These conditions are
                    then meaningful because they are the results of development involving people long dead and places
                    far away. The study of current events contributes to this appreciation of the continuity of past and
                    present.
            Lastly, current events study gives training in the solving of social problems. Individual life and
                    social life are alike full of problems which cry for solution. In current events the student sees
                    the accumulated wisdom of the ages being brought to bear upon present day problems. He sees the
                    usefulness of studies about which he was skeptical before. He appreciates the unity of social life.
                    Even if the problems which he studies now do not turn out to be the problems of his maturer
                    years—and in many cases this will be true—still he will have a chance to view
                    the technique of social direction, the manipulation of social affairs, in the light of established
                    laws of social behavior. He gains in positive ability as a citizen by the possession of this
                    knowledge.
            To summarize, then, the study of current events furnishes an important motivating force in social
                    studies instruction, arouses interest, enhances social intelligence, teaches the technique of social
                    adjustment, and contributes therefore, in all these ways to the acquisition of traits of good
                    citizenship —a high goal of modern instruction.
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            The report of Glenn A. Black, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , upon the excavation of the Nowlin Mound, in 
                        Dearborn
                     County, during the summers of 1934 and 1935, will be published as a regular number of
                    the Indiana History Bulletin probably within the next few months. This mound is of
                    interest chiefly for the manner of its construction (a series of mounds merged into one), and for
                    the light it throws upon the burial customs of the Indians who erected these mounds. Mr. Black was
                    able by careful excavation and scientific observation to decipher most convincingly the entire
                    history of the mound from the time it was begun until he started his excavation. Unfortunately,
                    however, no chronological data could be even inferred other than the sequence of the mounds.
            Mr. Black and E. Y. Guernsey, of 
                        Bedford
                    , have been conducting archaeological field work for the Indiana Historical Society and
                    are continuing their work in the year 1936. Mr. Guernsey for the past two year has been making a
                    historical-archaeological survey of 
                        Clark County
                    , the results of which are to be included in a report to be published later, either by
                    the Society or by the Historical Bureau. 
                        Clark County
                    , one of the oldest counties of the state, is also one of the most interesting
                    archaeologically. Mr. Guernsey has found and explored a number of important village sites and has
                    excavated several sites. His work of locating and describing the historical and archaeological
                    remains will be a distinct contribution to the much-needed history of the county.
            R. B. Yule, of the Indiana State Highway Department, chairman of the Committee of the Society on
                    Covered Timber Bridges, has gotten into communication with the county surveyors throughout the
                    state, and, through them, is collecting what promises to be a complete list of existing covered
                    timber bridges in the state. A large body of data also is being gathered about these and earlier
                    bridges of the state. It is the hope of the Society that the most important and distinctive of the
                    covered timber bridges may be preserved in all sections of the state.
            
            The Committee on Early Mills, under the chairmanship of Denzil Doggett, of the State Department of
                    Conservation, is also active. Records of scores of mills, most of them no longer in existence, are
                    being filed in the William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Society in the State Library and
                    Historical Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In many cases, pictures have been either obtained or reproduced and put on file. The
                    county historical societies have been cooperating in the work very effectively. In the course of
                    time, the Society hopes to have material for an authoritative history of this most important of the
                    industrial and agricultural developments.
            The Proceedings of the Indiana History Conference of last December have been published as the
                    February number of the Indiana History Bulletin.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            LINCOLN AND ANN RUTLEDGE
            Letter of R. J. Onstott
            The letter of R. J. Onstott which is reprinted below may or may not throw light on the question of
                    Lincoln's love affair with Ann Rutledge. It is presented here for what it may be worth. It
                    is undoubtedly a genuine letter written by a man who was born at 
                        New Salem
                    , and it is quite evident that the writer was convinced in his own mind that there had
                    been no love affair between Ann Rutledge and Abraham Lincoln. The letter came into the hands of the
                    editor of the 
                        Athens
                     (
                        Illinois
                    ) Free Press who published it in that newspaper on April 5, 1935. The
                    letter is prefaced by the following statement: 
                        We are in receipt of an old letter written by R. J. Onstott of 
                                Mason City
                             [
                                Illinois
                            ] to the late R. Y. Kincaid. There is no date on the letter, but judging from
                            the condition of the paper on which the letter is written it is quite old. This letter is
                            furnished us by A. S. Kincaid and was found among the household effects of the late Mrs. R.
                            Y. Kincaid.
                    
            
            Internal evidence reveals that the date of the letter was some time after the publication of the
                    two-volume life of Lincoln by Herndon and Weik, which replaced the suppressed edition of 1888. The
                    expurgated edition came out in 1892. It is safe to say that the letter was written a few years after
                    that date. Since the writer was born in 1830, he must have been somewhere near the age of sixty-five
                    when he wrote the letter.
            A copy of the 
                        Athens
                    
                    Free Press of April 5, 1935, was sent to the Indiana Magazine of
                        History by Prof. Lawrence Hurst of Ball State Teacher's College, accompanied by a
                    letter from Mr. W. E. Wilkins, editor of the Free Press, who stated that he had
                    copied the letter from the original.
            [THE LETTER]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Mr. R. Y. Kincaid,
                        
                           
                              Athens, Ills
                           .
                        Dear Sir: Through Mr. Kincaid, 
                                        Mason City
                                    , I learn you have the "Life of Abraham Lincoln,"
                                    written by William Herr1 [I] order the 
                              
                                 1 Why Mr. Onstott wrote Herr for Herndon, cannot be explained. He must have been well
                                            acquainted with the correct spelling of William Herndon's name. The
                                            error must have been a slip of the pen due to his mind running on to the
                                            last letter in the next word order. He also left out the
                                            subject of the sentence immediately following, which subject should have
                                            preceded the word order.
                              
                           
                                     first edition not the revised edition as I have
                                    that in two volumes. I mean the first edition if you have it. I should like so much
                                    to see and read it.
                        I suppose you know who I am, R. J. Onstott, born at 
                                        New Salem
                                     December 6, 1830. That was before Abraham Lincoln came down the
                                    Sangamon River with Offit [Denton Offut] on the flat boat on their trip to 
                                        New Orleans
                                    .
                        I know the publishers destroyed all the first edition if they could get hold of it. I
                                    know there is not anything in the first edition about the story of Ann Rutledge,
                                    Abe's sweetheart.2 There could not be, for my father,
                                    Henry Onstott, bought the tavern of James Rutledge 1833, and James Rutledge moved
                                    down to Concord, 4 miles north of 
                                        New Salem
                                     and the Rutledges did not live there after that. So the story is a lie
                                    out of whole cloth.
                        It is to refute these lies that I want to get this first edition. I remember very
                                    well when Ann Rutledge died. My father went to see her and the family about two
                                    weeks before she died. I know Lincoln did go to see her once and at her request as
                                    did others, but he did not go to her funeral.
                        The 
                                        Salem
                                     Chautauqua got me to plot 
                                        New Salem
                                     and publish it to preserve it and I will send you copy of it and ask
                                    you to accept. Have it framed.
                        I was not a soldier on account of being ruptured, lifting on a Lincoln pole at
                                    Havana, 
                                        Ills
                                    , in 1860. Ran as a mail agent from 
                                        Pekin
                                     to 
                                        Virginia
                                    
                           3 every day until 1863.
                        I am the only one now living of the 9 who originated and organized the Union League
                                    at 
                              Pekin, Illinois
                           , in 1862. I have now in my safe, all
                                    the ritual and workings of the League which I shall soon publish.
                        Let me hear from you soon.
                        
                                    Very Resp.
                                    R. J. Onstott (Snowbird).
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
            VIEWS OF ELISHA EMBREE, 1835
            Elisha Embree was born in Lincoln County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , on September 28, 1801. When he was about ten years of age, his father, Joshua Embree,
                    came to 
                        Gibson County
                    , Indiana, settling near the site of the present city of 
                        Princeton
                    . He obtained his pre-law education through his own efforts, acquiring almost all of it
                    outside of the school-room. He read law in the office of a local judge. He was elected to the Senate
                    of Indiana 
                  
                     2 Mr. Onstott had not seen the original edition, and he was
                            misinformed about the contents. Possibly he merely stated what he hoped would be found to be
                            true in regard to the story of Ann Rutledge not being included. The sixth chapter of the
                            first volume of the original edition, like the same chapter in volume one of the revised
                            edition, deals with the love affair of Lincoln and Ann.
                  
                     3
                            
                        Pekin, Illinois
                     , to 
                        Virginia, Illinois
                     . 
                                Pekin
                             is the county seat of Tazewell County. It is on the 
                                Illinois
                             River about eleven miles south of Peoria. 
                                Virginia
                             is the county seat of Case County, about fifty-five miles southwest of 
                                Pekin
                             and about thirty miles west of 
                                Springfield
                            .
               
                     in 1833 and again in 1834. In 1835, the Legislature elected him
                    to fill the post vacated by the resignation of Judge Samuel Hall, under whom he had read law. In
                    all, Mr. Embree served ten years as judge of the fourth judicial district of Indiana. In 1847 Judge
                    Embree was elected to the national House of Representatives on the Whig ticket, defeating Robert
                    Dale Owen. During his only term in Congress he was a colleague of Abraham Lincoln, who was likewise
                    a Whig serving but one term. The Whigs made Embree their candidate for Governor in 1849, but he was
                    defeated by the Democratic candidate, Joseph A. Wright.
            It was while Mr. Embree was serving as State Senator that the Whig party, of which he became a
                    prominent leader in Indiana, was born. Both the Democrats and Whigs of Indiana were divided on the
                    internal improvements question which became the paramount issue of the years from 1834 to 1837. Mr.
                    Embree was opposed to the scheme to construct a great system of internal improvements in the state
                    on borrowed capital. While there were many citizens in both parties who agreed with Mr. Embree, the
                    sentiment for the policy was growing in many parts of the state. The result was the
                    "Mammoth Bill" which was passed in 1836. It was probably because of this growing
                    sentiment for internal improvements, strong among Whigs in the counties that Mr. Embree had
                    represented in the state Senate, which caused the address here published to be withheld from the
                    press by the writer. The manuscript is endorsed—"1835 circular written but not
                    published." It is not presented here because of the influence exerted by it, but because it
                    represents the views of an honest and careful public servant. Mis-spelled words are printed as they
                    were in the original. The document was furnished by Miss Louise Embree of 
                        Princeton
                    , Indiana, through Dr. Christopher B. Coleman. Elisha Embree, author of the
                    "address" was the great-grandfather of Miss Embree.
            [THE ADDRESS]
            
                    To the citizens of Dubois Pike & Gibson
                    The legislature having closed the two sessions to which by your kindness I have been elected, I
                        with much pleasure proceed to give you a short statement of some of the most important subjects
                        acted upon during that time The establishing of a State Bank upon borrowed capital is a feature
                        of our legislation which is calculated to make a strong impression either for or against our
                        future prosperity but it is  to be hoped that the officers of
                        this institution may act in such a manner as to make it a blessing instead of a curse to the
                        State Although I did not give my vote for the establishment of this Bank yet I believe that
                        every good citizen ought now to endeavour to sustain its credit and thereby create a good
                        circulating medium and make the capital which the state has borrowed and vested in that
                        institution as proffitable as possible so that it may discharge the interest & finally
                        the principle on the money loaned
                    I had the pleasure of bringing forward and assisting in sustaining a measure that gave each of
                        the above named counties &c Six hundred dollars to be paid out of the three percent fund
                        and to be applied by the board doing county business to internal improvements—there
                        is now in the hands of the treasurer of State the sums of $119 for each of these
                        counties and it is expected that the greater part of the balance of the $600 will be
                        ready to be drawn by the first of July next
                    Upon the subject of the public lands I took the same stand in the legislature and advanced the
                        same views that I advocated before the people At the first session a resolution was adopted
                        requesting a graduated reduction of the price of these lands where the same has been a
                        reasonable time in market, and for an ultimate donation of the residue remaining unsold under
                        such rules & restrictions as will afford a suitable protection and incouragement to
                        actual settlers & prevent monopoly by land speculators—This subject is now
                        before congress and it is hoped & believed that some thing will be done greatly to
                        advance the interest of the west
                    The House of Eepresentatives in both of the past sessions passed bills changing our present mode
                        of taxation into an advalorem system, this circumstance and the fact that the legislature every
                        year spends thousands of dollars in legislating on this subject made me investigate it with the
                        closest attention—I weighed the relative situations of the different parts of the
                        state as well as the different classes of Society and finally came to the conclusion that the
                        district which I had the honor to represent in the Senate would not be injured by passing a bill
                        allowing it to take effect one year after its passage so that if the people should not be
                        satisfied with its provisions they could easily instruct their representation before it went
                        into operation—this at least will bring the subject before the people and I hope will
                        be the means of settling the question so that so much time and money will not hereafter be
                        annually spent by legislating on it
                    During the present winter a system of extravagant internal improvements was urged upon the
                        legislature which was calculated to involve the state in debt more than ten millions of dollars,
                        the annual interest on which would be about twelve times our present states taxation the people
                        could not and would not indure such a tax and therefore the greater part of this interest would
                        have to be every year added to this enormous principle until the debt would overwhelm and force
                        this young but flourishing state in a downhill cariar [career] from which it could  scarcely ever recover—It would create a dispair and ruin
                        amongst the people for the benefit of a few who might be employed to squander this money and
                        those who would reside immediately adjoining the routs of these improvements—The old
                        pioneers of this country who have spent their better days in subduing the forest as well as the
                        public enemy would be driven from among us to find an abode with more prudent
                        politiceans—and the floods of emigration which is now crowding some parts of this
                        state would pass us by with the same loathsome feelings which occupies the breasts of those who
                        pass the stake which in 
                            England
                         tells where the self murderer or suicide lies When it was ascertained that there
                        was a small majority in the legislature against engageing at present into internal improvements
                        so extensively as desired by the friends of the different projects a bill was introduced and
                        passed for borrowing upwards of two hundred thousand dollars for the 
                            Wabash
                         & Erie canal and for the surveys and estimates of the costs of
                    These surveys and estimates may not be matters of much consequence unless they should operate as
                        a spur to the already extravagant views & pretentions of many of our politiceans and
                        finally be the means of involving the people and pledging their heads and property for the
                        payments of debts which would bury all their future prospects in the vortex of ruin. The passage
                        of laws for the borrowing of some millions of dollars for the Bank and canal having been
                        received by the people without much complaint has created a mania for money borrowing the
                        effects of which will not be immedeately felt, because sufficient is always procured to pay the
                        interest and in that way we will be saved from taxation as long perhaps as our credit will
                        remain good—but it must finally fall upon us with redoubled vengance In giving my
                        feeble aid to check the footsteps of political extravagance which in our opinion was not
                        calculated to improve but impoverish the country I had the pleasure of contending on the same
                        side with your other representatives
                    It is however for the people in the south western part of the state to say whether their
                        representatives shall act upon the same economical principles on this subject as heretofore and
                        thereby risk being plunged into debt by combinations from other & stronger parts of the
                        state without our sharing in the least in the proffets—or whether they should unite
                        themselves with the prudent internal improvement members in commencing a moderate and gradual
                        system of internal improvements which will reach our own as well as other parts of the
                        state—that the state will be involved in extensive works of this kind is beyond all
                        doubt unless the people take this subject up and checks the extravegant notions &
                        measures which too generally prevails in the legislature —My own individual opinion
                        is that it is too early for the state now to engage in enxtensive works of this kind
                    At an early part the last session of the legislature on my application a resolution was refered
                        to the judiciary committee instructing them to enquire into the expediency of appointing some
                        competent persons as law commissioners to select from the mass of the common and statute laws
                        all the general principles which are in force in this state 
                        and arrange them under their proper titles in an alphabetical form into one system This subject
                        was before that committee for some weeks during which time on several occasions it was discussed
                        on both sides but inconsequence of the committee being equally divided upon it no report could
                        regularly be made either for or against it—finding this to be the case I presented a
                        bill to the senate providing for the appointment of the Judges of the Supreme Court to perform
                        this duty—They hold but two terms in the year and therefore might employ much of
                        their time in this business. This bill like many others was kept back by the press of other
                        matters until it was too late to have a definite action upon it bat it will come up amongst the
                        unfinished business at the next session and I hope will receive the sanction of the legislature
                    The law is a science composed of a certain number of rules which may be reduced to one regular
                        system, but as it now exists these rules are dark[en]ed and obscured by a mass of dross that
                        renders it difficult even for those who are able to procure the books to acquire a knowledge of
                        them—By one section of our statutes we have adopted the common law of 
                            England
                         and all the statutes of the British Parliament made in aid of the common law prior
                        to the 4th year of King James first which are of a general nature and not local to that Kingdom
                        with a few exceptions; and it has been said by the best law writers that these laws are not to
                        be found in less than five hundred volumes—this circumstance alone is sufficient to
                        account for their uncertainty and want of authority—There are a number of reasons why
                        the laws are so voluminous & uncertain; I shall however mention a few of them
                        here—1st by adopting the statutes of Great Britain we have adopted laws enacted
                        through more than 500 years of legislation and it is difficult to say what laws were in force at
                        the time fixed upon by our statute, & what have been enacted since that time or become
                        obsolete or been repealed—2 By adopting the common law we adopt the numberless
                        reports of the English courts which are extended spun out and confused by long statements of the
                        facts of each case, the arguments of counsel on both sides —the arguments and
                        decesions of the courts—by many of the cases taking some forty or fifty pages to
                        settle one principle which could be expressed in a half a dozen lines—by the same
                        principle being decided and repeated so often in the books—our laws are confused by
                        being mixed with laws local to 
                            England
                         and contrary to our republican institutions—We have long since thrown
                        off the political yoke of Great Britain and it is high time that we should now liberate
                        ourselves from a legal dependance on that country so far at least as to select out the rules
                        that govern us from the mass of monarchial, local obsolete & repealed laws &s
                        which now obscures them
                    Our law is like an extensive orchard which has been growing for ages in a rich soil where the
                        pruner has annually gone through and lopped of[f] small proportions of the most ugly limbs but
                        left them hanging on and incumbering the tree until by the growth of time the massy branches the
                        dead and dying limbs & brush have cast such a shade as to prevent the light and genial
                        heat of the sun from enlightening the path and rewarding the labours of the
                        husbandman—such an  orchard like our law should be
                        pruned of all the dead and limbs brush and water sprouts leaving the living and flourishing
                        branches without incumbrance to grow and produce their native fruit which would be no less easy
                        to procure than pleasant to enjoy
                    The law presumes every person to be acquainted with its principles and allows no ignorance of it
                        to form the least excuse for violating its hidden rules—the question then arises
                        whether these laws which are intended to secure our property lives and liberty shall thus be
                        rapped up in mystery and chaff while all other sciences are daily improving and becoming the
                        more easily understood—the time is at hand at which some thing ought to be done so
                        that we no longer would have to grope our way through this dark labarinth of subtleties The plan
                        in the above named bill appears to me practable—there are now Digests in use which
                        contain almost every title belonging to the law alphabetically arranged —by the use
                        of such works and a good law library it would not be very difficult for the judges to select
                        from the law books all the principles applicable to the situation and institutions of this
                        country and arrange them under their proper titles If this could be done so as to have the
                        effect of bringing the law in the reach of every intelegent mind there would be thousands both
                        in and out of this state who would embrace the opertunity of purchasing such a work and in this
                        way by securing the copy right the state might defray the greater proportion if not all the
                        expenses of such a sy[s]tem
                
         
         
            THE NEW STATES AND TERRITORIES
            
               
                        Newburyport
                     (
                        Massachusetts
                    ) Herald, April 3, 1855
            [The westward movement, which has been of such tremendous significance in the history of the 
                        United States
                    , varied with the conditions. There were occasional periods when the numbers of
                    colonists moving westward were greatly augmented. One such period was in the middle fifties, and
                    included the years from 1854 to the end of 1857. The great movement to Indiana was earlier. During
                    the boom period that ended with the panic of 1857, Indiana was sending large numbers to still newer
                    areas, and therefore had a large part in the movement which inspired the editor of the Newbury port
                        Herald to write the long editorial which we here present to our readers. The
                    comments of this eastern interpreter of the movement as he saw it are unusually interesting. The
                    editorial was copied from a clipping found in the Thomas Webb Scrap-Book, III, 81, a valuable source
                    in the possession of the 
                        Kansas
                     State Historical Society, 
                        Topeka
                    .—Editor].
            [THE EDITORIAL]
            
                    The present is a year of emigrations; not peculiar for the immigration of foreigners, for they
                        will not probably equal in numbers those of  any one of the
                        previous seven years; but for the change of our own people, in connection with immigrants from
                        the old to the new lands—from the Atlantic shores to the great basin [
                            Mississippi
                         Valley] region of the interior. In 
                            New York
                         [City], on the first of May, the general moving day, half the population are in the
                        streets changing their abodes; and so it would seem in the [whole] country now. Scarcely is
                        there a county or a town in thirty states that is not affected with the emigration fever, and
                        the people are everywhere drifting in the course of the sun, by families and companies, in the
                        cars and on the steamboats; or driving their wagon-teams. There is abundant cause for this more
                        than common. We have made the slavery question directly applicable to new territories, and the
                        North and the South are running a race for dominion; and by Indian treaties we have opened
                        millions of acres of the best lands on navigable streams, on the highway to the Pacific and the
                        line of trade to central Mexico, in the heart of the continent, to the cultivators. Then the
                        stagnation of trade that has reduced the wages and closed the avenues of employment in the East,
                        has induced persons to abandon old pursuits and engage in agriculture, where the lands are free,
                        the markets ample, and the prices of produce excessively high; and where independence will be
                        for themselves and a better future for their children.1 Notwithstanding the
                        newspapers are everyday giving paragraphs upon this subject, few persons we imagine, have a
                        correct idea of the extent of this emigration, or the points to which it is attracted.
                    KANSAS comes in for the largest share,2 and upon its
                        settlement we have more excitement than the 
                            California
                         gold discoveries produced. The census before the opening of the spring migration,
                        and before the Governor has had time to assemble his first legislative council, showed 6,000
                        white population, and 137 slaves, in twelve of the seventeen districts; and thousands were on
                        their way, taking up every means of conveyance; and tens of thousands ready to follow. The 
                            Cincinnati
                        
                        Gazette stated that 500 were in that city, tending west, on one day, of whom
                        130 were Germans marching down the street with a band of music for the boat. The Pittsburg
                        papers have told us, from time to time, that boats were leaving there crowded from 
                            Pennsylvania
                         and that region, and two thousand had actually passed down the river in the first
                        few days of navigation. In 
                            Chicago
                        , which is a grand depot upon the Lake route, 1100 were congregated at one time, and
                        they were estimated at 1500 at another. At 
                            St. Louis
                         1000 arrived in a day, and the News of the 22d ult. 
                     
                        1 It is a very general notion that the great waves of western
                                migration came in periods of depression. There were, of course, always a considerable
                                number of colonists who left old areas for new areas where government land was plentiful
                                and cheap, during hard times, but the tides flowed strongest in boom periods such as
                                those from 1833–1837 or 1855–1867. There was always a great
                                slowing up in periods of depression. It was harder for would-be colonists to find the
                                means on which to undertake a migration in such times, and furthermore frontier areas as
                                well as old regions suffered during the lows of business cycles.
                     
                        2 It seemed to many persons in the East while the struggle for 
                                    Kansas
                                 was on that the migrating multitudes must be going to that territory, but
                                this was not true in 1855, nor in any year prior to the Civil War. There was far greater
                                publicity about the movement to 
                                    Kansas
                                 and the happenings there, but the home seekers, business men or speculators
                                who moved westward during the 
                                    Kansas
                                 conflict very largely avoided that territory. In the North the great bulk
                                of them went to 
                           Michigan, Wisconsin, Illinois
                         and 
                                    Iowa
                                . In the South, they made their way to 
                           Missouri, Arkansas
                         and 
                                    Texas
                                . (See William O. Lynch, "Population Movements in Relation to the
                                Struggle for 
                                    Kansas
                                ," in Studies in American History, inscribed to
                                James Albert Woodburn.)
                  
                         says: at this moment there are not less than 2 or 3000 here.
                        Every boat from the 
                            Ohio
                         brings them to our levee; every train from the East has a company on board; and our
                        public houses are daily thronged with them! 30,000 at the lowest calculation will be added to
                        the 10,000 of last year's emigration, this spring; and an equal number will follow this
                        fall. The 
                            New York
                         League have now 2,500 who will go in April. They are to settle on the Sante Fe
                        road; 80 miles in the interior where they have surveyed and are to build Council City.3
               
                    It would be useless to begin to enumerate the settlements they have made. They are all along the
                        streams and scattered over the prairies. The school houses, the churches, the mills, the stores
                        and the cottages, are everywhere. And better settlers never went to a new country….
                    NEBRASKA we hear less of, since it is not made the battle ground for sectional
                        warfare; but its progress has been very rapid, and along the 
                            Missouri
                         and its tributaries the whole country is claimed by western squatters who were
                        first there, and have seized upon the most available sites for towns and settlements. So rapid
                        has been its growth, that laboring hands are scarce and in demand, and the prices of everything
                        very high. It is possible that it may be somewhat checked by the sharpers and speculators, who
                        in their haste to accumulate fortunes, may turn the current another way. Nothing however can
                        prevent its following close upon 
                            Kansas
                        .
                    In some of the new States the rush is nearly as great as to these territories.4 The latter are being monopolized by Northern men, while from the Gulf States of the
                        South there is a steady stream of emigration pouring into 
                            Texas
                        
                  5; and to their number are added multitudes of Germans. The
                        former seek the eastern and the latter the western sections6 of the State;
                        and Senator Rusk has calculated, and his estimate is endorsed by some of the 
                            Texas
                         papers, that this emigration, for the present season will go up to 100,000. Their
                        mode of reaching the State being different from the travel further north, their number can not
                        be so easily ascertained; but the bulk of the land travel has to pass a bridge at Linwood, on
                        the Neches river; and during the month of December 550 wagons passed over that bridge, for the
                        west; and in January 700; and it was estimated that they would average 600 per month from
                        December to the end of April, and five persons to each wagon; giving 3000 wagons and 15,000
                        emigrants by that one avenue to the State.
                    
                  
                     3 This matter reads as if it were a quotation from the 
                                St. Louis
                            
                            News of March 22, 1855, but it is not accurately quoted, and probably was
                            not intended to be. The main error is in the statement that "30,000 at the lowest
                            calculation will be added to the 10,000 of last years emigration this spring." The
                                News says: "It may be safely calculated that 10,000 to 20.000
                            hardy squatters will find a home on the fresh soil of the new territories this
                            spring."
                  
                     4 The rush to the newer states was soon to become far greater than the
                            movement to 
                                Kansas
                             Territory. The number of persons born outside but living in 
                                Texas
                             in 1860 was greater by 163,335 than in 1850; in 
                                Michigan
                            , the increase was 197,279; in 
                                Missouri
                            , 274,817; in 
                                Wisconsin
                            , 286,328; in 
                                Iowa
                            , 841,981; in 
                                Illinois
                            , 497,174; in 
                                Arkansas
                            , 100,701. The total population of 
                                Kansas
                             Territory in 1860 was 107,204.
                  
                     5 The southern movement into 
                                Missouri
                             and 
                                Arkansas
                             was also very marked in this period.
                  
                     6 Both elements settled in eastern 
                                Texas
                            . The writer only meant to say that the Germans tended to settle farther west
                            than did the southern colonists who were migrating to the state.
               
                    
                    The new States of the North, especially 
                            Iowa
                         and 
                            Wisconsin
                        ,7 are seeking to obtain their share of the floating population,
                        and no small portion of the foreigners go that way. We see constant calls through the newspapers
                        for laborers; and the railroads owning tracts of land offer the greatest inducements. Every day
                        almost we see advertisements such as appeared in the Waukesha Plain Dealer of the 21st ult.
                        "Ten thousand laborers wanted in 
                            Wisconsin
                        ." Then follows a statement of wages for mechanics and farm hands, showing
                        how much better they can do there than in eastern cities.
                    Without going further into details, all must see that these are remarkable changes, and cannot
                        fail to produce remarkable effects. The East contributes to the West, when already we are being
                        outgrown and politically out-weighed;8 but the intermixture of population
                        will be favorable to the nation, and the implantation of Eastern sentiments and institutions of
                        great advantage to the West.9 We shall be relieved of what, in
                        'hard times' such as the past winter, is a surplus population, and better will
                        it be for those who go and those who remain….
                    And this is our advantage over old countries. When financial embarrassments come, and trade
                        stagnates, and the poor suffer, they have no outlet for the unemployed, but in distant colonies;
                        and the starving show the banner mottoed 'bread or blood.' Here a continent
                        gives labor that affords the comforts of life, and wages are never so low that ten days work
                        will not carry them to the frontier, where lands are free and laborers always needed.10 We do not regret this outpouring—this swarming; it must result
                        in the common good.
                
            
               
                  7
                        
                            Illinois
                         and 
                            Michigan
                         together were able to attract more colonists than were 
                            Iowa
                         and 
                            Wisconsin
                        , together in this period.
               
                  8 The growth of the West in population and the resulting increase in power
                        in Congress and in the Electoral College gave the East much to think about.
               
                  9 The editor was thinking solely of the value to the West of eastern ideas
                        and culture, but the influence of the West on the development of the nation was of great
                        significance also. The Turner thesis did not come to the mind of the 
                            Newburyport
                         editor in 1855, nor Indeed to any American historian till long years after that.
               
                  10 The general truth is correct that the American frontier served as an
                        outlet for the surplus population of old areas for long years. It is far from true, however,
                        that the frontier was always a good place for laborers.
            
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               Here I Have Lived. By Paul M. Angle. The Abraham Lincoln Association,
                            
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , 1935. Pp. xv, 313, illustrated, $3.00.
            The sub-title of this charming volume is "A History of Lincoln's 
                        Springfield
                    , 1821–1865." The author very cleverly selected a name so fitting by
                    going to the farewell words spoken by President-elect Lincoln to his friends in 
                        Springfield
                     on February 11, 1861. The short address was delivered under stress of deep feeling as
                    the speaker stood by the rear platform of the train at the Great Western Railway station immediately
                    before leaving for 
                        Washington
                    . In all, Lincoln used but one hundred fifty words. The third sentence runs:
                    "Here I have lived for a quarter of a century, and have passed from a young to an old
                    man." The short, impressive speech made to the thousand people who braved a drizzling rain,
                    which turned out to be his last utterance in 
                        Springfield
                    , is very properly printed in full at the beginning of the book.
            The story is naturally a blend of the history of 
                        Springfield
                     and a biography of Lincoln. The beginnings of the town and life there through the early
                    period of development furnish matter for the first three chapters. It was not long after Lincoln
                    settled in the frontier town that it was made the capital and became the center of politics in 
                        Illinois
                    . The growth of 
                        Springfield
                    , its changing life, the party battles of the period, involving Lincoln, the lawyer and
                    politician, in his relations with contempories of both parties, supply fascinating contents for the
                    next six chapters. The last three chapters are devoted to the more dramatic incidents that centered
                    about Lincoln and 
                        Springfield
                     after 1852—the rise of the Republican party in 
                        Illinois
                    , the Lincoln-Douglas Debates and the election of 1860, with a little space given to the
                    War in the final chapter.
            Most of the matter pertaining to Lincoln as lawyer and political leader is not new. The purpose of
                    the author was evidently to place Lincoln in his proper setting. This was an important task and it
                    has been well done. Many readers will no doubt feel that either too much or too little space has
                    been given to politics—not enough to make a real contribution, but too much, since that
                    was not the object. The author is convinced  that it was Lincoln
                    and not Mary Todd who broke the engagement on the "fatal first of January," 1841,
                    but he expresses no judgment on the story of Herndon and Weik to the effect that the break came only
                    when Lincoln failed to appear as the wedding ceremony was about to be performed.
            In regard to the dramatic episode in which Lincoln and a Whig colleague in the lower branch of the 
                        Illinois
                     Legislature climbed through a window in a belated attempt to prevent a quorum, the
                    reader is left under the impression that the incident was connected with the old State House. The
                    event occurred in the special session of 1840, in December of that year. Joseph Gillespie, the Whig
                    colleague who was Lincoln's partner in this ludicrous performance, wrote to Herndon on
                    January 31, 1866, that the House "then [December, 1840] met in a church in 
                        Springfield
                    " (Beveridge, Abraham Lincoln, I, p. 280, quoting Gillespie).
                    If Gillespie was correct, Lincoln did not jump from a window of the old State House, which, though
                    modified, still stands in 
                        Springfield
                    . If Gillespie was wrong, his error should be made clear by Lincoln biographers.
            
               Here I Have Lived is an unusually interesting and valuable addition to the
                    voluminous literature relating to Lincoln. It is easy to read and is strongly recommended to all who
                    enjoy reading books that deal with Lincoln's life. Serious students of Lincoln will find
                    the volume very helpful. It is accompanied by an extensive, though not exhaustive, bibliography, but
                    there are no footnotes. The reviewer does not feel that any able writer and research student, like
                    the author of this volume, should omit footnotes in deference to the foolish cry of many persons
                    that footnotes clutter up a volume and annoy readers. Anyone who reads a book is privileged to
                    ignore the footnotes if he wishes to do so, and that should satisfy all who are fair-minded. The
                    complaint is more of a fad than anything else, and is carelessly voiced by many people who would
                    never have been bothered by footnotes if they had not noticed the objections to their use made by
                    others. This contention does not mean that any volume is improved by a large amount of heavy and
                    useless comment in footnotes.
            William O. Lynch.
         
         
         
            
               The Civil War Letters of Colonel Hans Christian Heg. Edited by Theodore C.
                    Blegen. Norwegian-American Historical Association, Northfield, 
                        Minnesota
                    , 1936. Pp. ix, 260, illustrated, $2.50.
            The first letter published in this volume was written on January 16, 1862, at Camp Randall, the last
                    on September 18, 1863, nineteen miles from 
                        Chattanooga
                    . Colonel Heg was mortally wounded on September 19, 1863, during the Battle of
                    Chickamauga, and died the next day. He was an intelligent man whose language is quite good and whose
                    observations relative to campaigns, battles and other matters pertaining to service in the field are
                    of much value.
            The original letters are included in two different collections. The widow of Colonel Heg preserved
                    his letters to her until her death in 1922. In 1928 her daughter Mrs. Charles N. Fowler of
                    Elizabeth, 
                        New Jersey
                     gave them to the 
                        Wisconsin
                     State Historical Society. When this group of letters was ready for publication, a
                    second collection of more than one hundred twenty-five of the Colonel's letters was
                    discovered in the possession of a great-granddaughter, a Mrs. A. R. Van Doren of Summit, 
                        New Jersey
                    . The collection as published is a combination of the two groups. Some are not included
                    while others are published in part or summarized.
            The editor of the volume has used his own words wherever he has chosen to eliminate a part of a
                    letter or shorten a passage. The writer's words are all printed in roman while those of the
                    editor are italicized. In all such instances, the editor has selected his words so that the
                    communication reads as if no change had been made. It is a question whether it would not have been
                    better for the editor to enclose all of his own words in brackets and print them in roman. It would
                    have been a simple matter to use brackets, and their use would have been readily understood.
                    Italicized words have an established significance, and it would seem better not to use them as
                    employed in this volume when a standardized device would serve the purpose well.
            The letters are preceded by a biographical sketch of Colonel Heg which runs to forty-five pages. This
                    sketch, by the editor of the volume, is unusually fine. The Norweigian lad, Hans Christian Heg, was
                    brought to 
                        Wisconsin
                     from his native country in 1840 when eleven years of age. He led an interesting  life as a farmer youth in 
                        Wisconsin
                    , as a young man interested in politics and newspaper work in that state, and as an
                    adventurer in 
                        California
                     with other "forty-niner's.". Returning to 
                        Wisconsin
                     in 1851, shortly after the death of his father, Heg, who had been a Democrat, became a
                    Free Soiler and later a Republican. For service in the Civil War, the young man raised a
                    Scandinavian regiment which was largely made up of Norwegians. At thirty-three years of age, he went
                    to the front as Colonel of this Regiment, the Fifteenth Wisconsin. Both the Colonel and the Regiment
                    played colorful parts in the conflict and both the letters and the biography furnish very
                    interesting and profitable reading.
            W. O. L.
         
         
            
               A Brief Centennial History of 
                            Wabash
                         County is the title of a pamphlet by President Otho Winger of 
                        Manchester
                     College, which he brought out at North 
                        Manchester
                    , Indiana, in 1935. This narrative of forty-four pages covers the history of 
                        Wabash
                     County from its organization in 1835 to its hundredth anniversary in 1935. The story is
                    enlivened by a number of excellent illustrations. Some space is devoted to the geography of the
                    country of which the County forms a part, and some to Indian history, including the story of Frances
                    Slocum.
            The first permanent home erected within the limits of 
                        Wabash
                     County by a white man was that of Samuel McClure. This was in June, 1827. Soon
                    afterwards, his son, Samuel McClure, Jr., opened the first store. During the next few years,
                    settlers flowed into the new area. The town of 
                        Wabash
                     was started in 1834, a year before the county, taking the same name, was established.
            In the few pages at his disposal, President Winger has told a good story of the development of
                    civilization in a splendid county of the 
                        Wabash
                     Valley. He gives attention to the history of the city of 
                        Wabash
                     and to the growth of other cities and towns. Into his notices of the several Townships,
                    he weaves some important facts relating to the economic and political history of the people. He
                    gives separate treatment to religion, education, and the professions.
            A map of 
                        Wabash
                     County occupies one page, and two special maps are presented on other pages. Some
                    poetry is  added for good measure: "On the Banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    ," by Dresser; "The Hills o'
                        Somerset
                    ," by Riley; and "On the Banks of the Old Mississinewa," by
                    the Rev. Frank Huston of 
                        Knightstown
                    , Indiana. It is hard to see how more could have been done by the author in the limited
                    space at his command. Copies of the pamphlet may be obtained from the author by writing to him at 
                        Manchester
                     College, North 
                        Manchester
                    , Indiana.
            Dr. E. V. Wilcox, President of The Shakespeare Society of 
                        Washington
                    , D. C, after reading "Lincoln Knew Shakespeare" by R. Gerald
                    McMurtry, which appeared in our last issue, sent in the following contribution which will no doubt
                    interest many of our readers: 
                  
                     
                        By way of supplement to the very interesting article, "Lincoln Knew
                                    Shakespeare," in the December, 1935, issue of the Indiana
                                        Magazine of History, it may be worth while to recite another bit of
                                    testimony showing Lincoln's understanding of Shakespeare's plays.
                                    The late Charles B. Hanford began his long stage career in the company of Edwin
                                    Booth and Lawrence Barrett. He looked upon Booth with a feeling little short of
                                    adoration. Their friendship was reciprocal. Hanford was given opportunities in
                                    Shakespearean roles which greatly stimulated the development of his histrionic
                                    ability. Later Hanford formed his own company, touring the west and south with a
                                    Shakespearean repertory of a dozen or more plays.
                        Upon his retirement from active trouping, Hanford came to 
                                        Washington
                                    , but he could never shake off his love for the theater. For several
                                    years, in fact until shortly before his death, he directed the dramatic work of the
                                    Shakespeare Society of 
                                        Washington
                                     in the presentation of "Julius Caesar,"
                                    "Much Ado About Nothing," "Merchant of Venice,"
                                    "Othello," "Anthony and Cleopatra" and other
                                    plays. He played various roles for the Society, and, in the intervals of rest during
                                    rehearsals, he once related to us the process by which he had inherited the
                                    conception of the part of Claudius, Hamlet's uncle, as he enacted it. It
                                    seems that, on arriving in 
                                        Washington
                                     on one of his regular tours, Edwin Booth called on Lincoln in the White
                                    House. Booth was presenting "Hamlet" that week. Lincoln remarked
                                    that in his opinion the part of Claudius was always unduly slighted in staging the
                                    play, often cut so as to mutilate its meaning and usually assigned to some tyro or
                                    incompetent actor, as if Claudius were merely a miserable old villain who should be
                                    gotton off the stage as soon as he had mumbled a few lines.
                        Lincoln then and there proceeded to show exactly what he meant by speaking and acting
                                    the long soliloquy, beginning "Oh, my offense is rank, it smells to
                                    heaven." Booth was so impressed by it that he hurried back to the theater
                                    and taught Hanford how to read the soliloquy of Claudius a la
                                    Lincoln. In his later life, Hanford read the rôole for the  Shakespeare Society of 
                                        Washington
                                    . The central idea of Lincoln's conception was that in this
                                    soliloquy Claudius was genuinely seeking repentance but found himself too deeply
                                    sunk in iniquity to rise out of the mire. Lincoln's criticism of the
                                    ordinary rendering of the passage was that the actor read the lines too casually or
                                    theatrically, or at least without the required tragic earnestness.
                        Needless to say if Lincoln's reading of the soliloquy impressed Booth as the
                                    best he had ever heard, it must have been effective indeed. According to Hanford,
                                    the point that chiefly surprised and interested Booth was not that Lincoln enjoyed
                                    Shakespeare and found time to read some of his dramas in the intervals of a busy
                                    life, but that he had memorized many of the great speeches and soliloquies in
                                    "Hamlet," "Macbeth,"
                                    "Othello," "King John," "Richard
                                    II," "Henry IV" and others and, what is much more, had so
                                    completely mastered their meaning that he could enact them with the fervor and
                                    dramatic feeling of the consummate artist.
                        
                                    E. V. Wilcox.
                                
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages
            BEGINNINGS OF A POSSIBLE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
            By a Man of Common Clay
            I
            The farm of one hundred forty acres on which I was born formed a part of a wide stretch of heavily
                    wooded, black, flat land, lying at the southern edge of Deer Creek Township, 
                        Carroll County
                    , Indiana. This district, though one of the highest in the County, was so nearly level
                    that the natural drainage was very poor. The farm, which was purchased at a moderate price from the
                    combined resources of my father and mother, shortly after marriage, with only a modest balance of a
                    few hundred dollars to be paid in the future, lay on the divide between two small streams. Bridge
                    Creek flowed along a full half-mile to the north. This stream had considerable fall, and its valley
                    was bordered by low bluffs, but it was too far away to be of much advantage. A quarter of a mile to
                    the south, a sluggish, little creek flowed westward. It was known on the maps as Little Sugar Creek,
                    but locally as Molasses Creek or "Lasses Crick".1 This land
                    did slope towards this small run, but so gently as to be scarcely perceptible. There were no bluffs
                    and scarcely any banks, but after a freshet, a veritable flood swept over the country following the
                    general line of the Creek.
            My paternal grandfather was born in western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . As a youth he was apprenticed that he might learn a trade, but disliking his master,
                    he ran away to 
                        Ohio
                    , breaking connections with his family. He was married in 
                        Ohio
                     and there some of his children were born. In 1835 he migrated with his family,
                    household goods, and live stock to the country south of Delphi, Indiana, where in the course of his
                    life time, he owned a number of different farms. His sons and daughters became well acquainted with
                    frontier life. Always, it seemed there were buildings to be erected, rails to be split, fences to be
                    built, and lands to be cleared on new farms, as the family moved often, John Lynch being a trader
                        
                  
                     1 Little Sugar Creek was straightened and deepened in the area
                            described under the terms of the ditch-tax law of Indiana in the early eighties. About
                            twenty years ago large tile were put in, but the volume of water is occasionally so large
                            that the old creek demonstrates that it can be as wide and deep as it ever was before
                            cooperating farmers tried to control it. This stream flows into Sugar Creek about a mile
                            west of the 
                                Dayton
                             Road.
               
                     in lands. My father, was the youngest son. He was born on
                    December 28, 1840, near the outer edge of civilization, but he was christened Isaac
                        Newton.
            
            My maternal grandfather, Robert 
                        Franklin
                     Connelly, was born in the Blue Grass area of 
                        Kentucky
                     not far from 
                        Georgetown
                    , where he grew to manhood. There he married Frances Herndon, and there his eldest son
                    and eldest daughter were born. He likewise migrated to north central Indiana in 1835. He acquired a
                    tract of land five miles south of Delphi fronting on what has always been known as the 
                        Dayton
                     Road. Here he quickly founded a home, and here the rest of his children were born, my
                    mother, Frances Jane Berniece, being the youngest daughter. She was born in the original, but fairly
                    comfortable, cabin home on February 18, 1845.
            In his Sketches of My Own Times,2 Senator David Turpie
                    described the early Indiana home maintained by my mother's parents: 
                        There were several double log cabins in our neighborhood. One of these was the home of a
                            Kentuckian … who had sold his possessions in his native state, bought a large
                            tract of land in our country, and had been living on it for some years. His double cabin was
                            built of hewn timber, the yard around it was filled with choice shrubs and fruit trees
                            brought from the old settlements over the river, by which he always
                            described the country of his former home. The sides and ends of his house were bordered all
                            around by a broad strip of sand and gravel. The gates and fences of the house-lot were of
                            plank, its walks were well laid out and covered with gravel. He lived near Sugar Creek,3 sometimes called Big Sugar, and made good use of its long-accumulated
                            deposits. The space between the two cabins was known as the entry, and was
                            wide and roomy. The entry in this house was roofed with clapboards, and its floor was of
                            clay and gravel beaten down hard and smooth. It was open at both ends; you could stand or
                            sit in it, in the hottest day of summer, and yet feel a cool and refreshing draft of air in
                            its shade.
                    
            
            In 1855, a new home of brick, which still stands, was constructed about fifty rods east of the 
                        Dayton
                     Road, fronted by a grove about ten rods in with, extending from the house to the
                    highway. This grove of native forest trees appears today much as it did when my grandfather
                    preserved it to form a park in front of his residence, through which a drive 
                  
                     2 Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1903), 9–10.
                  
                     3 The Sugar Creek here mentioned is not the well-known stream of that
                            name which so many people know who visit Turkey Run or the Shades of Death, but a much
                            smaller stream that flows into the 
                                Wabash
                             from the east a few miles above 
                                Lafayette
                             opposite the mouth of the 
                                Tippecanoe
                            .
               
                     was laid out. His was a conscious effort to provide in the new
                    country to which he had come, something akin to what he had known in the Blue Grass country of his
                    native state.4
            
            The one family drifted into Indiana from 
                        Ohio
                     with the tide that ran so strongly during the boom that reached a climax in 1836 and
                    collapsed in 1837. The other family came in at the same time with the current that flowed from 
                        Kentucky
                    . The youngest son of the one and the youngest daughter of the other, both of whom were
                    born in Indiana were married on December 3, 1863. The land which the young people acquired during
                    the few years following their wedding was slowly improved, and on it they reared their family. The
                    farm which they developed was part of a larger block of 320 acres, first owned by Joseph
                    Hollingsworth. This half section was entered on March 28, 1835, and a patent was issued to
                    Hollingsworth by the federal Government.5
            
            The first little house in which my parents lived was on a gentle knoll, about sixty rods from the
                    highway which ran from Delphi to 
                        Frankfort
                    . The first fields had been cleared in the area about this cabin in the years before my
                    father brought his young wife there to live. In a short time a new home made of hewn logs was built
                    near the road. The main room was about twenty by eighteen feet, with a stairway and a room above.
                    The upper room was not a full room, the house being a story and a half high. For a number of years,
                    the "up-stairs" was not plastered, but it was used as a sleeping room.
            It was not long until a large room was added at the rear. This was shedded off from the main part of
                    the house. It was not built of logs but was sealed inside with planed boards, with a good ceiling
                    above, and weather-boarded outside. While this room was being constructed, the inner walls of the
                    older part of the house were covered with planed boards and the outer walls were weather-boarded.
                    The boards were placed vertically and the cracks between them were covered with strips about an inch
                    thick and three inches wide. All this was done before my day, and so completely were all the logs
                        
                  
                     4 This old Connelly farm, which now consists of 155 acres, is today
                            owned by Mrs. Fanny Robinson Carney of Delphi, whose father, Henry Robinson, owned it for
                            many years. The home is in an excellent state of preservation.
                  
                     5 An abstract of title prepared for my father in 1883 is in my
                            possession. The 320 acres entered by Joseph Hollingsworth is described in the Tract Book as
                            the "South 1/2 of Section 10, Township 24 North, Range 2 West."
               
                     covered, that I did not know until I was twelve years of age
                    that I was born in a log-house.
            The siding on the house was painted red and the weather strips were painted white, not an unknown
                    style in the seventies. The earliest picture of the home stands out in my mind just the way it
                    looked to me when, as a boy of five, I saw it from a distance when the family was returning in the
                    evening from a Sunday visit with relatives. The house, with an evergreen tree in front and a really
                    beautiful cotton-wood at the southeast, appealed to me as a fine home. Especially did I like the
                    colors—the wider strips of red separated by the narrower strips of white, covering the
                    entire building, but running vertically. I have not seen a house painted like that for many years. I
                    would not care to live in one decorated in that fashion now, but I was proud of our home until I
                    grew old enough to notice that good houses were covered with horizontal siding and painted white,
                    gray, brown, or even red, but never covered with white and red stripes.
            The orchard was at one side to the north. The garden was in front of the house for some years, but
                    was then relegated to the area at the back of the house so that the lawn might be extended. The
                    stable was to the south and the large barn-lot, or barn-yard, was covered with blue-grass which
                    horses, cattle, and hogs were never permitted to injure. The gate which led from the yard about the
                    house opened into this clean, green area, through which paths led to the stable, or to the drive and
                    along that to the big-gate which gave access to the highway.6
            
            In the back-yard, was a pole about twelve feet high, to the top of which was anchored a bell, the
                    ringing of which was a summons to the dining table. It could be heard on any part of the farm and
                    its music was always welcome. A fine dog, called Shep, when about the house, would sit back on his
                    haunches, point his nose upward and send his best notes skyward in unison with the tones of the
                    bell.
            Towards the north side of the back yard, was the ash-hopper, an indispensible contrivance. A
                    hollowed-out piece of wood or trough sloping forward was set about a foot from 
                  
                     6 This road which was known as the Delphi and Prince William Road, was
                            made a county road and graveled in 1881. No greater boon than this gravel road ever came to
                            the farmers of the area which it served. Many years later, the line became State Road No.
                            39. Recently a paved road was constructed a half mile to the west, which is now State Road
                            No. 39.
               
                     the ground in the midst of four posts with a line of boards
                    nailed to the tops of the posts to form a rectangle. It might be four posts with a fork at the top
                    of each and poles laid in the forks. To make a hopper boards were set in all around with the lower
                    end of each in the trough at the bottom and the top sloping out and resting against one of the
                    boards or poles that formed the enclosure. Into this hopper went the wood-ashes of the long winter
                    season, some straw being first placed in the bottom. Protected from rains until spring-time, water
                    was then poured through the ashes from time to time and the alkaline fluid caught in a vessel at the
                    lower end of the trough at the bottom.7
            
            At the proper time, the "soap-grease", carefully accumulated as the ashes were
                    slowly increasing in quantity, was brought out and soap-making began. Not far from the ash-hopper,
                    there were always two short uprights with forked tops and a pole reaching from one to the other. On
                    this pole, a large iron kettle was hung in which soap was manufactured in large quantities every
                    year. Water could be boiled in the same kettle on wash-days. In the fall, apple-butter, an
                    ever-present commodity of earlier times (The supply was never exhausted, it seems to me as I look
                    back), was made on the same spot where soap was made in the spring, but not in the same kettle. For
                    this purpose, there was usually a single, large, copper kettle in each community. The family
                    possessing such a kettle had to be accommodating and cheerful, since the prized vessel must be
                    loaned to several other families annually in apple-butter time.
            The back-yard of necessity had a milk-house and a smokehouse. In the latter, the hams, shoulders and
                    sides of pork, left over from the winter butchering were hung and cured by smoking in the early
                    spring. The milk-house was located close to the kitchen with the pump near the entrance. In this
                    flat country, there were no springs. The wells were shallow, seldom more than fifteen or eighteen
                    feet in depth, and often less. They were walled with brick (occasionally with rock), and the water
                    was elevated by wooden suction pumps. Inside the milk-house, there was a long, wide, shallow trough,
                    in which water about three inches in depth could be kept. This 
                  
                     7 On many a spring day, when not in school (Country schools usually
                            ran six months in my day, and closed before soap-making time), it fell to my lot to pour a
                            bucket (We did not say pail in that neighborhood) of water on the ashes in
                            the hopper at regular (?) intervals.
               
                     would hold many milk-crocks and numerous other vessels, that
                    were suitable, in which to place milk, butter and other foods that must be kept cool. One of the
                    tasks which I could seldom escape, when a boy old enough to do chores, was that of pulling the cork,
                    letting the water run out of the milk-trough, and then pumping the required amount of water to fill
                    it again to an adequate depth. It was fun to run off the water that had stood for a time, but
                    pumping the fresh supply on a hot day was different.
         
         
         
            Contributors to this issue: Mrs. Evelyn C. Adams of 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , has for
                    some years taken a deep interest in the evidence that the public's conception of social
                    responsibility is growing. Dr. William M. Reser of 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana, who has contributed to the Magazine in the past, is much
                    interested in the history of 
                        Lafayette
                     and the region tributary thereto. Mr. Douglas C. McMurtrie is connected with a printing
                    company in 
                        Chicago
                    . Rev. J. Milton Williams, formerly pastor of the Methodist Church at Wheeler, Indiana,
                    and historian of the Northwest Indiana Conference, now lives at Racine, 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Miss Julie LeClerc 
                        Knox
                    , a frequent contributor to the Magazine, is a teacher of Latin in the
                    Craw-fordsville, Indiana, High School. Mr. Max Ehrman is a well-known author and poet of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana. Mr. Oka Stanton Flick is a teacher of history in Technical High School, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired publications may write to the
                        Indiana Magazine of Histor.
            
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a series need of more copies of the following
                    numbers, especially those marked with asterisks:
            
               
                  ∗Volume I, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec, 1905).
               Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec, 1906).
               Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec, 1907).
               Volume IV, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec, 1908).
               Volume V, 2, 3, 4 (June, Sept., Dec, 1909).
               Volume VI, 1, 3, 4 (March, Sept., Dec, 1910).
               Volume VII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec, 1911).
               
                  ∗Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec, 1912).
               Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
               
                  ∗Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
               
                  ∗Volume XVII, 4 (Dec, 1921).
               Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
               Volume XXII, 1 (March, 1926).
            
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries or individuals who
                    may desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied at fifty cents a copy, or
                    two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four
                    dollars per volume. Issues from 1905–1913, when they can be supplied at all, will be sold
                    at one and a half dollars per number.
            
            The Indiana University Library needs the following publications to complete its files. Anyone having
                    any of these publications will confer a great favor by writing to W.A. Alexander, Librarian of
                    Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            
                    The Indiana Alumnus
                
            
               Volume VI, 14 (Dec. 25, 1926). Wanted 3 copies.
               Volume VI, 16 (Jan. 16, 1927). Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
               The Indiana University Catalogue. The University needs the following to fill out
                    the files.
            
               1832–1833. Wanted 3 copies.
               1833–1834. Wanted 3 copies.
               1834–1835. Wanted 3 copies.
               1836–1837. Wanted 2 copies.
               1837–1838. Wanted 2 copies.
               1839–1840. Wanted 2 copies.
               1840–1841. Wanted 2 copies.
               1843–1844. Wanted 2 copies.
               1849–1850. Wanted 2 copies.
               1853–1854. Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
               The Indiana School Journal. Wanted Volume XXXVII (1892) and Volume XXXVIII (1893).
            
               Lincoln Lore. Wanted copies of Numbers 3–8, 10–11, 13,
                    15–17, 22, 26–29, 34 and 35 of 1929; Numbers 53 and 60 of 1930.
            
               Indiana Law Journal. Wanted copies of: Vol. I, No. 1; Vol. II, Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6;
                    Vol. III, Nos. 1, 5, 6. The desired copies were published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     during 1898–1899.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
