
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 51, Issue 3, pages 185-278. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:51+issue:3+year:1955&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Rise of the Republican Party in Indiana, 1855-1856
            
                    Roger H. Van Bolt
                    *
                
            The fusion of the anti-Democratic elements in 1854 had been accomplished under intense heat;1 the resulting amalgam was yet to be tested for durability. With no elections
                    in 1855 to keep the political fires burning, the manipulators of Fusionism were cautiously observing
                    the cooling-down process, waiting to see what they had created. The year 1855 would reveal whether
                    the result was a new compound or merely a mixture.
            Shortly after the fall elections of 1854, while the Democrats were still smarting under their defeat
                    by the conglomeration of antagonisms that had routed them "Horse, Foot, and
                        Dragoon,"2 the Fusionists called an outdoor meeting at 
                        Indianapolis
                     for November 1, 1854, to celebrate their victory. Thomas Smith of 
                        New Albany
                     was chairman; among the speakers were Henry S. Lane, Samuel W. Parker, Oliver P.
                    Morton, and Godlove Orth. The theme of their speeches was by now a familiar one: to forget all past
                    political affiliations and to forward the new movement. They declared that freedom, temperance, and
                    pure elections should be the watchword of the party. The "people" resolved that
                    the Declaration 
                  
                     * Roger H. Van Bolt is in charge of research and
                            information at Henry Ford Museum and Greenfield Village, 
                        Dearborn, Michigan
                     .
                            This article is the concluding chapter of his Ph.D. dissertation, "The Rise of the
                            Republican Party in Indiana, 1840-1856," completed at the University of 
                                Chicago
                            , 1950, under the direction of Avery O. Craven. Preceding articles are:
                            "The Indiana Scene in the 1840's," Indiana
                                Magazineof History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), XLVII (1951), 333-356; "The Hoosier Politician of the
                            1840's," ibid., XLVIII (1952), 23-36;
                            "Sectional Aspects of Expansion, 1844-1848,"ibid.,
                            119-140; "Hoosiers and the Western Program, 1844-1848,"ibid. 255-276; "The Hoosiers and the ‘Eternal
                            Agitation,’ 1848-1850," ibid., 331-368;
                            "Indiana in Political Transition, 1851-1853," ibid.,
                            XLIX (1953), 131-160; and "Fusion Out of Confusion, 1854," ibid., 353-390.
                  
                     1 For a discussion of this fusion, see Van Bolt, "Fusion Out
                            of Confusion, 1854," ibid., XLIX, 353-390
                  
                     2 E. C. Sugg to William English, Tray, January 1, 1855, English
                            Collection, Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     of Independence, the Constitution, the Ordinance of 1787, and
                    the resolutions of July 13 were long enough and broad enough planks with which to build a platform
                    capable of supporting all the American people.3
            
            When the meeting adjourned, the Know Nothings in the group stayed on to hold a conclave of their
                    state council. After many arguments, they chose Godlove Orth as their candidate for 
                        United States
                     senator and Milton Gregg of the 
                  
                            New Albany
                         Tribune for state printer. The action of the council indicated trouble ahead
                    for the brittle new party, for the politically experienced realized that organization should come
                    before a search for party spoils. Men like Jacob Chapman and Michael C. Garber had hoped that strong
                    organization would be developed.4
            
            When the legislature convened in January, 1855, the new party was given its first opportunity to
                    carry out its political promises. The first obstacle to hurdle was the election of a 
                        United States
                     senator. Rather than permit the choice of a Fusionist, the Democrats refused to caucus.
                    Some Fusionists who reasoned that the so-called old liners could not refuse to go into an election
                    felt that the stalemate was temporary. As Orth wrote: "For this would, more than anything
                    else [serve] to drive us together & Keep us together for the next campaign—nor
                    will the Prest. Election swallow up this dereliction of duty as they confidentially
                        hope."5
            
            A week went by, and with it went the hope of ending the deadlock. Orth's optimism was gone;
                    now he wrote: "If they [the old liners] had the assurance that a Natl. Whig—who
                    didn't fuse, don't fuse, and who is anti-Sam, could command the necessary
                    strength—they would, in my opinion, give him the old line vote—and elect
                        him."6 Thus in its first 
                  
                     3
                            Indiana Weekly State Journal, November 4, 1854. Charles Zimmerman,
                            "The Origin and Rise of the Republican Party in Indiana from 1854 to
                            1860," Indiana Magazine of History, XIII (1917), 247.
                  
                     4 Carl F. Brand, "The History of the Know Nothing Party in
                            Indiana," ibid., XVIII (1922), 78-79; Mildred C. Stoler,
                            "The Democratic Element in the New Republican Party in Indiana." ibid. XXXVI (1940). 186. Garber was editor of the Madison
                                Courier and Chapman, an, ad: Nebraska Democrat, edited Chapman's Chanticleer in 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     5 Godlove S. Orth to Schuyler Colfax, 
                                Lafayette
                            , February 5, 1855, in J. Herman Schauinger (ed.), "The Letters of
                            Godlove S. Orth, Hoosier American," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XL (1944), 62-63.
                  
                     6 Orth to Colfax, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , February 14, 1855, ibid., 63-64. "Sam" was
                            the nickname for the Know Nothing party, derived from its password, "Have you seen
                            Sam today?" Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party in
                            Indiana," ibid., XVIII, 180.
               
                     political skirmish with the Democracy the Fusion lost the
                    encounter. As a consequence of this stalemate, Jesse Bright alone represented Indiana in the United
                    States Senate until 1857. In the meantime, the legislature attempted to co-operate on other matters.
            The temperance advocates of 1854 were still to be satisfied. Early in February, 1855, the general
                    assembly approved an act which prohibited the sale of liquor in the state, following the 
                        Maine
                     law principle. The new law passed with a comfortable majority and in the senate, where
                    the Democrats held a slight advantage, seven members of that party supported it. Popular reaction
                    among the "cold water" boys was spontaneous. Indiana had again joined the ranks of
                    the reformers. Governor Joseph A. Wright's faithful correspondent, John Hunt, reported that
                    "the people here are Laughing all over their faces on account [of] the passage of the
                    Temperence Bill; we have had 2 illuminations. they are becoming intemperate on
                        temperence."7
            
            The so-called Whiskey Democrats were not yet defeated, however. Within a short time, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     saloonkeeper named Roderick Beebe opened for business. His immediate arrest made
                    possible a test case. The Indiana Supreme Court received the case in the November term, and Judge
                    Samuel E. Perkins, who had declared the legislation of 1853 unconstitutional, handed down the same
                    decision on this temperance bill.8 Thus the door was opened once again for
                    unhampered liquor traffic. Politically, the Democrats had won another victory, this time in the
                    courts of the state.
            Their defeat stimulated the temperance advocates to action again, but this time their sphere of
                    activity was within the new party. As a direct result of the Beebe decision, the state temperance
                    convention met in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on February 22, 1856. The resolutions of the convention were the same as those of the
                    past, and the advocates declared they would not support for a state political office any candidate
                    who opposed a prohibitory law. The leaders of this convention were familiar 
                  
                     7 John Hunt to Joseph A. Wright, 
                                Richmond
                            , February 21, 1855, Joseph A. Wright Papers, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Laws of Indiana, 1855, pp. 209-223. Indiana
                                Senate Journal, 1855, p. 272.
                  
                     8
                            Beebe v. The State, 6 Indiana Reports, 501-556. The dissenting opinion was
                            delivered by Judge Samuel B. Gookins of 
                                Terre Haute
                            , a wright appointee and Fusionist. For a discussion of the litigation of 1853,
                            see Van Bolt, "Indiana in Political Transition, 1851-1853" Indiana Manazine of History, XLIX, 159.
               
                     ones to temperance as well as to other causes. Among them were
                    John W. Dawson, editor of the 
                  
                            Fort Wayne
                         Times, a prominent Know Nothing; John D. Defrees, Whig leader and guiding
                    light of the Fusionists; and Andrew L. Robinson, Liberty party man of long standing. After this
                    second defeat the temperance men did not retreat and then strike again with any great degree of
                    force; rather their crusade lapsed into a dormant period and was lost in the growing political
                    turbulence of the sectional conflict. The Democrats, however, by refusing to approve a prohibitory
                    law were seemingly taking a calculated political risk. They kept the good will of the foreign
                    voters, even though their stand had served to reactivate one of the elements of the Fusionist.9
            
            In the closing days of the legislature of 1855, the members attempted once again to revise the
                    banking structure of the state, and again the Hoosier Democrats enjoyed a measure of political
                    success. The bank run of 1854 had exposed the frailties resulting from the mushroom growth of the
                    free banks. As the time for expiration of the charter of the Second State Bank drew near, the
                    politicians stepped in to create a new structure. The new bank bill was promptly vetoed by the
                    governor, whose antibank sympathies were well known. The legislature, however, overrode the veto
                    with the result that a new system went into effect.10
            
            While this new system was an economic success in itself and provided a stable banking structure, the
                    maneuvers attendant on its organization were significant politically. At the instigation of Governor
                    Wright, an investigating committee appointed by the state senate in 1857 revealed some of the
                    machinations of 1855, when politicians had engineered the charter through the legislature in such a
                    way as to secure control of he system. Calvin Fletcher accused Judge Thomas L. Smith of 
                        New Albany
                     of offering to renew the old charter for an advance of $10,000. Through the
                    efforts of the lobby headed by Smith, provision was made to sell the bank stock between 9 and 12
                    A.M. on the day and place specified in the 
                  
                     9
                            Indianapolis Daily Journal, February 23, 1866; Zimmerman, "Origin
                            and Rise of the Republican Party in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XIII, 249; Charles E. Canup, "Temperance Movements and
                            Legislation in Indiana,"ibid., XVI (1920), 24-27.
                  
                     10
                            Laws of Indiana, 1855, pp. 229-251; Indiana Documentary
                                Journal, 1855, pp. 713-716, 717, 727.
               
                     official notices, instead of for a thirty-day period, as under
                    the old charter.11
            
            The commissioners named in the charter were politicians of both camps. Heading the list were Smith, a
                    politician of long standing in 
                        New Albany
                    ; Andrew L. Osborn of 
                        La Porte
                    , law partner of John B. Niles, the railroad promoter; Jehu T. Elliott, brother-in-law
                    of Martin L. Bundy, an active Whig from 
                        New Castle
                     in the Whitewater Valley; Addison L. Roache, who had resigned from
                    the state supreme court the year before; and John D. Defrees, an ardent Whig who had sold the
                    Indianapolis Journal in 1854 and was now managing the fortunes of the Fusion.12
            
            The duties of selling stock in the new bank were delegated to sub-commissioners, whose hours of labor
                    were short. In 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the books were opened very briefly in the offices of the Indiana and Illinois Central
                    Railroad Company. In a 
                        Richmond
                     hotel Phineas M. Kent of 
                        New Albany
                     bought more than seventeen hundred shares in the branch in a few minutes, whereupon the
                    commissioner, carpetbag in hand, paid the landlord and departed. Similar methods in other towns
                    allowed a select group of politicians of both parties, by depositing a token payment for each share,
                    to control the new state bank, which they hoped to sell in turn at a premium to legitimate
                        bankers.13
            
            Sale records filed with the state bank revealed that Michael G. Bright was the largest single
                    shareholder. The next largest holders were almost all from 
                        New Albany
                    : Washington C. DePauw, Samuel H. Patterson, John S. Davis, and Phineas M. Kent. DePauw
                    had retired as a clerk in the Floyd County Court in 1853, and at the moment was engaged 
                  
                     11
                            Journal of the Bank Investigating Committee, a Select Committee of the
                            Indiana Senate, 1857 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1857), 40-41, 38. See Smith's testimony in ibid.,
                            120-130. The phrase at issue read as follows: "which books shall be opened between
                            the hours of 9 and 12 A.M. on the days and at the place specified in such notice, and if the
                            requisite amount of stock shall not sooner be subscribed, said books may be kept open
                            between the same hours each day, for the space of thirty days." Laws
                                of Indiana, 1855, p. 245.
                  
                     12 George Hazzard, Hazzard's History of 
                                    Henry County
                                , Indiana, 1822-1906 (Military ed.; 2 vols., 
                                New Castle
                            , 1906), II, 1039-1045. Leander J. Monks (ed.), Courts and Lawyers
                                of Indiana (3 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), I, 255, 260; II, 674. A Biographical History of Eminent
                                and Self-made Men of the State of Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1880), District 6, pp. 27-28; District 7, pp. 252-254; District 13, p. 48.
                  
                     13
                            Journal of the Bank Investigating Committee, 5, 23, 34, 410, 411-413.
                            Estimates of the length of time at 
                                Indianapolis
                             vary from ten to fourteen minutes.
               
                     in sawmilling. Patterson, a shrewd operator and former clock
                    vendor, had manipulated the leasing of the convicts of the state prison some years before. John S.
                    Davis was an ardent Whig and successful criminal lawyer of 
                        New Albany
                    . Phineas Kent, originally a 
                        Quaker
                     from 
                        Vevay
                    , was a some-time ally of the Brights and former partner with John B. Norman in the
                    Democratic 
                        New Albany
                     Ledger. The Brights and the 
                        New Albany
                     syndicate held almost one-third of the total shares in the new bank.14
            
            Other politicians shared the spoils. In 
                        Logansport
                    , Graham Fitch held over a thousand shares in that branch. Thomas Dowling, an old
                    National Whig, with thirteen hundred shares controlled the Terre Haute branch. Samuel Sample of 
                        South Bend
                    , another old-line Whig, bought one hundred shares there. John L. Robinson held four
                    hundred shares in the Rushville branch. In 
                        Indianapolis
                    , of the fourteen original stockholders, at least six were newspaper-politicians. Among
                    the Fusionists of 1854 were John Defrees and Erastus W. H. Ellis. The Fusionist state treasurer,
                    William R. Nofsinger, also received a portion of the stock.15
            
            Since the charter did not become operative until 1857, the shareholders had time enough to transfer
                    their holdings at a premium before the remainder of the payment became due. Michael Bright sold his
                    to James F. D. Lanier, formerly of 
                        Madison
                     but now a Wall Street financier, at an alleged profit of $14,000.16 Some of those who in 1854 had preached the evils of the Democracy six months
                    later co-operated with their erstwhile political enemies in the devious schemes afoot in the
                    legislature. The entire Fusion effort was not a conspiracy to gain the spoils of office, but the
                    opportunists of 
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 285-292; William W. Sweet, "Washington Charles
                            DePauw," Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1943), V, 244; John H. B. Nowland, Sketches of Prominent Citizens
                                of 1876 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1877), 180-182; Biographical History of Eminent and Self-made
                            Men, District 3, p. 9; William W. Woollen, Biographical and Historical
                                Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883), 540; Logan Esarey Newspaper Notes, MSS in Indiana University Library, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                  
                     15
                            Journal of the Bank Investigating Committee, 285-292.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 426. Years later, in a masterpiece of understatement, Hugh
                            McCulloch explained the role of these interim owners of the bank: "Their owners,
                            although not capitalists, were men of good standing. Some of them were prominent
                            politicians, who expected to be still more prominent; all were respectable citizens of the
                            State, and consequently they were not disposed to sell to non-residents, nor to any persons
                            who would not be able to make the Bank of the State a worthy successor of the State
                            Bank." Hugh McCulloch, Men and Measures of Half a Century (
                                New York
                            , 1888), 129.
               
                     1854, still fighting the Democrats at election time, were
                    showing their hand. They were elements of the still shaky new party, for the Fusionist effort was
                    becoming more than a crusade.
            The adjournment of the legislature brought to an end the political maneuvers in the general assembly,
                    but the organization of the parties continued throughout 1855. The session had revealed that the
                    politicians were not out of the troubled waters of the previous summer. The Democrats were busy
                    reorganizing their efforts for the coming presidential year while the Fusionists needed to maintain
                    the semblance of political organization they already possessed, meanwhile hoping that structure
                    could be given to the amorphous mass.
            During 1855 the state Democracy was not very active, since the elections were local in nature. At a
                    meeting in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in April, the party reiterated its claims of 1854, with particular emphasis given to
                    anti-Know Nothingism.17
            
            The Fusionists had more difficult problems. After the elections of 1854, the once harmonious elements
                    became suspicious of one another. The Free Soil elements had begun to "feel quite
                    offish" after Milton Gregg was nominated for state printer, while the temperance forces
                    generally lost interest once the new law was in the legislative mill. Under the guidance of Joseph
                    G. Marshall of 
                        Madison
                     the old Whigs had aspirations of their own for senatorial nominations. Finally, there
                    was the question of what would become of the Know Nothing movement. Among the leaders of 1854 who
                    were in the state capital attempting to weld the Fusion more firmly was Schuyler Colfax, the
                    congressman-elect from 
                        South Bend
                    . Some "‘outsiders,’" he reported from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , "‘ought to be expected to be preaching concord rather than
                    attempting to sow disunity.’"18 He was not sure that the
                    Know Nothings might not be the chief opposition of the Fusion. The ex-Whigs themselves, after the
                    initial success, felt that instead of remaining in the background they should come to the fore to
                    manage affairs for the Fusion.
            
               
                  17 Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party in
                        Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 185.
               
                  18
                        
                     St. Joseph Valley Register (
                            South Bend
                        ), January 18, 1855, cited in Willard H. Smith, Schuyler Colfax: The
                            Changing Fortunes of a Political Idol (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1952), 55. This is volume XXXIII of the Indiana Historical Collections. Orth to Colfax, 
                            Lafayette
                        , February 5, 1855, in Schauinger, "Letters of Godlove Orth, Hoosier
                        American," Indiana Magazine of History, XL, 62-63.
            
            
            In other states, early in 1855, the hitherto secret Know Nothing order was coming out in the open and
                    was entering the political arena as an out-and-out party. The president of the Indiana state council
                    seemed to feel that this was the course for the Hoosier Know Nothings to follow. He queried:
                    "Will it not be necessary to organize an open Native American party in our
                    State—as they are preparing to do in other States? Or what shall be done in the
                    future—The ‘fusion’ party is necessarily of temporary duration and
                    the Whig Party cannot be galvanized into existance again."19
            
            A few months later, however, Colfax gave his opinion as to the future course of the factions that
                    were not yet fully anchored to a solid foundation, when he wrote: "‘My path is
                    to harmonize, if possible, all the elements of opposition to the Adm'n on one ticket, if
                    they will consent to give us a ticket we can conscientiously support.’" Colfax
                    believed that if the antislavery and Know Nothing elements would not be able to work together, so
                    that two tickets became inevitable, it would then be time enough to choose one or the other horn of
                    the dilemma. His own choice was antislavery, "‘with the happy assurance that we
                    go into a minority again, which-ever horn we hang upon. There are strong hopes now, how-ever, that
                    [William] Seward, [John] Hale, [
                        Shelby
                    ] Cullom, [Samuel] 
                        Houston
                    , [Kenneth] Rayner & [William W.] 
                        Campbell
                     will all vote the same ticket in 1856. God Grant that the Democracy
                    may run Pierce again. That will help us.’"20
            
            In the correspondence of Colfax and Orth, it is possible to observe the differing tactics of these
                    two Fusionist leaders. Orth was more reluctant to sacrifice the Know Nothings to a combination that
                    might be more expedient, since he was a figure of some importance in the movement; he was prone to
                    consider the value of nativism as a political whip at all levels. On occasion he chided Colfax for
                    not keeping "Sam" alive and kicking in local elections. When South Bend Democrats
                    in the spring elections defeated the Fusionists, he reminded Colfax that in 
                        Lafayette
                     the lodge met twice a week and initiated from five to ten members at each conclave
                        
                  
                     19 Orth to Colfax, 
                                Lafayette
                            , February 5, 1855, in Schauinger, "Letters of Godlove Orth, Hoosier
                            American," Indiana Magazine of History, XL, 63.
                  
                     20 Colfax to Alfred Wheeler, April 5, 1855, Colfax Papers, Library of
                            Congress, cited in Willard H. Smith, "Schuyler Colfax and the Political Upheaval of
                            1854-1855," 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Review (
                        Cedar Rapids, Iowa
                     , 1914-), XXVIII (1941-1942),
                        397.
               
                     —and they had elected their ticket by more than two
                    to one. On another occasion, Orth wrote to his friend: "We must not lose sight of the fact,
                    that while there is a strong Anti-Slavery feeling in the State, there is also a strong American
                    feeling—and both must be preserved & united if possible, else both go by the
                        board."21
            
            In the same tenor, Orth seemed most clearly to define his position in the following statement:
                    "I am in favor of the formation of an open American Party—upon a platform of
                    principles acceptable to our people in Indiana—with a central organ here devoted
                    exclusively to our cause with open State & County conventions—presenting open
                    issues—and the order Kept as now, auxiliary to the Ant. Party—directing its
                    public movements."22
            
            Likewise in the nation the Know Nothings were experiencing political difficulties. Hoosiers watched
                    closely the developments in 
                        Virginia
                    . When Henry A. Wise defeated the Know Nothing candidate in the May elections, the
                    Indiana Democrats cheered loudly and held victory meetings in the state. But in order to maintain
                    the spirit of the order, the Know Nothings also held a meeting, on May 30, at the Bates House in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Among the speakers were the Fusionist leaders, Henry S. Lane, Daniel Mace, and David
                    Kilgore. The common cry was that "Sam" in Indiana was not dead in spite of the 
                        Virginia
                     election.23
            
            A week later, June 5, an Indiana delegation attended the national convention of the Know Nothings in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . After several minor clashes over the admission of certain delegations, the explosion
                    came when the platform was presented. The resolutions declared that the order should "abide
                    by and maintain the existing laws upon the subject of slavery, as a final and conclusive settlement
                    of that subject in spirit and in substance."24 The Northwest
                    immediately objected to this so-called "twelfth section" of the national council.
                    Indiana's delegation presented a written protest to the convention and thereupon cut itself
                    loose from the national body: "The 
                  
                     21 Orth to Colfax, 
                                Lafayette
                            , April 6 and June 23, 1855, in Schauinger, "Letters of Godlove Orth,
                            Hoosier American," Indiana Magazine of History, XL, 65, 66.
                  
                     22 Orth to Colfax, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , February 14, 1855, ibid., 64-65.
                  
                     23 Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party in
                            Indiana," ibid., XVIII, 187.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., 189; Indianapolis Daily Journal, June 15,
                        1855.
               
                     edicts of the National Council, however cononical they may be,
                    will be powerless to change those opinions or to reverse the action of the people of Indiana. Always
                    conservative in their opinions and actions; always mindful of the Compromises of the Constitution of
                    the 
                        United States
                    ; ardently devoted to the American Union, they will see with regret the promulgation of
                    a platform by this body which can have no other effect than to increase the fury of the
                    conflagration which the passage of the Kansas-Nebraska bill has lighted up."25 This resolution gained considerable publicity, as a result of which the names of the
                    Hoosier delegates became known. Indiana joined the seceders, consequently gaining the rather amazing
                    distinction of being known as the "
                        Massachusetts
                     of her section"—a novel role for any group of Hoosiers.26
            
            Back in Indiana, when the local councils took action on the stand of the Indiana delegation at 
                        Philadelphia
                    , the majority supported it; however there were a few marked exceptions, notably the
                    councils at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and 
                        Evansville
                    , both of which endorsed the 
                        Philadelphia
                     platform in its entirety. But the straightforward approach of the 
                  
                            Aurora
                         Standard, representing an Ohio River community, was
                    indicative of the general tone of acceptance of the delegation's action. Its editor
                    declared: "We are sorry to see such a rupture in the party; yet we cannot too highly
                    commend the firmness and faithfulness of the withdrawing members.—They have done right;
                    and even if their action in this matter should cause the down-fall of the party, they will receive
                    the warmest thanks of Northern men. The time has come when a firm stand must be made against the
                    aggressions of the South, and the American party may as well fall in the breach as any other. They
                    have given us an exhibition of fidelity and firmness never before exhibited by the members of any
                        party."27 This incident showed that some Hoosier Americans were
                    ready to become as sectionally minded as the more radical antislavery advocates. While theirs was
                    not a clean break completely 
                  
                     25
                            Indianapolis Daily Journal, June 20, 1855; Brand, "History of the
                            Know Nothing Party in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XVIII, 190-192.
                  
                     26 Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 192-193; M.
                            Evangeline Thomas, Nativism in the Old Northwest, 1850-1860 (
                                Washington
                            , 1936), 176-179.
                  
                     27 Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party in
                            Indiana" Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 193-195; Indianapolis Daily Journal, June 27, 1855.
               
                     separating all of the Indiana members from the South, still it
                    did serve to clear the path for full-fledged fusion: i.e., Republicanism in 1856.
            The Americans of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , at a meeting in council on July 5, 1855, passed a series of resolutions which carried
                    even further the protest against so-called slavery domination. They approved the course of the
                    northern seceders at 
                        Philadelphia
                     and at the same time expressed their sympathy for the misrepresented brethren of
                            
                  New York, New Jersey
               , and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     (whose delegates had remained in the convention). The council also called for
                    resistance to slavery extension in 
                        Kansas
                     "and all other territories." Finally, the resolutions declared that
                    the repeal of the Missouri Compromise had released the North from all obligation to enforce the
                    Fugitive Slave Act.28 Resolutions such as these reveal that the coalition
                    between the Americans and those of more pronounced antislavery sympathies was becoming more firmly
                    knit.
            The political discussions of the American party cleavage were still in the air when a state
                    antislavery convention was held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on June 27, 1855. George W. Julian, enemy of Know Nothingism because he thought it was
                    a slaveholders' conspiracy, delivered an address in which he opposed any co-operation with
                    the Americans. Immediately Stephen S. Harding, the abolitionist leader of 
                        Ripley County
                     who had not been able to resist some of the lure of nativism, and Rawson Vaile, one of
                    the editors of the Indianapolis Journal, defended the order. The
                    convention's attitude indicated rather clearly that its members were involved in Know
                    Nothingism as well as in the antislavery movement.29
            
            The next move in gathering accretions to the Americans and thereby increasing the party's
                    availability came in the meetings of the state council on July 11 and 12, prior to the July 13 mass
                    meeting of the Fusionists in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . By repeating these tactics of 1854 they hoped to inject their decisions into the
                    platform of the larger meeting. Although the Indiana Americans refused to abandon their separate
                    identity as a party, a reshuffling sublimated nativistic 
                  
                     28
                            Indianapolis Daily Journal, July 6, 1855. These resolutions were also
                            passed by the 
                                Lafayette
                             council on June 25. Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 193.
                  
                     29 Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 196; Indianapolis Daily Journal, July 2, 1855.
               
                     principles to other party goals. Their platform was extended to
                    include all native-born and naturalized citizens except Roman Catholics. One resolution, however,
                    favored an alteration of the constitutional provision which permitted aliens to vote after a
                    residence of six months and a declaration of intention to become a citizen. As to the disturbing
                    sectional question, the Americans favored the restoration of the Missouri Compromise and opposed
                    slavery extension. Finally, the party wanted no alterations of the recent prohibitory liquor law.
                    Thus the Indiana Americans repudiated many of the national features of the American party as a
                    whole. This move, however, was not completed without its attendant dissension, for at least fifteen
                    county delegations seceded and charges that the abolitionists had gained control of the party were
                    hurled in the press. The cleavages were observed happily by the Democrats, who hoped that this was
                    the first step in a complete disintegration of their opposition; yet the seceders could not be
                    classed as a large group, and the portion that chose to remain was the larger of the two.30
            
            At the mass meeting of the "people" of Indiana on July 13, the enthusiasms of 1854
                    were once again aroused. Many of the same speakers repeated their sentiments before the assemblage.
                    The principal address, however, was delivered by General Henry Wilson of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , who had led the seceders out of the Philadelphia American convention. The meeting
                    reaffirmed the antislavery planks of 1854 and went further to condemn the 
                        Kansas
                     policy of the national administration. The Fusion resolves were strikingly similar to
                    the Know Nothing program of the day before, for both supported a limited franchise and agreed on
                    slavery and temperance. The only marked difference was that the Know Nothings proscribed Roman
                    Catholics. The Fusionist stand approached the standards of the preconvention call which had been
                    sounded by Schuyler Colfax: "‘The watchword now is ACTION and
                    our battle cry, not that stereotyped demagogue catchword, "No North," but the
                    sterner truth, "A North and Northern Rights."’"31
            
            
               
                  30 Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party in
                        Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 198-200; Indianapolis Daily Journal, July 17, 1855.
               
                  31
                        
                     St. Joseph Valley Register (
                            South Bend
                        ), June 28, 1855, eited in Smith, "Schuyler Colfax and the Political
                        Upheaval of 1854-1855," 
                     Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Review, XXVIII, 395; Indianapolis Daily Journal, July 14, 1855;
                        Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party in
            
            
            In the 1855 local elections the Fusionists and Americans usually promoted combined tickets; only in
                    the southern seceding counties did the latter party present a ticket of its own. The sentiment for
                    further erasure of the slight barriers between the groups rose during the year. One newspaper editor
                    proclaimed that he would "rejoice to see the day when Republican, Know Nothing and Know
                    Something can stand openly and unitedly on a truly American Platform."32
            
            While the Americans and Fusionists were drawing closer together, the national Know Nothing party made
                    another effort at a meeting in 
                        Cincinnati
                     in November, 1855, to patch up the differences of June. The Indiana delegation
                    supported the majority report on a new platform which was a compromise between the extreme position
                    of the North and South. Noticeably absent, however, were the original seceders from 
                        Philadelphia
                    ; they were replaced by such 
                        New Albany
                     leaders as James C. Moody and Elias Thomasson, who had led the protests in June when
                    the local councils had acted upon the cleavages that had arisen in the national convention.33
            
            While progress had been made in the organization of the opposition to the Democrats during this off
                    year, it cannot be denied that instead of one party, there were now two open political
                    organizations. More important, perhaps, was the fact that the old liners knew where to find the
                    enemy: the "dark lantern" days were passing. The hope of the Democrats lay in
                    encouraging the factors dividing the opposition; at the same time, the latter was laboring to
                    nurture and protect the cohesive features of its promising organization.
            As the political events of the year passed one into the other, Hoosiers were reacting in various ways
                    to the growing sectional consciousness that was gradually eroding the common ground shared by North
                    and South. Sectional consciousness and attitudes toward the South took many forms. For 
                  Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 200-202. Michael
                            C. Garber of the Madison Courier in commenting on the action of the convention claimed that
                            "‘all that the Republican party asks now was contended for by the
                            Democratic party in 1849,’" Zimmerman, "Origin and Rise of the
                            Republican Party in Indiana," ibid., XIII, 248. July 13 was the
                            anniversary of the Ordinance of 1787.
                  
                     32
                            Indianapolis Daily Journal, July 11, 1855; Brand, "History of the
                            Know Nothing Party in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XVIII, 202-203.
                  
                     33 Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 204-206.
               
                     example, one Hoosier wrote to a fellow politician: "I
                    dislike very much ‘an organization resting on a sectional basis.’ …
                    Here lies the danger in the republican movement of the North. … I do not recognize the
                    necessity of abandoning all other questions and going to battle on a single idea… that
                    brings the North and South in direct and open antagonism with each other, leaving no common ground
                    for the two sections to stand on. Let the north and south once face each other on this naked
                    question, and I care not what men say there is danger to the Union. … If we form a party
                    exclusively on the Anti-Slavery issue we can have no hope of peace. There must be a triumph of one
                    section over another on a purely sectional issue, and when trouble comes there can be [no]
                        concession."34
            
            In a different vein, an Indiana congressman wrote to a friend: "Its really amusing to hear
                    these Southern gentlemen, day after day threatening a dissolution of the Union if we prohibit
                    Slavery in 
                        Kansas
                    . When they bluster this way, we always raise a loud laugh on our side of the House
                    & that makes them madder; & the cool persistence of the North, (the bolters
                    excepted) in voting week after week for their chosen candidate & making no proffers of
                    bargains with either wing of our opponents increases their wrath. They feel that there is a North.
                    …
            "I have not learned to love the Southerners any more since I came here, I can assure you.
                    Jefferson never wrote truer words than, when in his notes on 
                        Virginia
                    , he declared that the institution of slavery trained men to be tyrannical. With rare
                    & honorable exceptions, You can see the trait in a marked degree in the Southern members;
                    They do not argue—they demand. Instead of reasoning, threats are their staple; &
                    their manner is even more offensive than their language. With them, nothing is National but Slavery
                    & a man opposed to its extension denounced as not
                    National—‘Conservative policy’ means with them
                    Slavery—‘Standing by the Constitution’ is not to oppose the
                    aggressions of slavery—& fanatical, treasonable & all that, is their
                    favorite manner of speaking of Northern men who believe in carrying the Declaration of Independence
                    into effect in the Territories."35
            
            
               
                  34 Thomas C. Slaughter to Daniel D. Pratt, Corydon, September 7, 1855,
                        Pratt Collection, Indiana State Library.
               
                  35 Schuyler Colfax to Charles Heaton, 
                            Washington
                        , December 25, 1855, Colfax Letter Book, Northern Indiana Historical Society, 
                            South Bend
                        .
            
            
            Still another Hoosier Whig spoke of his southern brethren: "I admit… the South
                    has somewhat the advantage of the North,—that her Statesmen, as a general thing, have
                    been more able and more distinguished. But slavery has nothing to do with this, unless it be that,
                    in the South, Statesmen have more leisure to prepare themselves for their public duties."
                    As for the new party in the North, the orator continued: "They have no ideas about slavery and office. If they can only exterminate slavery and all
                    the national men of the North, then they'll have all the offices. That is
                    the summit of their ambition."36
            
            These were the observations of men who were opposed to the Democracy in 1855. If the incipient
                    Republican party were to carry the state in 1856, it would be necessary to transmute the
                    incongruities in men's thinking into a common frame of mind which in turn might become a
                    potent political bludgeon to wield against the South.
            In a sense the turn of events in Congress was the prelude to the political season of 1856. The
                    speakership fight of 1855-1856 revealed the organizational difficulties of the opponents of the
                    Democrats. The seemingly endless balloting which completely stopped the legislative mill caused
                    politicians and citizens alike to ponder the workability of the inchoate factionalism that had grown
                    out of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     fury of the year before. In 
                        Washington
                     the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     members from the Northwest favored nominating a candidate and faithfully supporting him
                    to the end. However, according to Schuyler Colfax, scarcely settled in the capital as a first-term
                    congressman, the Republicans of 
                  New York, Pennsylvania
               , and 
                        New England
                     "wanted to vote around a few ballots for those who concurred with them in all
                    their views, & who would then close in on the prominent Anti N. candidate. So we yielded
                    & there was no nomination."37
            
            After a week of fruitless balloting, the Indiana congress-man, along with many more anti-
                        Nebraska
                     supporters, became apprehensive: "I have no doubt but that our friends at home
                    are chagrined at the sneers of our opponents over our disorganized 
                  
                     36 Richard W. Thompson, The Political Aspects of the
                                Slavery Question (
                                Terre Haute
                            , 1855), 34-35, 57.
                  
                     37 Colfax to Heaton, 
                                Washington
                            , December 3, 1855, Colfax Letter Book, Northern Indiana Historical Society.
                            Heaton was an old friend of Colfax from 
                                South Bend
                            . Before he left home, Colfax had feared that the
                            "Republicans" could not succeed in electing a "backbone"
                            speaker.
               
                     condition and inability to concentrate on one man."
                    Yet, he continued, "I will stay here for three months before I will cast my ballot for any
                    man… whose back bone is at all doubtful. … So we … will stand out
                    as duty to the great Principle on which we were elected requires us to do."38
            
            Two Hoosiers refused to vote with the Colfax group when Nathaniel P. Banks of 
                        Massachusetts
                     became the candidate of the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     men: George G. Dunn, the 
                        Bedford
                     ex-Whig, and Harvey Scott of the 
                        Terre Haute
                     district, another devoted follower of Henry Clay's party. Dunn claimed that he
                    could better explain to his constituents a vote for Henry M. Fuller of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     than a ballot for Banks. The stand of Dunn illustrated that all anti-
                        Nebraska
                     men of Indiana did not agree.39 The united opposition of 1854 was
                    learning that principles were not enough to enable all the Fusionists who could co-operate at home
                    in the campaign to continue the course in Congress. The Democrats had watched the confusion of the
                    new party with apparent satisfaction. Supporting first William A. Richardson of 
                        Illinois
                     and finally William Aiken of 
                        South Carolina
                    , the Democracy had presented a solid front. During the balloting, the loyal partisan of
                    the Indiana Democrats, John L. Robinson, had warned English not to support a coalition candidate,
                    for "the moral exhibited to the country by the present condition of affairs in the House is
                    having a most happy effect. It would all be lost if any portion of our friends should help the
                    opposition out of their unenviable dilemma."40
            
            In the midst of this bewildering situation, the Indiana Democrats held their 1856 state convention on
                    the traditional January 8, the anniversary of the Battle of 
                        New Orleans
                    . They chose to make the Republican dilemma an issue. One of the resolutions declared in
                    favor of "the gallant band of Democrats in Congress" who had "so nobly
                    illustrated the 
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., December 11, 1855.
                  
                     39 Colfax explained that every prominent man in the party had appealed
                            to Dunn but in vain. "He was going up very rapidly, on account of his eloquence,
                            & his conciliatory speeches in our caucuses, but you can judge where he is going
                            now, except with the Loco Focos who of course admire his pluck." Ibid. Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early
                            Indiana, 243-244. After the 133rd ballot, Banks was finally elected, with Scott and
                            Dunn casting their final vote for Lewis D. Campbell, Know Nothing leader of 
                                Ohio
                            . Congressional Globe, 34th Cong., 1st Sess., 337.
                  
                     40 John L. Robinson to William H. English, 
                                Rushville
                            , December 23, 1855, English Collection, Indiana Historical Society
                        Library.
               
                     National character of the Democratic party," while the
                    "factions of the opposition, destitute of a common principle to bind them
                    together" were "disunited and discordant." The Indiana Democracy would
                    surrender nothing to a coalition with "factions opposed to civil and religious liberty, and
                    to the constitution of their country." Continuing the anti-Know Nothing drive of 1855,
                    another resolution favored the principles of the Compromise of 1850 as embodied in the
                    Kansas-Nebraska Act, and three others appealed to the foreign voters: they attacked secret
                    societies, the prohibitory temperance law of 1855, and proscription of the foreign element from
                    political organizations. The party nominated for governor Ashbel P. Willard, of 
                        New Albany
                    , a brilliant but erratic lawyer, whose intemperance gave his fellow politicians grave
                    concern. After John C. Walker of 
                        La Porte
                     had been chosen for lieutenant governor, it was discovered he was not yet old enough to
                    hold office; the party then selected an old-line Whig, Abram A. Hammond of 
                        Terre Haute
                    .41
            
            While the Democrats were planning their attack, the new Republicans found a ready-made and exciting
                    issue. Even before the Democratic state convention had met, the first "
                        Kansas
                    " meeting of the year was held in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , following appeals from 
                        Kansas
                     for aid. At the second meeting, in February, money was raised to buy Sharpe's
                    rifles; thus another cause was well launched.42
            
            In February the "Free Democrats" held a convention in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Judge John Wright of 
                        Logansport
                    , an old hand in the antislavery and temperance movements, introduced a resolution to
                    appoint a committee of seven to raise funds, equipment, and men to go to 
                        Kansas
                     to aid in the Free Soil struggle. The members of the committee had supported many
                    causes. Wright, James N. Ritchey, Ovid Butler, Alexander C. Stevenson, and Calvin Fletcher, all
                    respected and prosperous citizens, had supported temperance reform, suppression of vice and
                    gambling, agricultural societies, antislavery societies, John 
                  
                     41
                            Indianapolis Daily Journal, January 9, 1856; William E. Henry, State Platforms of the two Dominant Political Parties in Indiana,
                            1850-1900 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1902), 11-12; William R. Holloway, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                , a Historical and Statistical Sketch of the Railroad City (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1870), 106; Jacob P. Dunn, Indiana and Indianan (5 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), I, 568; Zimmerman, "Origin and Rise of the Republican Party in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XIII, 250.
                  
                     42
                            Indianapolis Daily Journal, January 5, and February 25, 1856; Zimmerman,
                            "Origin and Rise of the Republican Party in Indiana," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XIII, 254.
               
                     Freeman, and many other movements to uplift the morals of
                    Indiana. The remaining members of the committee, Henry S. Lane and James H. Lane, were not so
                    familiar. The former was a prominent leader in the Fusion of 1854; the latter, a supporter of the
                    Kansas-Nebraska Act, had declined to campaign again for Congress in 1854 and had emigrated to 
                        Kansas
                     in 1855. He had hoped to organize the Democratic party in that state, but after six
                    months the Hoosier Democrat was becoming a radical supporter of the free-state cause. Lane returned
                    East after being appointed senator from 
                        Kansas
                     should it be admitted as a state. During this period, the former congressman from
                    Indiana came home. Until the last of May, 1856, when he went back to 
                        Kansas
                    , Jim Lane was in the Northwest busily laying the cause of 
                        Kansas
                     before the people.43
            
            The meeting of the Free Democrats in 
                        Indianapolis
                     sought to unite the opposition to the old liners. Andrew L. Robinson, long a supporter
                    of the antislavery movement, was chairman. The decision of the convention to meet with the
                    People's party in May, not as Free Democrats but as members of the People's party,
                    brought one of the more radical elements of the Fusion into line. Implementing the 
                        Kansas
                     aid plan of the convention, Judge Wright published a letter which offered that
                    "persons wishing to emigrate to 
                        Kansas
                     as actual settlers and desirous of procuring Sharpe's rifles, can be supplied
                    in a few days by addressing me at 
                        Logansport
                    , or at the Bates House, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ."44 The action of the committee and the press stirred up
                    much 
                        Kansas
                     excitement so that by May 1, when Lane addressed the People's convention in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the Hoosiers were well informed of affairs in "bleeding 
                        Kansas
                    ." The slavery question was coming rapidly to the fore-ground again.
            
               
                  43
                        Indianapolis Daily Journal, February 22, 1856. Zimmerman, "Origin and
                        Rise of the Republican Party in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, XIII, 254-255. Wendell H. Stephenson, The Political Career of James
                            H. Lane (
                     Topeka, Kansas
                  , 1930), 68-71, and passim; this
                        is vol. III of the Kansas State Historical Society Publications.
               
                  44
                        Indianapolis Daily Journal, February 22, 1856; Zimmerman, "Origin and
                        Rise of the Republican Party in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, XIII, 254-255. That there were those interested in emigrating to 
                            Kansas
                         seems very probable. By 1856 the Northwest was mature enough to send its people to
                        the newer West, and Indiana contributed a share in the settlement of 
                            Kansas
                        . See William O. Lynch, "The Flow of Colonists to and from Indiana Before
                        the Civil War," ibid., XI (1915), 5; according to the Eighth Census of the 
                                United States
                            , 1860, population, 166, 616, 9,945 residents of 
                            Kansas
                         had been born in Indiana.
            
            
            Meanwhile, the Americans were dutifully attempting to sublimate the radicalism of the party. The
                    so-called "twelfth section" men who were in accord with the seceders of 1855 were
                    gaining strength in the state. Among the delegates who appeared in the 
                        Philadelphia
                     convention on February 18, 1856, were the old Whig leader Solomon Meredith; William
                    Sheets, who had succeeded Orth as president of the state council of the Know Nothings; and A. M.
                    Phelps of 
                        Warrick County
                    . After the meeting had adjourned, the national council reorganized as a nominating
                    convention. The wrangle over the place of the slavery issue in the party's policy again
                    brought forth a secession movement, just as it had in 1855. This time, however, the Indiana
                    delegates remained, while almost all those from the other states of the Northwest trooped out of the
                        hall.45
            
            This split further weakened the Americans, and the groundwork was firmly laid for a North and a South
                    American party. In the former movement the Indiana Americans were uninterested, while in the latter
                    the old line Whigs of the state found one last refuge. It was thus a question whether the Americans
                    would co-operate with the People's party of Indiana or maintain a separate identity. One
                    political fact, however, the politicians could not ignore: the American party was becoming
                    sectionalized within the state. The old Whigs of the lower 
                        Wabash
                     and the Ohio River with a particular center in 
                        New Albany
                     were far apart in their political views from the Whigs of the northern sections. The
                    traditional Whig areas in the southern part of the state, needed so badly to offset the back country
                    Democratic strongholds south of the National Road, were determined to maintain their identity and
                    unite with the Whigs of 
                        Kentucky
                     and the Ohio River region.
            An executive committee of the American party held a preliminary meeting in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in April and continued to wrangle on the ticklish question of co-operation with the
                    People's party at the state level. After much disagreement, a circular was issued by the
                    president, William Sheets, suggesting that members of the order attend the convention of the
                    People's party. Repeating the attitude of the party in 
                  
                     45
                            Indianapolis Daily Journal, February 20, 23, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, and March
                            3, 1856; Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 267-269; Thomas, Nativism
                                in the Old Northwest, 1850-1860, pp. 203-204.
               
                     1854, he declared that the true friends of Americanism were
                    uncompromisingly opposed to the corrupt national administration; he also urged the restoration of
                    the Missouri Compromise line.46
            
            When the People's convention met,47 some of the confusion and spirit of
                    the preceding years had worn off. A huge crowd gathered to hear Henry S. Lane, president of the
                    convention, declare that slavery extension was the first great national issue to be settled; Jim
                    Lane described conditions in 
                        Kansas
                     as he had seen them. The question of appointing delegates to the Philadelphia
                    Republican convention aroused brief turmoil when some Americans claimed that the meeting could not
                    elect delegates because it was not wholly a Republican convention. One of the less faithful
                    Americans, however, declared that Americanism could wait but the 
                        Kansas
                     question could not. A compromise was arranged whereby six delegates-at-large and three
                    from each district were to be sent to 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Only the more vociferous and determined Americans protested; many must have silently
                    acquiesced.
            The next test of the framework of the embryonic Hoosier Republican party was the organization of the
                    convention and the selection of officers and candidates. The Whigs had made inroads on their
                    competitors in the party since 1854, and in the convention appointments the anti-Nebraska Democrats
                    received a relatively small share of posts; however, as candidates the bolters from the Democracy
                    seemed to have considerably more to offer in the way of availability. The choice for governor was
                    Oliver P. Morton, an anti-Nebraska Democrat from 
                        Wayne County
                    ; William R. Nofsinger, who had been elected state treasurer in 1854 on the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     platform, was also nominated; and the wily Erastus W. H. Ellis, who commanded a large
                    influence in northern Indiana, completed the list of former Democrats on the state ticket. The sole
                    American candidate was John W. Dawson of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Know Nothing editor.
            The next point of possible conflict was the platform, which reflected the attempt of the
                    People's party to broaden 
                  
                     46
                            Indianapolis Daily Journal, April 3, 1856; Brand, "History of the
                            Know Nothing Party in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XVIII, 272.
                  
                     47 For a discussion of this convention see Zimmerman, "Origin
                            and Rise of the Republican Party in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XIII, 257-260.
               
                     its appeal. As a party of opposition, its platform attacked
                    those in power, with the exception of its support of the temperance law, which was of the
                    Fusion's own making. The platform of 1856 carried the extension issue one step further when
                    it opposed the admission of any more slave states out of territories "secured to freedom by
                    the Missouri Compromise" and then added the phrase, "or otherwise." To
                    accommodate the Americans, a resolution was formulated that favored "naturalization laws of
                    Congress with five years' probation, and that the right of suffrage should accompany and
                    not pre-cede naturalization."48
            
            Since the states of the Northwest were all testing major political creations of 1854, the platforms
                    of 
                        Ohio
                     and Illinois Republicans offer interesting comparisons with Indiana's. All
                    three states had much in common geographically, socially, and economically so that the differences
                    among them are quite apparent. The resolutions of the 
                        Illinois
                     convention resembled very closely those of Indiana, with one exception: the 
                        Illinois
                     leaders were ready to make definite overtures to those who had previously been
                    discouraged. One resolution declared, "We will proscribe no one by legislation or otherwise
                    on account of religious opinions, or in consequence of place of birth." The Ohio
                    Republicans, however, outdid their neighbors to the west. The general tenor of their platform was
                    much more vindictive and filled with phrases of bitter hatred for the Democracy. It bluntly declared
                    that all territories should be free. As to the problem of support, the Ohio Republicans invited the
                    "cordial support of all citizens, whether of native or foreign birth."49
            
            These platforms show that the state parties expressed a considerable degree of unanimity of
                    principle, if not of mode of expression. The significant difference was in the treatment of the
                    foreign vote. The Indiana People's party, in order to appeal to the nativists, supported a
                    stringent naturalization measure; its neighbors appealed directly to the foreign voter. Indiana did
                    not have as large a foreign population as did its neighbors; there was no concentrated German
                    settlement to 
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., 259.
                  
                     49 The 
                                Illinois
                             platform is in Green B. Raum, History of Illinois
                            Republicanism (
                                Chicago
                            , 1900), 28. For the 
                                Ohio
                             platform see Joseph P. Smith, History of the Republican Party in 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1898), I, 61-62.
               
                     compare with 
                        Cincinnati
                     or 
                        Chicago
                    . Yet the Indiana Democrats apparently felt it was worthwhile to try to catch the German
                    vote in the party net.
            Reactions to the People's convention varied. The "South" Americans refused
                    to stand by the nomination and a plat-form that was so strongly "Republican" in
                    character. One American editor blamed William Sheets, the president of the state council, for the
                    failure of the party. He bitterly growled: "The officiating head of the American party in
                    Indiana is rotten to the core! He has sold us to our enemies."50 Such
                    reports as these, however, were exceptional.
            On the other hand, to such radicals as George W. Julian, the party had not gone far enough in its
                    denunciations. Julian was unable to find a single true antislavery man on the whole ticket. He
                    called the People's party a "combination of weaknesses, instead of a union of
                        forces."51 One of Julian's friends, Daniel Worth,
                    despondently described the 
                        Indianapolis
                     convention thus: "A poor miserable truckling concern without either soul or
                    body. … You will mark the fact that our wise-acres at 
                        Indianapolis
                     ignored even the name of Republican as well as all antislavery principle. This was done
                    for the benefit of Knownothings and old fossil Whigs who have just emanated from their old political
                    graves where they have been ‘per-severing to rot,’ and are now ready to take
                    office at the hands of antislavery men provided they are not compelled to take more antislavery than
                    they might safely take of arsenic."52 The old
                    abolitionists who sought a political home among the factions of the new party were sorely
                    disappointed.
            The People's convention, however, was antislavery enough in sentiment to frighten away the
                    more conservative elements of the Democratic opposition. The friends of William H. English felt that
                    the stand of the party assured them of success in the coming canvass. One wrote confidently,
                    "I see by the proceedings of the peoples Convention that Black Republicanism was
                    triumphant, no elector was appointed for this District. Gregg [the local American editor] has been
                    unhorsed, I think the whole affair a miserable abortion, the 
                  
                     50
                            
                        
                                    Vevay
                                 Reveille quoted in Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party
                            in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 275.
                  
                     51 George W. Julian, Political Recollections,
                            1840-1872 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 155.
                  
                     52 "A Letter of Daniel Worth to George W. Julian and Other
                            Documents," ed. Grace Julian Clarke, Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XXVI (1930), 153-154,
               
                     policy of nominating a broken down set of renegad Democrats,
                    because they love niggers more than white folks will not win in Indiana. we Shall beat the whole
                    tickett by thousands."53
            
            The tremendous importance attached to national questions in the progress of the state party brought
                    the question of the national Republican conventions into sharp focus. The first meeting of the
                    Republicans was held in 
                        Pittsburgh
                     in February. The role of the Hoosiers in this initial assembly is rather vague.
                    According to the various writings of George W. Julian, he played an important role. He did serve as
                    chairman of the committee on organization and was one of the vice-presidents. William Grose of 
                        Henry County
                     was appointed to the executive committee, and Oliver P. Morton was a member of the
                    resolutions committee. Julian explained later that the Fusion had "subordinated every
                    question of principle to its desire for political success. The situation was most
                        humiliating."54 This preliminary meeting, which served primarily to
                    formulate more solid propositions upon which a permanent organization could be established, was an
                    impetus to the 
                        Philadelphia
                     convention in June.
            Henry S. Lane was elected president of the second convention. In his address the former Whig extolled
                    the virtues of Henry Clay. Had the Kentuckian been alive, he would have been leading the Republican
                    party, declared Lane. The disunion cry, he claimed, came from 
                        South Carolina
                     "unhung" nullifiers who still had the halter of General Andrew
                    Jackson about their necks. Caleb Smith, another ex-Whig, formerly of Indiana but at this time a
                    resident of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , also spoke. This retired legislator called the Republican party the true national
                    party. He was careful to state that his party would not interfere where slavery already existed, yet
                    since the institution was always aggressive, the Republicans were the only party that would maintain
                    the principles of freedom. These 
                  
                     53 J. A. Cravens to W. H. English, Hardensburg, May 9, 1856, English
                            Collection, Indiana Historical Society Library.
                  
                     54 George W. Julian, "The First Republican National
                            Convention," American Historical Review (
                                New York
                            , 1895-), IV (1898-1899), 314 318; Proceedings of the First Three
                                Republican National Conventions of 1856, 1860, and 1864 (
                                Minneapolis
                            , 1893), 7-14. For local newspaper descriptions of convention proceedings see
                                Indianapolis Daily Journal, February 25 and 26, 1856; the account of
                            February 25 reports an "effective speech" by Julian. See also Monks, Courts and Lawyers of Indiana, I, 342; Hazzard's
                                History of 
                                    Henry County
                                , Indiana, I, 138; Grose had been an elector for Pierce in 1852 and had
                            been a loyal Democrat until the excitement of 1854.
               
                     two Hoosiers permitted the speakers who followed them to
                    express more radical views. One was Owen Lovejoy of 
                        Illinois
                    , who spoke of the divine inspiration of the Declaration of Independence and its mission
                    in America. Henry Wilson of 
                        Massachusetts
                     was allowed to shout: "Sir, our object is to overthrow the Slave Power of the
                    country, now organized in the Democratic party of the country."55
            
            It is interesting and significant to compare the list of delegates selected at 
                        Indianapolis
                     to attend the 
                        Philadelphia
                     convention with the list of men who answered the roll call of the credentials committee
                    at the convention. The first and second districts, which were strongholds of the Americans, were
                    represented at 
                        Philadelphia
                     by Hoosiers who lived out-side these constituencies; apparently those appointed did not
                    attend. There were also substitutions in the seventh and eighth congressional districts. The
                    replacements were often men of prominence from other areas in the state.
            The Indiana delegation was indicative of a mature party leadership.55 There was a
                    sprinkling of editor-politicians: William G. Terrell of 
                        Lafayette
                    , an ardent ex-Whig; Thomas H. Bringhurst, Whig editor of the Logansport
                        Journal; Charles D. Murray of 
                        Kokomo
                    , another Whig editor; and John Defrees, a member of the platform committee, the leader
                    of the state press as well as of the People's party. The lone ex-Democrat was the Bright
                    antagonist, Michael C. Garber of the Madison Courier.
            Another significant group was made up of businessmen—merchants, bankers, and railroad
                    promoters. Defrees was connected with the Central Bank at this time. Henry S. Lane 
                  
                     55
                            Proceedings of the First Three Republican Conventions, 31, and pp. 15-82
                            for the entire convention report; Indianapolis Daily Journal, June 19, 20,
                            21, and 23, 1856, for local report of convention proceedings; see also ibid., June 4, 1856, for an account of Smith's activities in the Ohio
                            Republican convention.
                  
                     56 The process of identification of these various delegates is a
                            difficult one, but it has been possible to locate scattered bits of information which seem
                            to clarify the general nature of the entire delegation. The list of delegates is printed in
                                Proceedings of the First Three Republican Conventions, 41. For
                            biographical information see: Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches of
                                Early Indiana, 482, 485-486, 546, 556-558; Dunn, Indiana and
                            Indianans, II, 995-996; III, 1404; Monks, Courts and Lawyers of
                            Indiana, III, 1144. Nowland, Sketches of Prominent Citizens of 1876,
                            pp. 170-171; Biographical History of Eminent and Self-made Men. District
                            11, p. 6; District 6, p. 23; District 7, p. 109; District 8, pp. 30-31; District 10, p. 12;
                            District 12, pp. 33-34. Hazzard's History of 
                                    Henry County
                                , Indiana, I, 144; Indiana State Gazeteer and Business
                                Directory, for 1862 and 1863 (3rd ed.; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1862, 1863), 256; Indianapolis Daily Journal, June 19 and
                            23, 1856.
               
                     of 
                        Crawfordsville
                     was a banker with his father-in-law, Isaac Elston. Daniel R. Bearss of Peru, a Henry
                    Clay Whig, was a retired mercantilist, one of the wealthiest men in the county. Benjamin F. Claypool
                    of 
                        Fayette County
                     was president of the state bank in 
                        Connersville
                    . Jacob B. Julian of 
                        Centerville
                     was a sometime banker and railroad promoter. 
                        Henry County
                     sent Martin L. Bundy, a wealthy citizen. From 
                        Terre Haute
                     came L. A. Burnett, a leather and hide dealer. Finally, Samuel Hanna was a delegate
                    from the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     district. This Allen County Whig was a frontier capitalist and one of the wealthiest
                    men in Indiana. Hanna had begun as an Indian trader and was president of the Fort Wayne and Chicago
                    railroad.
            A few of the ardent exponents of the various isms were also represented, but they were in the
                    minority. One of these was Jonathan W. Gordon of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , whose law practice was such that it had given him ample time to edit the Temperance Chart, a publication appearing under the patron-age of the Sons of Temperance.
                    James Ritchey of 
                        Franklin County
                    , who was named to the national executive committee, was another reformer devoted to
                    many causes. Judge William Peaslee of 
                        Shelbyville
                     had been an original member of the Know Nothings in the "dark
                    lantern" stage.
            Taken as a whole the membership indicated Whig entry into the leadership of the National Republicans
                    of Indiana. The respected and prosperous of the now defunct party were gaining control of the new
                    organization. For the most part it was a conservative leadership, replacing the more radical
                    elements that had rushed into the Fusion in 1854. This Whig group, however, did not include the old
                    Whigs of the river counties but came rather from the northern and central sections of the state, the
                    areas in which significant economic and social change was taking place in the fifties. These
                    Hoosiers, who were taking strides to secure political advantage, were to determine the character of
                    the future Republican party of Indiana.
            With the nomination of John C. Fremont, the Indiana delegation, Republican in fact if not in name,
                    returned home to stump the state in the new party's first national campaign. Back in
                    Indiana, as a result of the problem of the course of the Americans, the important political question
                    was the matter of support. Before the convention met in 
                        Philadelphia
                    ,  John Defrees, chairman of the state central
                    committee, called for a ratification meeting to be held at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on July 15, 1856. The Americans, however, decided to await the results of the
                    People's convention before meeting; consequently they called their gathering for July 16.
                    The decision was of some significance since it seemed to mean that no longer were the Know Nothings,
                    now Americans, attempting to set the pattern for the Fusionists.57
            
            The People's convention on July 15 was little more than a ratification meeting. Henry S.
                    Lane and Stephen S. Harding were among the speakers. The afternoon program included a few 
                        Kansas
                     speeches as well as a parade of young men attired as "Border
                    Ruffians" and "Buford's Thieves."58
            
            By the time of their state convention on July 16 the Americans had been reduced largely to the
                    position of an irreconcilable minority of the old Whig party. The seceders of the conventions of the
                    previous year had brought many of the Indiana Americans into the People's party; those left
                    behind were chiefly from southern Indiana. An important leader of the party in Indiana was Richard
                    W. Thompson, who was made permanent chairman of the state party. In June, Humphrey Marshall of 
                        Kentucky
                     had written Thompson: "‘We must have a separate
                    Fillmore ticket in Indiana. You must go to the Convention—and you must head the movement
                    and go on the Electoral ticket—there is no time for trifling… we
                        must not fuse.’"59
            
            The activities of Dick Thompson were reported to the People's chieftain, Henry Lane, by one
                    of his correspondents: "‘We are peculiarly situated here [
                        Terre Haute
                    ]. R. W. Thompson is using extraordinary means to prevent an organization upon 
                        Fremont
                    . … He maintains that the Planter has 
                  
                     57
                            Indianapolis Daily Journal, June 17, 1856; Zimmerman, "Origin and
                            Rise of the Republican Party in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XIII, 262-263, 265; Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party in
                            Indiana," ibid., XVIII, 276-277.
                  
                     58
                            Indianapolis Daily Journal, July 16, 1856; Holloway, 
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                            , 106-107; Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 277; Zimmerman, "Origin and
                            Rise of the Republican Party in Indiana," ibid., 263.
                  
                     59 Humphrey Marshall to Thompson, June 15, 1856, quoted in Charles
                            Roll, Colonel Dick Thompson: The Persistent Whig (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1948), 151; this is vol. XXX of the Indiana Historical Collections. For an ac-count of the proceedings see Indianapolis
                                Daily Journal, July 17 and 18, 1856. Among the committeemen was George G. Dunn, who
                            after the speakership fight in the House of Representatives was back with the
                            irreconcilables; his fusion was at an end.
               
                     the same right to occupy the territories with his slaves that
                    the northern farmer has with his horses. Thompson is making desperate exertions to carry his points,
                    he does what he has seldom done before; he is on the streets and at the corners in season and out of
                    season, trying to inveigh old Whigs into his scheme of resuscitating the Whig party."60
            
            The convention itself was not particularly impressive as compared with the People's meeting
                    of the day before. Only about one-fourth of the counties were represented, for the Americans had
                    become a sectional party within the state with the chief centers in 
                  New Albany, Jeffersonville,
                            Terre Haute
               , and 
                        Vevay
                    . The Democratic pocket and the American pocket were almost the same. A last attempt to
                    endorse 
                        Fremont
                     was put down hurriedly, and the support of the state ticket was left open, a policy
                    which amounted to a handicap for Morton and the People's party. With the conclusion of the
                    meeting the battle lines of the coming presidential campaign were drawn: the Democracy, with
                    Buchanan, had divided opposition. After the convention, Thompson labored to organize Fillmore clubs
                    over the state; only one of these, at 
                        Lafayette
                    , was north of the National Road. But the Americans lost more than they gained in press
                    support. Perhaps the greatest blow was the defection of John W. Dawson of the 
                  
                            Fort Wayne
                         Times, who was also a candidate on the state People's ticket.61
            
            The campaign during the summer and fall of 1856 was a test of the new People's party. No
                    longer an impetuous up-start nor a purely offensive party, it was now a political organization which
                    was beginning to operate as a responsible group and which had to resort also to defensive actions in
                    the rough and tumble tactics of the canvass. At the state level and in Congress its leaders had the
                    opportunity to carry out the demands and promises of 1854.
            In the 
                        Kansas
                     situation the People's party in Indiana and the Republicans in the nation had
                    a firebrand that was capable of igniting men's emotions. Jim Lane, who had promised to
                    carry the truth to every corner of the North, dramatically rushed back to 
                        Kansas
                     just before the campaign reached fever pitch. At the end of May, he announced to the
                    electors of Indiana, "‘You have heard the late thrilling news 
                  
                     60 J. O. Jones to Henry S. Lane, June 25, 1856, quoted in Roll, Colonel Dick Thompson, 151-152.
                  
                     61 Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 276-279,
                        280-281.
               
                     from 
                        Kansas
                    . I am hastening there, then, either to relieve, or perish with that gallant bleeding
                        people."62 Whereupon he cancelled a series of speaking engagements
                    that would have taken him to many corners of the state.
            The numerous letters and dispatches from 
                        Kansas
                     that appeared in the press and the speeches of those who had recently returned served
                    to arouse the citizens. Editors gave the latest happenings high priority. Wheeler in 
                        South Bend
                     reported to Colfax: "The subscribers were anxious for Kansas News, and I gave
                    them Kansas news. Kansas news would spoil by laying over; Day's Speech would
                        not."63 Schuyler Colfax's wife was the happy recipient of
                    "Governor Robin-sons Polka," the gift of her husband's political ally,
                    Nathaniel P. Banks. She commented that the governor was then "suffering imprisonment in 
                        Kansas
                     at the hands of those vile despots, the border ruffians, for the crime of loving
                    Freedom better than Slavery."64 In the Whitewater
                    Valley an even more powerful impact of the 
                        Kansas
                     affairs was felt, for the news came that a member of a party of Hoosiers who had gone
                    to 
                        Kansas
                     had been killed in an attack.65
            
            The political capital in firing the emotions of those who were already enlisted in the ranks of the
                    People's party was one matter, but when the "fagenders" began to fall
                    under the spell of the 
                        Kansas
                     dispatches, the Democracy began to worry. One of Governor Wright's political
                    friends hoped the excitement would end. "The 
                        Kansas
                     troubles afford the theme for about all the declamation of the opposition, and at this
                    moment they effect the creation of some prejudice to our injury. May we not reasonably hope for a
                    conclusion of those disturbances soon?" Then the Democrat expressed an interesting point of
                    view that was not exactly high doctrine in Democratic circles. He wrote: "Anything that
                    Congress would with propriety do ought to be done—Confidence once restored, that 
                        Kansas
                     will probably be a free-state, and all is well with the Democracy, 
                  
                     62 Stephenson, The Political Career of General James H.
                                Lane, 71.
                  
                     63 A. L. Wheeler to Schuyler Colfax, 
                                South Bend
                            , June 15, 1856, Colfax Papers, Indiana University Library, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                  
                     64 Evelyn Colfax to May Heaton, 
                                Washington
                            , August 8, 1856, Col-fax Letter Book, Northern Indiana Historical Society.
                  
                     65
                            
                        
                                    Richmond
                                 Palladium, Extra, August 29, 1856, cited in Bernhard Knollenberg,
                            "Pioneer Sketches of the Upper Whitewater Valley,"
                            Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1895-), XV (1945), 134.
               
                     for the people, I am persuaded would gladly see this constant
                    agitation of the subject of slavery driven out of the Halls of Congress."‘66
            
            The campaign centered about the sectional issue, and with the cry of "Black
                    Republicanism" ringing in their ears, the excitement of the people grew as the October
                    state election day approached. The Democrats made the most of the American-People's party
                    split as well as of the fact that most Hoosiers hated the Negro. In one Democratic neighborhood, in 
                        Dubois County
                    , it was reported that several young ladies of the community, dressed all in white,
                    paraded through the streets carrying a banner, "‘Fathers, save us from nigger
                        husbands!’"67 Less dramatically but with effective
                    results, the Democrats stressed the theme that the Black Republicans were plotting abolition and the
                    bestowal of full social and political rights upon the Negro. The brunt of the state campaign was
                    borne by Oliver P. Morton, an anti-Nebraska Democrat. He was rather evenly matched on the stump with
                    Ashbel P. Willard, who was a brilliant speaker.68
            
            The results of the local campaign were indicative of the events to come in the November elections.
                    Willard carried the state by almost 5,000 votes. Examination of the results in the congressional
                    districts reveals the sectionalism of the state. Morton carried the Whitewater
                    valley and the northern districts. The congressional election resulted in a sizeable
                    in-crease in the number of Democratic victories. Indiana now had six of the old liners back in
                    Congress, while the People's party had lost four seats.69
            
            The People's party men speculated on the results and the possibilities of victory in
                    November. Schuyler Colfax was 
                  
                     66 A. B. Conduitt to Joseph A. Wright, 
                                Mooresville
                            , June 23, 1856, Wright Papers, Indiana State Library.
                  
                     67 Julius A. Lemcke, Reminiscences of an Indianian (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1905), 196.
                  
                     68 An English visitor who heard Willard in 
                                Indianapolis
                             reported that he spoke for almost two hours and never tripped in a sentence or
                            "faltered with a single word." Furthermore, at 120 feet, the Englishman
                            heard every word. Frederick J. Jobson, America, and American Methodism (
                                New York
                            , 1857), 117-119. William D. Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton
                            (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1899), I, 47-58.
                  
                     69
                            Tribune Almanac for 1857, pp. 57-59. Indiana Documentary
                                Journal, 1857, II, 608. The People's party claimed that the Americans had
                            voted for Willard; however, the later election in November seemed to indicate that the
                            Hoosier Americans had generally supported Morton, but that their combined support was not
                            enough to defeat the New Albany Democrat. Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party
                            in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 291-292.
               
                     not very optimistic. The only hope of winning was for 
                        Fremont
                     to equal Morton's vote. With this goal in mind, the party members were
                    canvassing between elections to get the necessary additional 6,000 votes for 
                        Fremont
                    . The 
                        South Bend
                     congressman did not raise the cry of desertion on the part of the Americans in the
                    state campaign. He realistically observed: "Many think that in the South half of the State
                    a half of the Fillmore men voted for Willard. If this were so, we could rely on carrying the State;
                    but I am satisfied that about 10,000 of the 15,000 Fillmore men there voted with us. So that their
                    going for their own Prest will injure us net just … about 5,000. The odds are therefore
                    decidedly agst. us, but still we shall work. I spent this week in the most benighted
                    region—South Western Ind."70
            
            Fillmore men were a thorn in the side of the People's party, and the Democrats, as the
                    canvass grew more exciting, did not commit any errors that might help close the gap. The Democratic
                    press became friendly to the Americans; the latter also had trouble within their ranks, for three of
                    their state electors deserted the party. Realizing their hopeless position, the Fillmore national
                    leaders held out the possibility that the election would be thrown into the House of
                    Representatives, where Fillmore then would be the compromise choice; consequently an attempt was
                    made to withdraw the ticket in Indiana. J. R. Thompson of 
                        New York
                     came to the Indiana Americans to present his plan; however Dick Thompson re-fused to
                    comply with the request. When rumors spread that their ticket had been withdrawn, the Americans
                    issued an appeal to the Republicans to support Fillmore because chances of restoration of the
                    Missouri Compromise line would be greater under a Fillmore administration: "a
                    recommendation from him would have weight, and receive consideration from members of Congress
                    representing all portions of the Union."71
            
            This was one possibility. There were others. A few days before the election, the People's
                    party was not willing to sacrifice anything to the Americans. Schuyler Colfax reported the proposals
                    of the Americans. His attitude toward them was 
                  
                     70 Schuyler Colfax to John D. Defrees, 
                                Greencastle
                            , October 27, 1856, Colfax Letter Book, Northern Indiana Historical Society.
                  
                     71
                            Indianapolis Daily Journal, December 15, 1856; see also ibid., July 31, 1856; Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 281, 286,
                        287-288.
               
                     interesting: "The Fillmore Corn. were here Thursday
                    & Friday—some of them wanting to save the State—others not. They
                    wanted us to take off five of our electors—put on five Fillmore men & both
                    parties to go for this ticket 8 
                        Fremont
                     and five Fillmore. We were satisfied that we should be weaker with this Fusion than
                    without—as it would alienate all the foreign vote & would not bring more than
                    half the Fillmore vote to us at any rate. We told them we had a future before us & they had
                    not. And our Committee is determined to do nothing to tend to give them power & position. If
                    they want to save the State, they should vote our ticket as practical men, as it is the only one
                    that stands any chance agst Buchanan.
            "They are getting alarmed in Ky for fear Fillmore will not carry it. Our electoral ticket
                    will poll 6 to 8,000 votes, perhaps more, mainly from their side. We offer with C. M. Clays consent
                    that if they will withdraw their ticket here, we will withdraw ours there, & carry both
                    states agst Buchanan. But they have been fighting 
                        Fremont
                     so hard they hate to do it, & will not without giving them electors, which we
                    will not do. If we had cut loose from them entirely last May we should have been stronger now. And
                        now we intend having a victory or a defeat."72
            
            Opposing all the deals and trades was Richard W. Thompson. There were probably many more who felt the
                    same determination to remain Whig to the end. As a result, the Americans went into the election as a
                    battered, but still sizeable, group who kept the opposition to the Democracy divided.73
            
            
               
                  72 Schuyler Colfax to John D. Defrees, 
                            Greencastle
                        , October 27, 1856, Colfax Letter Book, Northern Indiana Historical Society.
               
                  73 For many years a belief existed in Indiana that Dick Thompson was paid
                        to keep the American ticket in the field. Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party in
                        Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 282n, mentioned the
                        charges but claimed that no evidence was ever found to support these claims. The fact that Jesse
                        Bright was vigorously supporting Thompson in the claim against the government during the summer
                        of 1856 aided the rumors of a plot; see Julian, Political Recollections,
                        155-156. From a purely circumstantial point of view, the events do raise several questions.
                        Thompson had been employed by the Menominee to recover damages incurred in their removal to the
                        West. The Hoosier lawyer won the case. By a prior agreement Thompson was to receive the
                        customary fee of one-third of the award; his share of the $242,000 compensation was
                        thus more than $80,000. George Manypenny, the Indian commissioner, protested and
                        payment was halted. The resulting private bill in Congress, allowing Thompson one-half the
                        amount due, was pushed aside for a long time. In the summer of 1856, Jesse Bright championed
                        Thompson's claim in the Senate. Bright was on the floor more during the summer of 1856
                        than at any previous time in his career,
            
            
            When the November returns were in, the Hoosier Democracy was back in power. Although not a complete
                    rout, it was a comfortable victory. Buchanan received 118,670 votes, while 
                        Fremont
                     gathered 94,375. The Americans trailed with 22,386.74
            
            Political behavior is difficult to gauge but several conclusions seem to have a degree of validity.
                    First, even if there had been no American party, the Democrats would have won, since the combined
                    strength of 
                        Fremont
                     and Fillmore would not have been enough to overturn the Buchanan forces in the state.
            Second, the People's party apparently failed to gain the Whig vote completely. George Julian
                    charged that along with the Know Nothing refusal to unite, there was the inability to rally the
                    Whigs. Those who had not floated into the American party seem to have preferred Buchanan to 
                        Fremont
                    . One ex-Whig, for example, resented the fact that his anti-Nebraska Democrat
                    congressman stuffed a mailbag "full of F [rancis] P. Blairs abolitionism
                    to the formerly Whigs at and in the vicinity. …
            "I am unable to see the consistency of a Whig of 52 now affiliatiating with black republicanism, and cannot account for it on any hypothesis than dishonesty then or now.
            "As to Knownothingism, it aims such a vital thrust at the democratic principle or capacity
                    of the people for Self government that in my opinion no honest man can for a moment entertain its
                        policy."76
            
            
               and each time it was to support Thompson's private bill. Douglas and Toombs both
                        aided the cause. Roll, Colonel Dick Thompson, 119-122. The final vote in the
                        Senate was eighteen to sixteen to approve the claim. Congressional Globe, 34th
                        Cong., 1st Sess., 1984, and passim. During the campaign the rumor circulated
                        that a bargain had been made between Bright and Thompson. One of the reports from John Hunt to
                        Governor Wright suggests that the two men were skeptical themselves. "Your R. W.
                        Thompson has shown his hand as you said he would indirectly and the Rumor is
                        that you & Bright for office & Profit have formed a Coalition—if your
                        success requires the aid of many men at the Price paid for Thompson cost and ware & tare
                        of conscience will over balance the Honor & emoluments of office, even if
                            the government should foot the bill." John Hunt to Joseph A. Wright, 
                            Richmond
                        , August 5, 1856, Wright Papers, Indiana State Library. The sudden enthusiasm
                        exhibited by Jesse Bright for an old Whig enemy is difficult to explain; however, this was an
                        age of practical politics and of practical men.
               
                  74
                        Tribune Almanac for 1857, p. 58; Indiana Documentary
                        Journal, 1857, II, 609.
               
                  75 Hiram Craig to W. H. English, 
                            Martinsville
                        , March 24, 1856, English Collection, Indiana Historical Society Library; Julian,
                            Political Recollections, 155.
            
            
            Another neighborhood politician reported similar happenings. "You will find things far
                    different at this point compared to what you formerly encountered. Whigs by the score in this
                    neighborhood, are warmly enlisted for Buchannan. Only those of decided abolition and Know Nothing
                    proclivities oppose him. The Democrats here are true with very few exceptions. Our efforts are
                    directed particularly to an exposure of the dangerous character of the leaders of the fag-enders
                    & their dogmas—especial care being taken to conciliate those whigs whose
                    prejudices alone hinder them, from acting with the democratic party."" The
                    reluctance of the Fusionists was also expressed by John B. Norman of the 
                  
                            New Albany
                         Ledger, who wrote: "In this county nine tenths of the Fusionists are
                    Fillmore men, and many of them say they will vote for Buchanan in preference to 
                        Fremont
                    ."77
            
            Third, the increase in the number of Democratic voters led to the charge that anti-
                        Nebraska
                     men of 1854 had drifted back to the old liners. That this happened to any great degree
                    seems doubtful.78
            
            In addition to real or assumed defections, one of the serious weaknesses of the new party was its
                    organization. John Defrees as state chairman of the People's party had to a degree
                    resurrected the old tried and not-so-true dogmas of the defunct Whig party. It was on this score
                    that Michael C. Garber, who had been a successful state chairman of the Fusionists in 1854, was
                    bitter. He editorialized: "The gentle-men who engineered the Republican party in Indiana
                    are clever, estimable men, every one of them; but as political leaders they are imbeciles.
                    … They have been outgeneraled in every particular. … Southern Indiana was
                    indubitably the Republican missionary field… [yet it] was given up to the combined enemy
                    without a struggle. … You see what has been done with the present leaders; it could not
                    have been worse done without leaders. If more fortunate men cannot be found in the Republican ranks,
                    better to be without leaders or hire some from the Republicans of some of the other
                        States."79
            
            
               
                  76 A. B. Conduitt to Joseph A. Wright, 
                            Mooresville
                        , June 23, 1856, Wright Papers, Indiana State Library.
               
                  77 J. B. Norman to W. H. English, 
                            New Albany
                        , July 12, 1856, English Collection, Indiana Historical Society Library.
               
                  78 See Stoler, "The Democratic Element in the New Republican
                        Party in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXVI, 189-190.
               
                  79
                        Evening Courier (
                            Madison
                        ), November 6, 1856, eited in ibid., 192n.
            
            
            The radical element of the new Republicans was also dissatisfied. In the prospectus for a new
                    antislavery journal, The Western Presage, to be published in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Andrew and Solomon Bidwell deplored the fact that the great mass of the antislavery
                    arguments was framed for the emergency "and so carefully constructed, to avoid giving
                    offense, as to render it entirely impotent against the opposition, and worse than useless as a
                    support to the cause it was designed to sustain.
            "The course which the Republicans have pursued toward the Know Nothing party of Indiana, has
                    also tended greatly to weaken the party of Freedom, by driving from its support thousands of honest
                    men who would otherwise have been with us, while it gained none of the proscriptive vote it turned
                    aside to invite."80
            
            A final factor which again is immeasurable but undoubtedly was present to an alarming degree was
                    fraudulent voting, along with liberal naturalization of the foreign-born. In the state elections in
                    particular, the fraudulent votes were larger than usual. One politician declared there was
                    "nothing like it this side of 
                        Kansas
                    —Border Ruffians from 
                  Ohio, Mich.
               
                    
                        Ill.
                     & Ky were avalanched upon us by thousands … [plus] double, tripple
                    & multiplex voting by the same individuals."81 Colfax also
                    claimed that fully 20,000 illegal votes had been cast against his party. Governor Wright in his
                    message to the legislature in January, 1857, and Ashbel Willard in his inaugural address a short
                    time later warned of the effects of the practices of the last election. Wright appealed for stricter
                    election laws.82
            
            These, then, were the contemporary reactions to the results of the election of 1856. The Democracy
                    was still a firmly entrenched political organization, but it was not as all-encompassing in its
                    power as it had once been. The Republicans had committed political blunders, but as a new party they
                        
                  
                     80 Letter of the Bidwell Brothers and Prospectus, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , November 22, 1856, "A Letter of Daniel Worth to George W. Julian and
                            Other Documents," ibid., XXVI, 155-156.
                  
                     81 Samuel W. Parker to Ignatius Brown, 
                                Connersville
                            , October 22, 1856, Lyndsay Brown Papers, Indiana State Library.
                  
                     82 Schuyler Colfax to Charles Heaton, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , October 24, 1856, Colfax Letter Book, Northern Indiana Historical Society; Indiana Documentary Journal, 1857, I, 313-314, 375-376.
               
                     were within striking distance of political success. The
                    confusing temper of the times in the nation was reaching out to rural Hoosier neighborhoods and
                    villages. The People's party leaders themselves were admittedly in the new party to stay
                    and they were organizing for the future. The initial successes of 1854 had perhaps been a handicap
                    in that the crusading spirit lost some of its drive by 1856. Also in 1854 there had been no
                    responsibilities to a national party program, but in 1856 in some districts, for example, it was
                    difficult to explain 
                        Fremont
                     to the voters.
            It would seem that a great deal of importance should be attached to the natural reluctance to
                    innovation on the part of many who could not divorce themselves from their political memories. A
                    Methodist clergyman from Great Britain who was a guest in the governor's mansion during the
                    campaign observed: "We have had some insight into American political and public life while
                    here, and facilities for observing party associations and party struggles, such as we could hardly
                    have had, if our entertainer had been a person merely in private life. The governor is a professed
                    Democrat (that is, a moderate reformer); so are most of his friends with whom we have conversed on
                    politics in his house; and nearly all of them have made no secret of their being extreme partisans.
                    They have no forbearance towards others who are forward to proclaim political convictions; and
                    though moderate and temperate men in other matters, in politics they are most resolute and
                    determined. Public men, periodicals, and newspapers maintaining sentiments in common with theirs,
                    are outrageously be-praised, as it seems to us; and their censures appear equally unsparing and
                    overdone. … Unflinching adherence to party is principle with them, and to forsake a party
                    is regarded as an act of the greatest dishonour."83 In such a political
                    climate, the People's party members, who were now calling themselves Republicans more
                    frequently, had done very well indeed.
            When the Republican editorial convention which was to meet early in 1857 called for its members to
                    come as "Re-publicans," the party had arrived in name as well as in fact 84
                    
                  
                     83 Jobson, America, and American Methodism, 116-117.
                  
                     84
                            Indianapolis Daily Journal, December 20, 1856.
               
                     The political frustrations born many years before had a new
                    outlet in a party whose leaders prophetically spoke to its rivals, "We told them we had a
                    future before us & they had not."85
            
            
               
                  85 Schuyler Colfax to John D. Defrees, 
                            Greencastle
                        , October 27, 1856, Colfax Letter Book, Northern Indiana Historical Society.
            
         
         
         
            The Making of a Political Abolitionist: George W. Julian and the Free Soilers, 1848
            
                    Patrick W. Riddleberger
                    *
                
            Of transcendant importance in the formation of the Republican party in 1854 were the third party
                    movements of the preceding fifteen years, such as the Liberty party of 1840 and the Free Soil party
                    of 1848, which in 1852 called itself the Free Democracy. Predicated on the conviction of a minority
                    that the slavery question was political in nature and that it could be solved by political processes
                    in a democratic community, these movements were a positive factor in the disintegration of the major
                    parties prior to the successful formation of the Republican party. For politicians especially the
                    third parties provided a refuge in which they could agitate against the immoralities of slavery
                    without necessarily giving up their political careers. Indeed, in searching for the motivations that
                    led these men into the third party movements one is almost certain to find a combination of moral
                    convictions and mundane political ambitions.
            Historical perspective reveals at once the potential strength of the political antislavery
                    organizations in the milieu of mid-nineteenth century America, with its prevading idea of progress,
                    its reforming zeal, and its abiding faith in democratic processes; yet it is doubtful in the extreme
                    that men living in the 1840's could foresee clearly what the future held in store for them.
                    For those with their political careers before them, novices as well as experienced politicians, the
                    decision to join the Liberty or the Free Soil party was a calculated risk, and it was seldom made
                    hastily or ill advisedly. Charles Sumner was willing to adopt any organization aiming at the
                    abolition of slavery. Joshua R. Giddings, who was in complete sympathy with the aims of James G.
                    Birney and his Liberty party, fought the antislavery fight from within the Whig party until 1848;
                    after that time, when he was finally convinced that the Whigs were not dedicated to the antislavery
                    cause, he could no longer stomach the compromise attitude of the two major parties. Salmon P. Chase,
                    while hoping that the northern Democrats would take a firm stand 
                  
                     * Patrick W. Riddleberger is a staff member of the history
                            department at the University of 
                                Maryland
                            . This article is a chapter from his Ph.D. dissertation.
               
                     against slavery, became a leader in the Liberty party and
                    joined the Free Soilers in 1848.1
            
            In similar fashion, George Washington Julian of Indiana, entering politics as an ardent Whig in 1840,
                    underwent a political metamorphosis that by 1848 made of him a Free Soiler and a bitter enemy of the
                    Whigs. While it would be erroneous to suggest an absolute parallel between Julian's
                    decision and the decisions of other men, in some respects at least his case seems typical: there was
                    the intense political ambition, the dedication to a cause, the difficulty intrinsic in breaking old
                    bonds—political or other, an acceptance of the idea of progress, and the religious factor
                    that is often intricately related to reform activity.2
            
            It was men as these who were the original leaders of the Republican party. By 1854 their third
                    parties had ceased to be effective organizations; hence they were ready to take advantage of any
                    situation conducive to a new antislavery political movement. Their opportunity came with the
                    Kansas-Nebraska Act of 1854, which was followed in the various states by the formation of a number
                    of separate anti-
                        Nebraska
                     organizations. True enough, the victorious Republican party of 1860 was the result of a
                    fusion of many different groups with varied interests, such as protective tariffs, a homestead act,
                    internal improvements, a temperance law, and a transcontinental railroad. But in its chrysalis stage
                    the one point upon which all could agree—an indispensable requirement for the formation
                    of a new party—was the Free Soil doctrine that there should be no further extension of
                    slavery into the territories and that Congress had the constitutional 
                  
                     1 Moorfield Storey, Charles Sumner (
                                Boston
                            , 1900), 36-85; Edward L. Pierce (ed.), Memoir and Letters of
                                Charles Sumner (4 vols. 
                                Boston
                            , 1878-1894), III (1894), 164-170; William H. Smith, A Political
                                History of Slavery (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1903), I, 96-97; Alto L. Whitehurst, Martin Van Buren and the
                                Free Soil Movement (
                                Chicago
                            , 1935), 159-160; Theodore C. Smith, The Liberty and Free Soil
                                Parties in the Northwest (
                                New York
                            , 1897), 126-130; Francis Curtis, The Republican Party (2
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1904), I, 148-229; George W. Julian, The Life of Joshua R.
                                Giddings (
                                Chicago
                            , 1892), 217-254; Albert B. Hart, Salmon 
                                    Portland
                                 Chase (
                                Boston
                            , 1899), 97-98; Jacob W. Schuckers, The Life and Public Services of
                                Salmon 
                                    Portland
                                 Chase (
                                New York
                            , 1874), 81-90.
                  
                     2 Grace Julian Clarke, George W. Julian (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1923), 69-84; this is vol. XI of the Indiana Historical Collections. George W. Julian, Political Recollections,
                            1840-1872 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 30-68; Patrick W. Riddleberger, "George W. Julian, Nineteenth
                            Century Reformer as Politician" (Ph.D. dissertation, department of history,
                            University of 
                        California, Berkeley
                     , 1953), 25-50.
               
                     power to forbid it.3 Thus the decision of
                    an antislavery politician to leave a major party to join the Free Soil movement and the complex
                    motivations behind his decision seem worthy of investigation.
            George W. Julian was born and reared in 
                        Wayne County
                    , Indiana. In 1822 his father had been elected to the state legislature in Corydon as a
                    follower of Henry Clay; other members of his family, brothers, uncles, and cousins, many of whom
                    were leaders in 
                        Wayne County
                    , were also affiliated with the party of 
                        Clay
                     and Webster. Jacob Julian, an older brother who made George his junior law partner,
                    remained one of the Whig leaders of the county after George had ended his affiliation. Indeed
                    "Old Wayne," one of the earliest Hoosier counties to be settled, was a National
                    Republican-Whig stronghold, and it remained so even after the Democrats gained control of the state
                    in 1843.4
            
            Thus because of the influence of his early associations it was almost foreordained that Julian would
                    cast his first presidential vote, in 1840, for William Henry Harrison. Later he was to remember the
                    election as a "grand national frolic" virtually devoid of issues, but as a young
                    man of twenty-three he joined in the enthusiasm for the hero of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , even accepting the spurious representation of Harrison as a log-cabin frontiersman who
                    stood for the rights of the oppressed and poor against the aloof aristocrat, Martin Van Buren. Once
                    he rode 150 miles through mud and swamps to attend a mass meeting, a journey for which he felt
                    compensated by the spirit of the immense crowd and the abundance of hard cider. Later he went to a
                    rally at 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               , where he succeeded in getting close to Harrison, "gazing
                    into his face with an awe which I have never since felt for any mortal."5
            
            
               
                  3 Allan Nevins, Ordeal of the Union (4 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1947-1950), II (1947), 316-323; James F. Rhodes, History of the 
                                United States
                             from the Compromise of 1850 (8 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1902-1919), II (1902), 45-46, 65, 97-98. Many northern Whigs were reluctant to
                        abandon their old party organization. This was especially true of William H. Seward and his
                        followers in 
                            New York
                        . In 
                            Massachusetts
                         also the Whigs refused to combine with the new party, so that in its early stages
                        the Republican party there was the former Free Soil party under the leadership of Sumner and
                        Henry Wilson. On the other hand, Whig leaders such as Ben Wade of 
                            Ohio
                        , Zachariah Chandler of 
                            Michigan
                        , and Horace Greeley of 
                            New York
                         went early into the Republican movement.
               
                  4 Clarke, George W. Julian, 29; Grace Julian Clarke,
                        "The Burnt District," Indiana Magazine of History (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1905-), XXVII (1931), 119-121; Julian, Political Recollections,
                        11-12.
               
                  5 Julian, Political Recollections, 12, 16-17.
            
            
            When young Julian first entered the political world, the Hoosier state was experiencing perplexing
                    problems, the most pressing of which was her debt. By 1840 the state owed the tremendous sum of
                    $12,000,000 because of its efforts to construct an elaborate system of internal
                    improvements during the hard times which followed the Panic of 1837. Because the debt was contracted
                    during a period of Whig political dominance, the situation was slowly weakening that
                    party's hold on the state. Other important issues were river and harbor legislation, public
                    land policy, banking, and the tariff. Indeed, the fact that the Whigs had relied too much on the
                    attractions of personalities like William Henry Harrison and too little on positive programs to deal
                    with these questions helped to defeat them in 1843.6
            
            As a part of the Old Northwest, Indiana was in a region which was rapidly gaining the balance of
                    political power between the Northeast and the South: which way she would throw her weight was a
                    paramount interest up to the Civil War. Commerce with the South and the southern origins of many of
                    her people help to explain a legislative resolution of 1839 which declared that interference with
                    slavery in states where it already existed would be "injurious to the peace and stability
                    of the union."7 But if the resolution represented a majority sentiment
                    against antislavery agitation, a vocal and ardent opposition was already developing. Even before the
                    advent of the Liberty party in 1840, the abolitionist Stephen S. Harding had carried the fight into
                    southern Indiana, the stronghold of the proslavery forces.8
            
            Julian's native Whitewater Valley was deeply involved in these
                    developments. When the depression began, the people 
                  
                     6 In the 1843 election, the Democrats elected their candidate for
                            governor and eight of the ten congressmen, and gained control of the general assembly. Logan
                            Esarey, A History of Indiana… (2nd ed.; 2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1918), I, 522-531. Charles Roll, Indiana, One Hundred and Fifty
                                Years of American Development (5 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1931), II, 45-53, 63-70, 82-83.
                  
                     7
                            General Laws of Indiana, 1838-1839, p. 353; Senate
                            Documents, 25th Cong., 3rd Sess., No. 209 (serial no. 340). For a consideration of the
                            position of the Old Northwest before the Civil War, see Albert L. Kohlmeier, The Old Northwest as the Keystone of the Arch of American Federal Union (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1938).
                  
                     8 Henry C. Hubbard, "‘Pro-Southern’
                            Influences in the Free West, 1840-1865," 
                        Mississippi
                                Valley Historical Review (
                        Cedar
                                    Rapids, Iowa
                     ,
                            1914-), XX (1933-1934) 48-52. Kenneth M. Stampp, Indiana Politics During the
                                Civil War (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1949), 1-2; this is vol. XXXI of the Indiana Historical Collections. Etta R. French, "Stephen S. Harding; a Hoosier
                            Abolitionist," Indiana Magazine of History, XXVII,
                        209-229.
               
                     there were more than ever concerned with means of transporting
                    their flour, wool, and paper to 
                        Cincinnati
                     and elsewhere. Adding to their troubles was a shortage of currency that for a time
                    after 1837 caused shin plasters to come into common usage. Valley people were also confronted with
                    the problem of absorbing Irish and German immigrants who had come to farm or to work on the
                    Whitewater Canal, inhabitants especially obnoxious to the Whigs because of their tendency to vote
                    "loco-foco." Most important, the Hoosier antislavery movement originated in the
                    valley, and it was more lively there as an issue than in any other part of the state.9
            
            Thus, as young Julian entered politics, he was in direct contact with issues on which he would have
                    to formulate ideas and policies, and the environment undoubtedly stimulated the process of
                    development; but not until 1844 was he ready to state his views with precision and conclusiveness.
                    The period from 1840 to 1844 was one of professional and emotional preparation for his real entrance
                    into politics.
            Admitted to the bar in 1840, Julian began to practice in 
                        New Castle
                    , where he remained for only a few months before he moved to 
                        Greenfield
                    . Before Julian could hope for a career in law or politics he had to overcome an extreme
                    and painful timidity about speaking in public. His struggles began at 
                        Greenfield
                     in the company of a young man named George Pattison, who had similar difficulties.
                    Together they formed an organization of which they were the only members, the Dark Lyceum. At
                    meetings held in total darkness, where they were not intimidated by probing human eyes, the young
                    men orated to each other on legal matters and current topics. In 1843 Julian accepted the invitation
                    of his older brother Jacob to become a junior law partner. Hence he returned to his native 
                        Centerville
                    , where he established a second Dark Lyceum, with a larger membership and more ritual
                    than the original organization. Apparently it helped Julian overcome the almost paralyzing fear that
                    gripped him in his early court room efforts. As Julian himself described it, the purpose of the
                    organization was intellectual improvement and the development of the art of public speaking. But the
                    Dark Lyceum served another purpose of which Julian might not 
                  
                     9 Chelsea L. Lawlis, "Changes in the Whitewater
                                Valley, 1840-1850," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XLIV (1948), 71-81; Lawlis, "Prosperity and Hard Times in the Whitewater
                                Valley, 1830-1840," ibid., XLIII (1947),
                        363-378.
               
                     have been altogether conscious: it provided him with a sense of
                    belonging as nothing else did. Certainly the practice of law did not provide it for him as it seemed
                    to do for others. Al-though Julian rode the Whitewater circuit occasionally with others, his
                    introspective nature led him away from participation in the frolic in the taverns where the lawyers
                    lodged or in the practical jokes and story-telling around the campfire. The practice of law per se
                    never had great appeal for him; it might provide him with the means of making a living or give him a
                    start in politics, but once he discovered the allure of politics, this, rather than the law, became
                    his chief interest.10
            
            By 1844 the Dark Lyceum and practice in the court-rooms of Indiana's sixth circuit had given
                    Julian the courage to take the stump in a presidential campaign. But which party ought he support?
                    On economic issues he was falling away from the Whigs, and had these been the determining factors he
                    might logically have gone over to the Democrats. He was beginning to think of the national bank as
                    an obsolete idea, and he was out of sympathy with the Whigs' use of the public lands as a
                    source for revenue rather than for homesteads for the landless poor. Nor was he any longer attracted
                    by the Whigs' ideas on the tariff, their "pet dogma of ‘the higher the
                    duty the lower the price of the protected article.’"11
            
            But for Julian the question of slavery overshadowed all other issues, and, as he later explained it,
                    this alone bound him to the Whigs. His avid reading of the speeches of John Quincy Adams and Joshua
                    R. Giddings had thoroughly aroused him and had led him to the conclusion that Polk's
                    election would be an "‘irretrievable national calamity.’
                        "12 Julian's opposition to the annexation of 
                        Texas
                    , which he regarded as a plot of the slave power, was reason enough to oppose the
                    Democratic candidate. In his autobiography he recalled the strong emotional reaction that he
                    suffered when Polk was elected, how he brooded for a week and found it difficult to sleep. He was
                    particularly indignant with those who by voting 
                  
                     10 Clarke, George W. Julian,
                            52-55; George W. Julian to Monimia Bunnell, April 27, 1843, Samuel S. Boyd Papers, Bancroft
                            Library, University of 
                        California,
                                    Berkeley
                     ; William D. Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1899), I, 31-32; Leander J. Monks (ed.), Courts and Lawyers of
                                Indiana (3 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), I, 94.
                  
                     11 Julian, Political Recollections, 37, 38.
                  
                     12 Quoted in Clarke, George W. Julian, 59.
               
                     for James G. Birney, nominee of the Liberty party, had assured
                    the election of Polk.13
            
            Julian's categorical rejection of the Liberty party in the election of 1844 and his bitter
                    denunciation of those who sup-ported it strongly suggest that personal political ambition was one of
                    the forces tying him to the Whigs, and equally as significant are the clues to his character present
                    in his own explanation of his decision that appeared in his unpublished autobiography and in his Political Recollections, written some three decades later.14
            
            The very existence of the Liberty party was predicated on the antislavery movement that Julian had
                    come to regard as paramount, and 
                        Wayne County
                     was the center of the Liberty party's activity in Indiana. Yet Julian, even
                    though within four years he was to ally himself with a similar third party movement, seems to have
                    eliminated from his thinking even the possibility that in 1844 the Liberty party offered a feasible
                    alternative for an antislavery man. As he described it, his vote for the Whigs was based purely on
                    his opposition to slavery, with no hint of political expediency; yet Julian was becoming politically
                    ambitious and the Whig party offered the best chance of success, perhaps the only chance, in 
                        Wayne County
                    . The presence of men like Joshua Giddings and John Quincy Adams among the northern
                    Whigs makes Julian's choice of that party logical enough, but his effort to convince
                    everybody, including himself, that he acted only on principle is significant because its reveals so
                    much of his personality. The idea that principle could be combined with self-interest never seemed
                    to occur to him, or else he successfully blocked it out of his mind. Throughout his life he seemed
                    compelled to find vindication through a cause outside of himself for his every act. This trait, in
                    combination with his intense ambition, put him under a strain from which he never really felt relief
                    and that he apparently did not fully understand.
            Whatever the basis of Julian's decision in 1844, his participation in the campaign
                    apparently bolstered his confidence and gave him something of a local reputation as a stump speaker.
                    Soon he was ready to make his initial bid for political office, and on March 12, 1845, the 
                  
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, the leading Whig organ of 
                        Wayne County
                    , announced his candidacy for the lower house of the general assembly.15
            
            
               
                  13
                        Ibid.
               
                  14
                        Ibid., 58-59; Julian, Political Recollections, 30-49.
               
                  15
                        
                     
                                Richmond
                             Palladium, March 12, 1845.
            
            
            Julian's nomination on the Whig ticket came rather easily, but to win the election he had to
                    overcome an insurgent movement from within his own party. The cause of this opposition is not clear,
                    but Julian was able to overcome it and to go into office along with the other Whigs of 
                        Wayne County
                    . In electing their entire slate in 1845 the Whigs of "Old Wayne" were
                    still bucking the political trend in Indiana, for in that year the Democratic domination begun in
                    1843 continued; the state senate was divided equally, but the Democrats maintained undisputed
                    control of the house and elected all but two congressmen.16
            
            Upon entering the legislature Julian began to display those reforming proclivities for which he would
                    become so well known before the end of his political career. Immediately he became the leader of a
                    successful movement to modify the criminal code dealing with capital punishment. He also became
                    interested in removing divorce from the control of the legislature and placing it under the courts,
                    a change that finally came with the new state constitution in 1851.17 But by far
                    the most important legislation of the session, and that which most profoundly affected
                    Julian's future, was the Butler Bill, adopted to deal with internal improvements and the
                    state debt.
            The history of the internal improvements and debt question dated from 1828, when the federal
                    government granted land to be used toward the construction of a canal to connect the
                        Wabash River with Lake Erie. But regional jealousy was
                    so great that four years elapsed before the necessary legislation passed the general assembly. The
                        Whitewater Valley, which sought appropriations for projects of its own, was
                    especially adamant in its opposition; it was David Hoover, Julian's uncle, who led the
                    delaying faction in the legislature. Disagreements were finally resolved in 1836, and a grand scheme
                    providing for a state-wide system of roads, canals, and railroads was finally adopted. It provided
                    for the extension of the Wabash and Erie Canal, which had been begun four years earlier,
                    construction of the Whitewater Canal, dredging 
                  
                     16 Clarke, George W. Julian, 61; Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 538.
                  
                     17 Henry C. Fox, Memoirs of 
                                    Wayne County
                                 and the City of 
                                    Richmond
                                , Indiana (
                        Madison,
                                    Wisconsin
                     , 1912), I, 202; 
                        
                                    Richmond
                                 Palladium, January 7, 1846; Indiana House Journal,
                            1845-1846, passim. Julian presented his argument on the divorce question
                            in a letter to the Indiana State Journal, December 23, 1845. See Grace
                            Julian Clarke's Scrap-book in the Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; see also Clarke, George W. Julian, 62.
               
                     to increase the navigability of rivers, and a huge
                    appropriation of $10,000,000.18
            
            So great was the optimism about the future of these internal improvements that no adequate plan was
                    drawn up for payment of the resulting debt. Jubilant political leaders and internal improvements
                    proponents were convinced that tolls would soon take care of construction and maintenance; hence no
                    tax funds were set aside even for payment of interest charges. After 1836, depression,
                    mismanagement, and floods combined to disrupt the system, so that in 1839, amidst a general
                    financial and engineering breakdown, all work stopped. Corruption too took its toll; from the bond
                    issues, which amounted to approximately $15,000,000, the state had received only
                    $8,600,000 in cash, while state officials and agents made off with an estimated
                        $2,000,000.19
            
            In some quarters a desperate fear developed that repudiation might be the final result, and this
                    apprehension brought protests that it ought never be allowed in Indiana. The general assembly
                    reflected these views when in January, 1845, it adopted a resolution that repudiation of the debt
                    would be a blot on the honor of the state.20 It was easy to denounce repudiation
                    as a crime; it was quite another matter to take positive action to prevent it, and as the election
                    of 1845 approached nothing had been done.
            In the summer of 1845 Charles Butler appeared in Indiana as the agent of the bondholders to find a
                    way to salvage at least part of their investment in the internal improvements system. After speaking
                    in various localities, he finally met with a joint committee of the general assembly, from which
                    emerged the first Butler Bill, passed in January, 1846. Under its provisions, the state was to pay
                    half the interest on the debt, while the bondholders were to rely on the profits of the Wabash and
                    Erie Canal for the other half. The bondholders were to complete the canal to the 
                        Ohio
                     with their own means and with the congressional lands which had been granted for the
                    project. The debt was to be funded, and the governor was 
                  
                     18 See Laws of Indiana, 1828-1829, pp. 10-12, for the act of acceptance of the federal grant. See also Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 404, 406, 408-414.
                  
                     19 Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 427.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 430; General Laws of Indiana, 1844-1845, p.
                        92.
               
                     to convey the lands to the bondholders whenever one-half the
                    bonds had been surrendered.21
            
            Although the settlement was generally accepted as a fair one, cries of repudiation came from some
                    quarters, both inside and outside the state. In no quarter was it louder than in 
                        Wayne County
                    , where David P. Holloway, Whig editor of the 
                  
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, launched a vicious attack against the bill and against Julian for
                    supporting it. Julian's argument was, essentially, that the debt could not be paid off in
                    full by the state because the people were already being taxed to the limit of their ability to pay.
                    In addition to a scourge of sickness and crop failure, they were burdened with a heavy delinquent
                    tax list under a rate of only 20 cents per hundred dollars' valuation. His painstaking
                    efforts to explain his position were useless, and the heated controversy between Julian and Holloway
                    in the columns of the Palladium was the beginning of an enmity between the two men
                    that never healed.22
            
            In alienating Holloway and men like him Julian was doing inestimable harm to any chance for immediate
                    political advancement in his home district, for he was making enemies of the outstanding political
                    leaders in that Whig stronghold. Only by a complete recantation could Julian have got back into the
                    good graces of men who might have been expected to assure him a political future. Although political
                    expediency seems to have been a factor in 1844 and in some of his later political decisions, he
                    stood firm on the Butler Bill because he thought that he was right. In 1847 Julian sought the Whig
                    nomination for state senator from 
                        Wayne County
                    , but his consistent stand on the Butler Bill was one factor contributing to his defeat;
                    his successful opponent was Holloway.23
            
            
               
                  21 Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 432-434; Indiana State Sentinel (
                            Indianapolis
                        ), January 24, 1846; Logan Esarey, "Internal Improvements in Early
                        Indiana," Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1895-), V (1911), 137-138. This first Butler Bill was found to be impracticable,
                        and a second was enacted in 1847; it relieved the state of one-half of the principal as well as
                        interest on the debt. Julian also supported this measure. Ibid., 139.
               
                  22 See, for example, the 
                            New York
                        
                        Journal of Commerce, January 25, 1846, quoted in Indiana State
                            Sentinel, March 14, 1846 letter from Julian to 
                     
                                Wayne County
                             Record, February 11, 1846, Grace Julian Clarke's Scrapbook,
                        Indiana State Library; 
                     
                                Richmond
                             Palladium, February 18 and July 9, 1846.
               
                  23
                        
                     
                                Richmond
                             Palladium, March 16, 23, April 6, and August 17, 1847; Clarke, George W. Julian, 67-68. One might wonder whether Julian fore-saw, as early as
                        1845 or 1846, the future alignment between antislavery men and Democrats that made possible his
                        election to Congress in 1849 in spite of Whig opposition; there seems to be no positive evidence
                        to suggest that he did.
            
            
            Thus ended a phase of Julian's life that had begun in 1844. Since then he had tasted both
                    victory and defeat in politics, and he had tested himself in an area bigger than the local courtroom
                    or lyceum. His name was no longer unknown in Indiana, and his political metamorphosis, of which his
                    defection from the Whigs on the internal improvements issue was an important part, was well under
                    way. The antislavery crusade would complete it.
            In the complex of motivations that may have led Julian into the abolitionist crusade the most
                    obvious, and probably the most important, was his struggle with personal religious problems that had
                    plagued him for years. Since his adolescence Julian had found that he was not altogether satisfied
                    with the faith of his family. Several years before reaching manhood he had struck up a friendship
                    with an old Universalist preacher, Jonathan Kidwell, who had journeyed from time to time through the
                    vicinity of 
                        Centerville
                    . Kidwell and his ideas were anathema to most of the members of the community, but
                    Julian found him fascinating; his invective against orthodoxy seems to have spurred young Julian to
                    investigation and reading on religious matters.24 Even while entering into
                    politics he was still searching for spiritual satisfaction. Too much of the orthodox Quakerism
                    taught by his mother seemed to him to be folklore, fantasy for bolstering up those not capable of
                    thinking for themselves. Yet this faith had been the source of much of the strength of his mother,
                    who had cared for her family and managed through years of trouble following the death of the father.
                    Understandably, Julian found it difficult lightly to lay aside the religion of this beloved parent.
            It was while he was still trying to work out these personal difficulties that Julian discovered the
                    writings of William Ellery Channing. Here he finally found many of the answers for which he was
                    searching; here was a reasonable faith and a logical argument to support it. Before long Julian had
                    consumed the six volumes of Channing. The effect was magnificent. "I felt," he
                    wrote, "like one coming out of a fearful darkness into the full light of day."
                    Here, indeed, was support for Julian's own conclusions about religion from a great 
                  
                     24 George W. Julian, "A Search After Truth," Unitarian Review (36 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1874-1891), XXIX (1888), 48-57, reprinted in Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XXXII (1936), 250-258; Clarke, George W. Julian,
                        41-42.
               
                     authority of the day. Such doctrines as the Trinity, total
                    depravity, and vicarious atonement Channing treated as corruptions of the pure Gospel. From the
                    religious works of the great Unitarian Julian turned to the antislavery tracts, and they became his
                    "constant companions… [and] ceaseless trumpet-call to battle against oppression.
                        "25 Channing did more than merely undermine the old superstitions
                    that Julian was growing to distrust; he provided something better, some-thing positive, in their
                    place. The belief, closely related to the idea of progress, that man was a rational being with some
                    measure of control over the society in which he lived must have appealed very strongly to Julian.
                    From it followed logically Channing's reflections about good works.26
            
            In seeking a way out of his religious perplexities Julian also turned for advice to Lucretia Mott,
                    who remained a warm friend, and he began reading the works of Harriet Martineau. He found that he
                    could not, with Miss Martineau, reject religion altogether or follow her into "positivism
                    and the denial of a future life," but she, along with Channing, gave him more
                    "tranquility of mind." As he became more deeply involved in the antislavery cause
                    and gave his "whole heart to its service, … doctrinal doubts and anxieties
                    … seemed unworthy of one who loved his neighbor and believed in the brotherhood of
                        man."27
            
            An additional factor, and one that cannot be omitted from an examination of his adoption of the
                    antislavery crusade, was the very milieu in which he lived, for as a resident of 
                        Wayne County
                     and of the Whitewater Valley he had been in the midst of
                    antislavery activities for many years. The Quakers of that area were, of course, leaders in the
                    antislavery movement; in 1836 they had organized the State Anti-Slavery Society of Indiana, an
                    organization whose membership was virtually confined to the Valley. Into this region Levi Coffin had
                    come to carry on his antislavery activities, and by 1836 his house in 
                        Newport
                     was already an important station in the underground railroad.28 One
                    might even speculate that Julian's 
                  
                     25 Julian, "Search After Truth," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXII, 252, 253.
                  
                     26 William E. Channing, Works (
                                Boston
                            , 1891), 233-246.
                  
                     27 Julian, "Autobiography," quoted in Clarke, George W. Julian, 72-73.
                  
                     28 Smith, Political History of Slavery, I, 9;
                            Lawlis, "Prosperity and Hard Times in the Whitewater
                            Valley," Indiana Magazine of History, XLIII, 373; Levi
                            Coffin, Reminiscences (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1876), 106ff, 128-129, 223-225, and passim.
               
                     involvement in the abolition movement eased his departure from
                    the 
                        Quaker
                     faith; while turning away from the doctrine of his fathers, as a crusader against
                    slavery he was upholding what had become practically a tradition of the Quaker church. Conceivably,
                    therefore, his breaking away from religious ties was less irrevocable, less final, than it otherwise
                    would have been.
            Undoubtedly Julian's disagreements with fellow Whigs over internal improvements and state
                    debts, as well as his adoption of the antislavery crusade, weakened his affection for the Whig
                    party; yet even after the nomination of Zachary Taylor Julian hoped for a resurgence of northern
                    Whiggism that would repudiate Taylor and establish itself as the anti-slavery party. This failing,
                    he saw no choice for antislavery Whigs except to repudiate the party. In a letter to the National Era, under the pseudonym "A Northern Whig," he rebuked
                    northern party men who would vote for Taylor and branded the candidate himself as "merely a
                    military chieftain … exclusively in the hands of the South, and the undoubted exponent of
                    Southern… policy and interest." Taylor had waged an unconstitutional war, Julian
                    raged, in which he had "waded up to his eyes in the blood of a people with whom we were at
                    peace. In plain Saxon truth, he stands before the country as the chief of our national cut-throats;
                    and while his hands are yet reeking with the blood of his victims, and the gore is still dripping
                    from his garments, he asks the American people, in return for his sweet services in the
                        merciless work of death, to elect him President of the 
                            United States
                        !"
               29
            
            On this bitter and hyperbolic note Julian quit the party of his youth and made his way, along with
                    Joshua R. Giddings of 
                        Ohio
                    , Henry Wilson of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , and others, into the newly formed Free Soil party. On July 24, 1848, a Free Soil
                    convention in 
                        Indianapolis
                     selected delegates, Julian among them, to go to the 
                        Buffalo
                     convention. Although his role in 
                        Buffalo
                     was not an active one, it was a stimulating and encouraging experience. He found no
                    element of compromise at the convention, for it was unhampered by a southern wing. Any doubt as to
                    Martin Van Buren's adherence to northern principles, he felt, was more than compensated for
                    by the plat-form, which called on Congress to exert its constitutional 
                  
                     29
                            National Era (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            ), August 31. 1848.
               
                     power to prohibit slavery in the territories. Moreover, he was
                    convinced that Van Buren, who had been driven to political retirement by southerners, would never
                    again align himself with the slave power. These were the arguments that Julian used as he stumped
                    Indiana's sixth congressional district as a Van Buren elector in the autumn of 1848.30
            
            But for Julian the great significance of the campaign was his conception of it and his interpretation
                    of his individual role in it; for he saw himself engaged in the greatest crusade of his life, and he
                    never abandoned this interpretation of the experience. Decades later he described it with the same
                    fervor that he had felt in 1848. Whig leaders had tried to force him back into the party, he said,
                    but "I was obliged to offer them open defiance. … I was subjected to a torrent
                    of billingsgate which rivalled the fish market. … The charge of
                    ‘abolition-ism’ was flung at me everywhere. … I was an
                    ‘amalgamationist’ and a ‘woolly-head.’ I was branded as
                    the ‘apostle of disunion’ and the ‘orator of free-dirt.’
                    It was a standing charge of the Whigs that I carried in my pocket a lock of the hair of Frederick
                    Douglass, to regale my senses with its aroma when I grew faint."31
            
            In the midst of the campaign Julian's brother Jacob requested that their law partnership be
                    dissolved, so that Julian found himself not only an outcast from his old political party but
                    "thrown entirely upon [his] own resources" professionally. "Men who know that I am honest in my convictions and that I could have no sinister
                    motives," he lamented, would prostrate him. "And now even a brother, chiming in
                    with the popular clamor, sees proper to join the general cry of ‘mad
                        dog.’"32 But the cause for which he worked, Julian
                    believed, was a source of strength that made the contest less uneven than it otherwise would have
                    been. Or, as he stated it: "I was so perfectly swallowed up in my work and dominated by the
                    singleness of my purpose, that I took no thought of anything else. … With the truth on my
                    side, I was delighted to find myself perfectly able, single-handed, to fight my battle 
                  
                     30 Smith, Political History of Slavery, I, 96-97;
                            Whitehurst, Martin Van Buren and the Free Soil Movement, 159-160; Smith,
                                The Liberty and Free Soil Parties in the Northwest, 126-130; 
                        
                                    Richmond
                                 Palladium, August 2 and 23, 1848; Julian, Political
                                Recollections, 59-60; Clarke, George W. Julian, 78-79.
                  
                     31 Julian, Political Recollections, 65.
                  
                     32 George W. Julian, "Journal", September 19, 1848,
                            quoted in Clarke, George W. Julian, 80-81.
               
                     against the advantages of superior talent and the trained
                    leadership of men of established reputation on the stump." 33
            
            One might logically ask why, if Julian's crusading impulse was so overpowering, he did not
                    join an abolition society where he would have been in the company of other crusaders. One reason why
                    he did not must certainly have been the influence of Channing, who vehemently opposed the agitation
                    and the defiance of law fomented by Garrisonians. Channing firmly believed that slavery could be
                    abolished legally if it were kept constantly open for discussion as a great national issue. Too
                    often, he discovered, the emphasis had been placed on abolitionist agitation rather than on the
                    issue of slavery itself.34 Julian certainly took many of these views, or
                    modifications of them, as his own. He was probably thinking of the abolitionists when he wrote to a
                    local paper in 1846 criticizing the tendency toward too much organization in place of individual
                    action. "Solitary thought and independent individual action, have done
                    more for the world than all other agencies combined." Indeed, too much association, he
                    believed, was in opposition to the very tenets of Christianity "whose great Author came
                    into the world to teach the natural equality of man … and the indispensable necessity of
                    individual rectitude."35
            
            This rejection of co-operative and organized effort represents Julian's acceptance of the
                    individualist credo so persistent in the development of an American democratic faith. From it
                    logically follows his championing of the homestead law, not merely as land policy but in accordance
                    with the law of progress and as a corrective for social ills. Consistent with it, also, was his
                    adoption of Unitarianism. Moreover, Julian could never have accepted the Garrisonian view of the
                    Constitution as a proslavery instrument; rather, in accordance with Free Soil doctrine, the
                    Constitution was an antislavery instrument that had merely been distorted by the slave power
                    successors of the founding fathers. While not eschewing agitation, Julian would have used that
                    agitation to encourage political activity that would lead to the readoption of the rightful
                    interpretation of the Constitution. Such views were, of course, well suited to the purposes of a
                    politically ambitious 
                  
                     33 Julian, Political Recollections, 67.
                  
                     34 Channing, Works, 688-743.
                  
                     35
                            Dollar News-Letter (
                                Centerville
                            ), June 6, 1846, Grace Julian Clarke's Scrapbook, Indiana State
                            Library.
               
                     young man who had also been caught up in the antislavery
                    impulse. Hence the existence of the Free Soil party was fortunate for him personally, for here was
                    no mere experiment of a group of cranks; here was, possibly, a force that might bring untold
                    recognition to those who abetted it.
            In 1849 Julian was nominated by the Free Soilers as candidate for Congress from his district and,
                    with the aid of Democrats, won a hard-fought victory. In Congress he took his place with Giddings,
                    John P. Hale, and other Free Soilers as an antislavery advocate and an opponent of the Compromise of
                    1850. Although defeated in his bid for re-election in 1851, Julian became the vice-presidential
                    candidate of the Free Soil party in 1852, on the ticket with John P. Hale. Out of office during the
                    remainder of the fifties, he was one of the formulators of the Republican or People's
                    movement in Indiana; before the end of the decade he was undisputed leader of the radical faction of
                    the party in opposition to Oliver P. Morton's conservative wing. Re-elected to Congress in
                    1860, Julian took his place in the ranks of the Radical Republicans and served as a member of Ben
                    Wade's Committee on the Conduct of the War.36
            
            Julian's conversion to Free Soilism in 1848 and his activities in the movement during the
                    next four years remained, in his own mind, the most significant experience of his life. Here, he
                    believed, he had fought the hardest in what he saw as a continuing battle for human rights; here he
                    made his greatest sacrifices; to the rigors of these years he attributed the illnesses that burdened
                    him throughout the remaining years of his life. Julian's decision of 1848 and his role in
                    the Free Soil movement did indeed bring an end to a period of doubt and uncertainty, and it helped
                    him to establish a set of guides and standards that were to serve him well for the next quarter
                    century.
            With the recrudescence of the political antislavery movement after the adoption of the
                    Kansas-Nebraska Act, it was logical enough that Julian, and men like him, should be among the
                    leaders in the formation of the Republican party. They had behind them valuable experience in the
                    application of politics to the slavery question; they were not afraid of new political
                    organizations. From them came much of the vital leadership in the formation and early stages of the
                    Republican party.
            
               
                  36 Riddleberger, "George W. Julian," 52-174; Clarke, George W. Julian, 85-86, 92-110, 117-138, 219, and passim.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            The Conduct of the Militia at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    : Elihu Stout's Controversy with Colonel John P. Boyd, January, 1812
            
                    Robert S. Lambert
                    *
                
            The forces commanded by Governor William Henry Harrison at the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     in November, 1811, were composed of Indiana militia, 
                        Kentucky
                     volunteers, and regular army units. In the months that followed, a controversy over the
                    relative merits of the militia and the regulars was waged in the columns of the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Western Sun, edited by Elihu Stout. The dispute culminated in an attempt by
                    Colonel John P. Boyd, second in command at 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and commander of the principal regular force, the Fourth United States Infantry
                    Regiment, to do personal injury to the editor. Boyd had been offended by editorial remarks directed
                    at him by Stout.
            Actually the whole quarrel was only a segment of a much older political struggle in Indiana Territory
                    between Harrison's supporters and opponents. The controversy first attracted public
                    attention in the second session of the third general assembly in November and December, 1811. Here
                    Harrison's opponents seemed determined to praise the conduct of units commanded by Boyd and
                    Colonels Luke Decker and Joseph Bartholomew in an effort to embarrass the commander-in-chief.
                    Harrison felt impelled to reply to a house resolution which he felt had slighted the role of the
                    volunteers; his message was a forceful defense of the militia. In this dispute, as on most other
                    questions of his administration, Harrison had the backing of Stout and the Western
                    Sun. The following documents comprise the core of the Stout-Boyd controversy as it developed in
                    January, 1812.1
            
            
               
                  * Robert S. Lambert is professor of history at Shorter College,
                                
                     Rome, Georgia
                  . During the 1952-53 academic year he was a member of the
                        faculty of Vincennes University.
               
                  1 See the introduction by John D. Barnhart in Journals of the
                            General Assembly of Indiana Territory, 1805-1815, ed. Gayle Thornbrough and Dorothy
                        Riker (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1950), 2-17; this is vol. XXXII of the Indiana Historical Collections. For details of the militia controversy as it developed in the general
                        assembly, see ibid., 392-394, 400-401, 409-410, 415-416, 421, 426, 427-428,
                        431-433, 478. The material from the Western Sun was obtained from microfilm
                        copies in the Indiana State Library archives through the kindness of Paul H. Patterson,
                        assistant archivist.
            
            
            A number of Inhabitants of 
                        Vincennes
                     and its vicinity desirous of paying a just tribute of applause to Col. John P. Boyd,
                    and to the officers and privates under his command for their noble conduct in the action with the
                    Indians at Tippicanoe on the 7th ult. met at 
                        Vincennes
                     on the 25th.—Judge Vanderburgh was placed in the chair, and John Johnson
                    Esq. appointed Secretary.
            The following Address was then read, and being unanimously agreed to, it was resolved that the same
                    be presented to Col. Boyd in behalf of the said meeting, and that Judge Vanderburgh and John
                    Badollet be a committee to wait upon for that purpose.
            
                    
                  
                            Vincennes
                        , Nov. 25, 1811.
                    SIR,
                    Permit us to convey to you, and through you to the officers and men under your command, the
                        exalted sense of the masterly and spirited conduct which you have displayed in the late
                        engagement with the Indians at Tippicanoe, and to express the gratitude which fills our hearts
                        for so many lives which your gallant exertions have contributed to preserve. Your near departure
                        from this country prevents a more general and public manifestation of these sentiments which are
                        not peculiar to ourselves: we find them universally entertained—and those brave Regulars, expressions repeated with-out enthusiasm by that spirited but
                        untutored militia, who witnessed and emulated your cool. intrepidity, evince at once the
                        importance of the service you have rendered, and the warmth of their gratitude.
                    In attempting thus to pourtray our feelings on the present occasion, we present you the only
                        reward it is in our power to bestow, the homage of thankfulness and truth, not the less
                        gratifying to noble minds for being spontaneous and artless.
                    A great good, sir, will flow from your example; our fellow citizens will be convinced that valor
                        without science cannot, however duly exerted, lead to certain success, and may eventually cause
                        an useless effusion of blood; that an armed force without military knowledge is little better
                        than an efficient multitude; and they will learn to submit cheerfully to that discipline and
                        subordination which alone can render it consentaneous and irrisistible.
                    
                    In addressing you thus, sir, we are satisfied that we are discharging a duty of sacred justice,
                        and will reluctantly take leave of you with fervent prayers to the author of all good, that he
                        may long preserve you, and your gallant companions in arms, for the honor and defence of our
                        common country.
                    HENRY VANDERBURGH, Ch'm. JOHN JOHNSON, Sec.
                    JOHN P. BOYD, Col. 4th U. S. Infantry.
                
            To which the Colonel returned the following answer.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           To Henry Vanderburgh Esq. and the gentlemen of the meeting of 
                                            Vincennes
                                         and its vicinity.
                        
                                    
                              Regimental main quarters, 
                                    Vincennes
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Nov. 25, 1811.
                                
                        GENTLEMEN,
                        We are honored by your notice of this day, which conveys to us, the officers and
                                    privates of the Fourth Regiment, your high approbation of our conduct in the action
                                    of the 7th inst, with dignified pride we acknowledge the meed of merit: it is the
                                    soldiers boon and if we have deserved it of our country, we are gratified by your
                                    public appreciation of our exertions, which are ever ready to meet the commands of
                                    our country.
                        With consideration and respect, in the name of the Regiment, I have the honor to be,
                                    gentlemen, your obedient servant.
                        
                                    JOHN P. BOYD. Col. 4th Regt. U. S. Infantry.2
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            At a numerous meeting, (public notice for that purpose being given) of the Officers and Non
                    commissioned officers, or privates of the Militia corps (Hargroves company excepted) of the county
                    of Knox, which served on the late campaign under Gov. Harrison, met at Beckes's Inn, in 
                        Vincennes
                    , on the 7th December, 1811, Col. Luke Decker was appointed Chair-man, and Major
                    Benjamin Parke, Clerk.
            A paper purporting to be an address from "A number of the citizens of 
                            Vincennes
                        , and its vicinity," and signed by 
                  
                     2 The address to Boyd was received by Stout from
                            "Snip," who had found it in another newspaper. The letter from Snip and
                            the address are in the Western Sun (
                                Vincennes
                            ), January 4, 1812. Henry Van der Burgh was at this time a judge of the general
                            court; John Badollet was register of the land office in 
                                Vincennes
                            ; and John Johnson was treasurer of the territory. See Journals of
                                the General Assembly of Indiana Territory, 28n-29n, 985-987, and passim.
               
                     Henry Vanderburgh, as Chairman to Col. John P.
                        Boyd, being read, the following resolutions were thereupon unanimously agreed to.
            
               1. Resolved unanimously, that we cannot consider the said Address in any
                        other light than as one amongst the many attempts which have
                        flowed from the same source, to wound the feelings and injure the character of Governor
                        Harrison.
               2. Resolved, That the said Address in attempting to bestow the merit of the
                            masterly conduct in the direction and manoevering of the troops in the
                        late action to any other than the Commander in chief asserts a notorious untruth, which will be
                        acknowledged as such by the whole army.
               3. That our indignation is justly excited at the false and contemptuous manner in which the
                            Militia who served under Governor Harrison are treated, in the said
                        address; being there represented as an untutored, undisciplined band,
                        possessing, indeed courage, but none of the other requisites of soldiers; and owing eternal
                        gratitude to Col. Boyd and his Regiment, for the preservation of their lives.
               4. That the Militia which served under Governor Harrison were neither untutored nor undisciplined, but in common with the Regular
                        troops, they shared the attention of the Commander in chief, and that by his personal exertions, both the Militia and Regulars were brought to a state of
                        perfection in that kind of manoevering calculated for Indian warfare, and that they were enabled
                        to perform all the directions of the Commander in Chief with promptness, facility, and
                        precision.
               6. That it is a notorious fact, known to the whole army, that all the changes of position made
                        by the troops during the action of the 7th ult. and by which the victory was secured, were made
                        by the direction of the Commander in chief, and generally executed under his immediate
                        superintendance.
               6. That we cannot but view as a most dangerous usurpation, the meeting of a few individuals,
                        not more than from seven to ten, in a private house, without any previous or public notice being
                        given, and to pass resolutions and ad-dresses in the name of a neighborhood.-And we do further
                        view the conduct of said individuals (almost every one of whom are the avowed
                            enemies of the Commander in Chief-and several of whom have uniformly discountenanced and
                            opposed every measure of the government, in respect to the
                        
                        Shawnee Prophet and his party, and none of whom were on the Campaign) in
                        daring to speak in the name of the Militia, as highly presumptuous and unwarrantable.
               7. That it was owing to the skill and valor of the Commander in Chief that the victory of 
                            
                                Tippecanoe
                            
                         was obtained.
               8. That we have the most perfect confidence in the Commander in Chief, and shall always feel a
                        cheerfulness in serving under him whenever the exigences of the country may require it.
               9. That we would prefer serving under him to any persons that could be designated by the
                        government for that purpose.
               10. That when commanded by him, honor will be atchieved; and we have every confidence that
                        victory will be obtained.
               11. That in expressing the above opinions, in respect to the reprehensible conduct of the Addressers, we desire it to be distinctly understoodd, that we have no idea of
                        wounding the feelings or injuring the character of Col. Boyd, but we are free to declare, that
                        we believe his conduct during the action, to have been that of a gentleman and of a soldier.
               12. That we feel the highest respect, and shall always recollect with gratitude, our brothers
                        in arms, the Officers and Privates of the U. S. Troops.—We have often
                            heard. … We have now seen what YANKEE'S CAN DO!
               13. That in obeying our country's call we shall feel a proud satisfaction in being
                        associated with 
                     
                                Kentucky
                             volunteers.
               14. That the above resolutions be inserted in the Western Sun—and
                        that such Printers as may give publicity to the Address above mentioned, be requested to publish
                        also the aforesaid resolutions.
            
            LUKE DECKER, Chairman.3
            
            B. PARKE, Clerk.
            We understand that Col. JOHN P. BOYD has obtained a Furlough, and will leave this for the Eastward
                    next week— 
                  
                     3
                            Western Sun, December 14, 1811. Stout did not print the address to Boyd in
                            the numbers of the paper which followed shortly after November 25, the date of the address.
                            For reasons best known to himself, he did not print it until January 4, 1812; however, he
                            did announce the meeting of the militia officers called for December 7 in the Western Sun, November 30, 1811. At this time Parke was judge of the general court
                            and Decker of the court of common pleas. Journals of the General Assembly of
                                Indiana Territory, 999-1002, 964-966.
               
                     we think it highly proper that the Officers under his command
                    should present him a complimentary address for his great attention to the Regiment, and the skill he
                    discovered in bringing them to the high state of discipline which they possess, together with the
                        unity and harmony he has preferred in his
                    Regiment—but should they refuse, we think it would well comport with military etiquette
                    that a similar address should be presented by the Sergeants of the Regiment. The thing might be done
                    in this way—Let the Colonel prepare a Farewell order, without date or signature, together
                    with an answer to suit his own palate; give them a supper in some public house, and entrust the Sergeant-major with the execution of the plan—after supper when they
                    have become warm, and their spirits elevated with the Colonels hospitality, the Farewell order can
                    be produced and read in which they will be highly praised—after which the answer may be
                    produced for their signatures; we cannot suppose but the thing would take, but should it fail, and
                    some prove refractory, they can prepare another, better to suit their own ideas from the one
                    previously read.
            We cannot withold from the Colonel our sense of his merit and the great loss our country will sustain by being deprived of his
                    services.—Should there be a second expedition against the Indians, the Man, who by his
                        personal skill and bravery decided the action of the 7th November, and took
                    with his own hands the war club of their great warrior, the magic
                    cup of the Prophet, and the scalp of a Chief, together with a number of other acts of bravery
                    not necessary here to mention, but which will forever immortalize the HERO.4
            
            ANOTHER BATTLE on the 
                            Wabash
                        , or Colonel JOHN P. BOYD'S DEFEAT!!
            In the attack made by the Great Chief on Sunday last upon the poor Printer, he
                    displayed none of that skill in military tactics of which she [sic] has so often
                    boasted, nor any of that personal bravery of which he so much vaunts—nothing can be more
                    plain than his lack of military knowledge, as all will agree, had he conducted the expedition with
                        
                  
                     4
                            Western Sun, January 18, 1812. This is the editorial to which Boyd took
                            particular exception.
               
                     even common judgment, he must have been victorious. No man who
                    has the least idea of military affairs will believe that with an army of disciplined troops
                    consisting of two to one, opposed to raw and undisciplined
                    militia, can be defeated unless from cowardice, or a lack of generalship in the
                    commander.—Yet Col. BOYD, with all the advantages on his side suffered himself to be defeated.—Shame, shame on the Colonel—Yes, I hear my country
                    cry out shame!!—The causes which led to hostilities of the parties, and
                    a correct statement of the battle is as follows.
            On Sunday the 19th about 1 o'clock, the Colonel drew up his forces after
                    the old Roman manner, or perhaps in the Maratta mode of warfare, as we are told he
                    pretends to have commanded a brigade in that service for a number of years.—There was no
                    fire arms used in the contest, the parties fought hand to hand,
                    but unfortunately the Colonel had lost or mislaid his shield, and the hair having deserted his
                    crown, his head suffered considerably in the contest.—The Colonel is accused of a great
                    want of military skill in conducting the expedition, or a most egregerous want of courage, otherwise he must have came off victorious, his force being two
                    to one to that of the Printer. The Printer acknowledges himself to be extremely ignorant of military
                    tactics, especially of this mode of warfare, both as to theory and
                    practice—but no man can suppose that JOHN P. BOYD, who was honored with the command of
                    the 4th United States Regiment, because of his long experience in military
                    affairs, after having spent the greater part of his most invaluable life in the
                        tented field, could be charged with deficiency on that score.—The
                    Colonel, it seems had taken umbrage at a publication which appeared in last Saturdays paper, and
                    commissioned Eastman and Bacon as plenipotentiaries to demand of
                    the Printer the author of the publication; this however, the Printer refused to
                    gratify them in, as they were neither named nor alluded to in the
                    piece—they returned to the Colonel with this decisive answer, who in about fifteen
                    minutes afterwards, accompanied by Bacon and his Orderly, knocked at the door of
                    the Printer, who opened it and politely invited them in, not in the least suspecting but that the
                    sanctuary of his house would shield him from brutal violence) and desired them to be seated, the
                    latter they declined.—The Colonel "brim full of wrath and cabbage," in
                    an authoritative tone, demanded the author of  the
                    piece—the Printer with mildness and a smile natural to him, answered, "you may
                    consider me as the author."—Now began the dreadful
                    conflict!—The Colonel having a stick in his hand, made the first pass at the Printer who
                    was sitting on the table.—Bets running high, five to one in favor of the Colonel.
            The Printer instantly colored the Colonel, took his stick from him, made a pass, and hit the Colonel
                    with his own stick—bets even, some offering odds in favor of the Printer.
            
               Bacon, feeling his master would be caned with his own cane,
                    seized the Printer round the body and arms—but Mars had decreed that Lieut. Robert Buntin
                    (of the militia) should be present, who seeing two well trained Regulars opposed to one poor, raw,
                    undisciplined militia man, hauled off Bacon—the Colonel finding himself deprived of the
                    further use of his body de reserve instantly commenced his retreat.—No bets, to be
                    had-ten to one in favor of the Printer.
            Here the Colonel certainly shewed his want of military skill in conducting a retreat, which was made in the utmost confusion and disorder, either from the bad arrangement
                    of his force or some other cause, cowardice more likely.—It was in vain
                    the Colonel attempted by signs, gestures, wild, and frightful looks, to rally his corps
                        de reserve to a second attack, but off they scampered helter skelter, with just presence of
                    mind enough left in their great agitation to tell the Printer "they would see
                        him again," merely we suppose, as a compliment for their abrupt departure. As it
                    is somewhere recorded, that 
                        
                            "He who fights and runs away May live to fight another day; But he who
                                is in battle can'd Will ne'er return to fight again!"
                        
                     Surely the idea conveyed in the above lines must have had full possession of the Colonels
                    mind on the occasion, if we may judge from the care and precautions he afterwards took to
                    "keep out of harms way," and of his precipitate retreat.
            Does not, or is not every one ready to cry out shame! that such an experienced
                    officer who has so highly boasted of his superior skill and abilities, should be thus ingloriously defeated, by a man who had never seen a
                        "tented field?"—Can such a man be trusted with the defence of
                    our common  country? Has he talents adequate to a corporals
                    command? The Printer pronounces he has not!!5
            
            CANTONMENT
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       Vincennes
                                    
                                 ,
                           
                                    January 20th, 1812.
                                
                        Having since the formation of our corps been placed under the command of col. John P.
                                    Boyd, and witnessed the ardent solicitude evinced by him for our respective
                                    interests and honor, as blended with the honor and reputation of the 4th U. States
                                    regiment of infantry—we should justly be considered as destitute of every
                                    military principle both of propriety and duty, as well as manly feeling, were we to
                                    omit this public avowal of the detestation with which we view the various
                                    publications that have been made in the news-paper of this place called the Western
                                    Sun, evidently intended to cause dissentions in the corps. The abusive and vulgar
                                    piece contained in the paper of Saturday last, together with others we have before
                                    observed, having the same object have excited our indignation, and we declare that
                                    we view them as scurrilous attempts to degrade and lessen the consequence of our
                                    commanding officer, and to deprive him of the respect due his character.
                        
                                    (Signed)
                                    G. W. PRESCOTT, Capt. 4th Regt. Infty.
                                    R. C. BARTON, Capt. 4th Infty.
                                    O. G. BURTON Lt. 4th Infty.
                                    C. LARRABEE, Lt. 4th Infty.
                                    EBEN. WAY, Lt. 4th Infty.
                                    J. L. EASTMAN, Lt. & A. Agt. 4th Infty.
                                    BENJn. HILL, Lt. 4th Infty.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  5
                        Ibid., January 25, 1812. J. L. Eastman and Josiah Bacon were lieutenants in
                        the Fourth Infantry Regiment; see the following document. Robert Buntin was clerk of the county
                        court of 
                            Knox County
                        . Journals of the General Assembly of Indiana Territory,
                    passim.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                        GEORGE P. PETERS, Lt. 4th Infty.
                        LEAVIS PECKHAM, Lt. 4th Infty.
                        JOSIAH BACON, Lt. & Quarter Master 4th Infty.
                        GEORGE GOODING, Lt. 4th Infty.
                     
                  
               
                
            The evidences of the above charges are before the public, they can judge for themselves, whether a
                    single expression in any of them can be construed to imply or embrace the regiment, to produce
                    disagreeable sensations in the breast of any of its members, (col. Boyd only excepted) or produce
                    dissentions in the corps—but as they, or a part of them, have thought it necessary to
                    declare that to have been their ideas as to the views of the pieces, I have no hesitation in saying
                    that I respect at least a great part of the regiment as gentlemen and as soldiers, that nothing
                    could be farther from my wish than to produce party dissentions, or destroy that harmony and good
                    understanding which is so necessary in military bodies; that they were aimed at col. Boyd alone,
                    who, I shall always believe deserved at least all that was said.
            With respect to the resolutions adopted by the militia of this county, and those of the volunteers
                    from 
                        Kentucky
                    , embraced in the above general censure, it would be presumption in me to make any
                    remarks.
            EDITOR.6
            
            Several of the papers which have published the letter of Boyd and Prescott,7 have
                    expatiated on the misconduct of our militia. The address from Messrs. Vander Burgh, Johnson, Ewing,
                    Badolett, 
                        Caldwell
                     and M'Intosh, has been published with the letter. These gentlemen deny the
                    militia pretentions to any sort of discipline—the colonel and his disciple assert that
                    they are dastardly cowards.—Shades of the gallant 
                        Warrick
                    , of White, of 
                        Randolph
                    , of Mahan, of M'Coy, and the other brave men who fell when valiently
                    performing your duty, do you not frown indignant upon your 
                  
                     6
                            Western Sun, January 25, 1812.
                  
                     7 Boyd's letter to the Secretary of War, dated December 11,
                            1811, claimed that the victory at 
                                Tippecanoe
                             was due to the efforts of the
               
                     comrades for suffering your memories and their own characters
                    to be thus insulted?
            What a fine opinion must the British and their Indian allies have of our militia, when they hear of
                    the address of the gentlemen of 
                        Vincennes
                    , and col. Boyd's letter to the Secretary of War. Poor militia! what will
                    become of them if the regular troops should be withdrawn, or if they should have to fight where
                    there are neither waggons nor trees.8
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Vincennes
                                 ,
                           
                                    
                              24th Feb. 1812.
                                
                        Sir,
                        A Letter to the Secretary of War signed by Col. Boyd and Capt. Prescott, of the 4th U. S. regiment, and which was first published
                                    in the 
                                        Aurora
                                     and republished in most of the papers upon the continent, having
                                    appeared also in your paper, I enclose you a correspondence which past between Capt.
                                    Prescott and myself on the subject, as well as the answers of several of the
                                    officers of the 4th U. S. regiment, to queries proposed by me similar to those
                                    addressed to Capt Prescott on the 9th inst.—By these it will appear how
                                    far the Militia, who were in the action of 
                                        Tippecanoe
                                    , have merited those severe animadversions upon their conduct in which
                                    the Colonel and the Captain have thought proper to indulge
                                    themselves.—There were in the action, exclusively of the Dragoons, ten
                                    companies of militia, or volunteers, for each company partook of both these
                                    characters. It will be seen that Capt. 
                              regular troops in spite of the "dastardly" conduct of
                                            some of the militia units. Boyd justified his special report to the War
                                            Department because of "various paragraphs contained in newspapers
                                            published here [
                                                Vincennes
                                            ] and in the neighboring towns." His wish was merely to
                                            "correct the many errors contained in these publications."
                                            This justification seems weak when it is noted that the Western
                                                Sun was the only newspaper in 
                                                Vincennes
                                            , and that by December 11 it had not yet printed the address of
                                            the militia officers, the address of Van der Burgh, Johnson, et
                                                al., or any of the other documents, nor had Stout taken up his pen
                                            on the matter. Of course, Boyd probably knew of the addresses mentioned but
                                            not because they had been published in newspapers at 
                                                Vincennes
                                            . Boyd's letter to the Secretary of War appears in the
                                                Western Sun, February 8, 1812.
                              
                                 8
                                            Ibid., February 15, 1812. At this time Nathaniel Ewing was
                                            receiver in the land office in 
                                                Vincennes
                                            , while John Caldwell had been a member of the territorial house
                                            of representatives in 1810 and 1811. William McIntosh was a former treasurer
                                            of the territory. Journals of the General Assembly of Indiana
                                                Territory, 770n, 962, 51n and passim. An
                                            explanation of the reference to "waggons and trees" is
                                            found in Harrison's letter to Stout, which follows.
                           
                                     Prescott and all the other officers who have
                                    answered my queries, admit that of these, Biggers and Robbs companies alone
                                    abandoned their posts.—Lieut. Peters indeed says that a small company or
                                    detachment under the command of Capt. Beck, also gave way, but this detachment which
                                    was attached to Geigers company consisted on nine men only. It will be observed too
                                    that all these gentlemen admit that the other companies behaved with distinguished
                                    bravery, and that Robbs company, after it had fallen back from its first position
                                    was rallied and taken to a post of greater danger, where it not only retrieved its
                                    reputation, but established a character for bravery equal to that of any other
                                    company in the army.-As Capt. Prescott has acknowledged that the observations
                                    contained in his and the Colonels letter with regard to whole companies abandoning
                                    their posts, had reference to Biggers and Robbs only, the conduct of the former
                                    alone in this respect remains to be examined. It will be seen by the letter of Capt.
                                    Adams, who acted as Adjutant to the army, that this company was so unfavorably
                                    placed as to be subjected to an attack in front flank and rear by the enemy. As my
                                    design by this address is not to criminate anyone, but merely to defend the militia
                                    from what I consider an unjust attack; I shall not stop to enquire into the reason
                                    of their being so placed, or by whose mistake it was done. It is enough for the
                                    exoneration of the company to state and prove the fact. And let me ask, what company
                                    of regulars or irregulars could have stood in
                                    that situation. I blame them only for not rallying behind some of the other
                                    companies as Robbs did, but for this also they have an excuse, Their captain
                                    commanded the main guard and was of course not with them, and from the direction
                                    that the attack was made upon the left flank, it is probable that they were obliged
                                    to retreat some distance down the front line before they could get within the
                                    encampment. Under such circumstances and in such darkness, it is not surprising that
                                    they were much broken and scattered-I have been told and believe, that most of the
                                    men joined other companies, and that as soon as the day broke the greater part of
                                    them embodied. The conduct of these two companies then, one of which was entirely
                                    without the lines and formed no part of them, is the sole pretext for the assertion
                                    "that the dastardly conduct of some whole militia companies led to exposure
                                    and consequent loss of the life of some of the militia  officers, whose men deserting the lines were seen
                                    behind trees and waggons where many were actually killed." That some of the
                                    militia took refuge behind trees and waggons I have not the least doubt, I found
                                    some myself in that situation, but I do believe that the number was comparatively
                                    trifling. The statement of capt. Adams very properly accounts for the number being
                                    supposed greater than it really was. But in my enquiries to ascertain whether any
                                    were killed in that situation, I have not met with a single individual (capt.
                                    Prescott excepted) who ever heard of the fact. That "some of the militia
                                    officers lost their lives by their men deserting the lines," is a most
                                    extraordinary assertion, as the returns will shew that those companies which are
                                    accused of behaving badly had no officer killed or wounded, the loss of officers
                                    being entirely confined to the companies which were admitted "to have
                                    displayed the most distinguished bravery." —Why was this mistake
                                    made more than a month after the action? Capt. Prescott says that he was
                                    unacquainted with the names of the Captains—But was Col. Boyd ignorant of
                                    the companies which composed his brigade? The battle of Tippicanoe has attracted
                                    much of the public attention, the people however must be fatigued with the numerous
                                    newspaper discussions to which it has given rise. I regret the necessity I am under
                                    of adding to them; but it was impossible that I could disregard the various and
                                    urgent considerations which called upon me to make this statement. The vindication
                                    of the fame of those patriots and heroes who fought and suffered by my side would be
                                    a sufficient motive; but it appears to me that the American character is deeply
                                    concerned in the affair, and my fellow citizens will not be uninterested in a
                                    discussion which established the fact that our countrymen have not degenerated, that
                                    they still possess the undaunted valor of their ancestors. I could more easily have
                                    forgiven any reflection, however unjust, upon the living—but I never can
                                    forgive those cruel and unmerited reflections upon the memories of those gallant
                                    mortals who fell so gloriously and so disinterestedly, whose bodies are now exposed
                                    to be mangled by beasts of prey, & their bones whitened by the dews and
                                    winds of heaven. … Unhappy men! you have been deprived of your graves by
                                    the savages, but your Commanding Officer still more cruel, would
                                    strip you of your good name, & consign your memories to reproach. Your
                                    relations too are to be deprived of the  only
                                    consolation that remains to them. Their griefs were lightened by the reflection that
                                    you died in the discharge of your duty & in the bed of honor, they are now
                                    called upon to believe that you died "as a fool dieth," fugitives
                                    from your posts, and under the influence of the most cowardly fears. But while I
                                    have life my voice at least shall be raised against every attempt to insult your
                                    ashes or tarnish the glory you have acquired.
                        
                                    
                                        William H. Harrison
                                        9
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  9
                        Western Sun, April 18, 1812. A series of inquiries of officers of the Fourth
                        Regiment to which Harrison alludes accompanied this letter; they were printed in the same
                    issue.
            
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages
            Genealogy
            Both correspondence and conversations have indicated that there is much interest in genealogy among
                    the readers of the Indiana Magazine of History who are also members of the Indiana
                    Historical Society. If the increase in population continues as anticipated—and especially
                    if the number of persons in the upper age brackets continues to soar—presumably this
                    interest in genealogy will likewise grow.
            Genealogy and history are common interests for numerous individuals, but history of course
                    encompasses far more than that embraced within genealogy. The editor does not consider himself
                    adequately qualified to edit the usual genealogical materials, but he hopes to publish such items
                    from time to time as has been done heretofore. He has had and is carrying on correspondence and
                    discussions about possible arrangements concerning the pages in the Magazine which
                    concern genealogy. If all goes well, either the forthcoming December or March issue will indicate
                    the results of these efforts which it is believed will be in keeping with the traditions of the Magazine and also of considerable aid to those who have a particular interest in
                    genealogy.
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            The membership of the Indiana Historical Society is at an all-time high, now approaching 2,400. There
                    is reason for satisfaction in this achievement, but the total should be pushed above the 2,500 mark
                    during the next few months. Then during the ensuing year the membership committee might perhaps
                    strive for a membership of 3,000.
            With the sesqui-centennial of statehood only about a decade away the achievement of a membership
                    roster of at  least 5,000 should be an accomplished fact in
                    advance of this sesqui-centennial in 1966.
            Such growth in quantity should enable the Indiana Historical Society to increase its effectiveness
                    and it should also make it possible for the History Department of Indiana University, which
                    publishes the Magazine, to sustain and publish a quarterly which could gradually
                    gain in quality and perhaps also grow in size as well.
            But growth in membership makes it exceedingly difficult to estimate the run required per issue. In
                    fact, the March issue has already been exhausted. If any of you no longer need your copy of this
                    issue we would be grateful for its return for use in making copies available to libraries, to those
                    who maintain a file of the Magazine, and to new members so far as this can be
                    done. We appreciate the aid of the editor of the Indiana History Bulletin in
                    indicating such needs and we acknowledge with thanks the copies already made available.
            Members of the Indiana Historical Society automatically receive the Indiana Magazine of
                        History, as well as other publications, including valuable books which the Society
                    distributes from time to time. Memberships are receivable at the office of the Society, 140 North
                    Senate Avenue, 
                        Indianapolis
                     4, Indiana. Annual dues are $3.00, while those joining at mid-year are
                    requested to pay $4.50 for an eighteen months' period. Checks should be made
                    payable to the Indiana Historical Society.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            Pioneer Painters of Indiana. By Wilbur D. Peat. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Art Association of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana, 1954, pp. xx, 254. Illustrations, bibliography, roster of painters, and
                    index. $7.50.)
            Hoosiers are rich in self-knowledge. Few other states, perhaps none, can boast of so many studies of
                    their historical and cultural aspects. The publishing program of the State Historical Bureau, the
                    Indiana Historical Society, the university presses, and even trade publishers has encouraged the
                    preparation and issuance of a bio-bibliography of Indiana authors, bibliographies of eminent
                    writers, biographies of prominent Hoosiers, interpretations of the state's culture, a state
                    history and state guide book, an account of the capital city, the prehistoric era of Indiana, the
                    Indians and the pioneers, special groups and localities—until it is a real problem to
                    determine what has been neglected and deserves study today. Now the state is blessed with the
                    findings of Wilbur D. Peat about early Indiana artists.
            Peat began his investigations years ago, and his unrelenting pursuit of information has almost always
                    been re-warded. Much of his digging has been original research, by car, on foot, personal
                    interviews, and correspondence. His dedication to his task has rescued many pioneer artists from
                    undeserved obscurity. As a result he is able to reconstruct the rather astonishing parade of artists
                    who penetrated and some-times settled in Indiana, and by implication the widespread interest in art
                    in a pioneering period. Hoosiers, who have never apologized for their culture, may even preen
                    them-selves on the reception and encouragement they gave to artists and the schools or colonies of
                    painting that developed.
            After long consideration on how to organize his diversified material, the author adopted a fresh and
                    logical arrangement. Rather than catalogue the artists in encyclopedic fashion, or relate a strictly
                    chronological story jumping about the state, he begins with an account of the earliest tourist
                    painters who happened to pass through Indiana. Then he takes up certain districts, in rough
                    chronological sequence, and discusses the artists who settled or developed there. He begins with the 
                        Vincennes
                    -
                        New Harmony
                     region, drops to the Ohio 
                    River, moves up to south-central Indiana, passes to southeastern Hoosierdom, leaps to
                    northern Indiana, and concentrates on 
                        Indianapolis
                     last. The period covered extends from the Wabash River sketches
                    made by Col. Henry Hamilton in 1778 (while he advanced to his fateful encounter with George Rogers
                    Clark at 
                        Vincennes
                    ) to about 1885, when the members of the Indiana colony in 
                        Munich
                     began to return to their home state. Their highly trained skills marked the end of the
                    pioneer phase of Indiana art. An alphabetical roster of painters active in Indiana from 1800 to
                    1885, with biographical summaries, forms a useful appendix. The book also contains a bibliography,
                    an index, and is enriched by eighty-four illustrations!
            The book has greater significance, however, than adding considerable light to the history and
                    development of Indiana art. By this intensive study in one state, Peat has afforded us a view of how
                    art must have been practiced in other new states of the Middle West. Moreover, we now have for
                    perhaps the first time a clear conception of how art was received in pioneer times. The prevailing
                    theory has been that opening a new country, with its attendant political, military, and economic
                    absorption, did not permit time or money for appreciation of the arts. Yet one is now hard put to it
                    to explain how certain artists were able to earn a living exclusively by art in small and new
                    communities of Indiana, other than by admitting that enough people did patronize them. Since a
                    sufficient market does not always exist today, it would appear that we must revise our thinking
                    about the lack of culture near the frontier.
            Peat's book enlarges and supplants the work on Indiana artists done by Mary Q. Burnet in
                    1921. Moreover, he maintains a judicious perspective throughout, never inflating the competent
                    artist into a genius nor yet dismissing primitive painters with contempt. It is the same
                    sympathetic, even temper that has endeared him as director of the John Herron Art Museum in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Publication of this notable work by the Art Association of 
                        Indianapolis
                     was made possible by a grant from Lilly Endowment, which perceived the significance of
                    making permanent and readily available the findings in this field of Indiana history. Both deserve
                    the thanks of art historians as well as of all Hoosiers.
            
               University of 
                            Michigan
                        
                Howard H. Peckham
         
         
         
            
               Knickerbocker Birthday: A Sesqui-Centennial History of the New-York Historical
                        Society, 1804-1954. By R. W. G. Vail. (
                        New York
                    : The New-York Historical Society, 1954, pp. xix, 547. Illustrations and index.
                    $6.00.)
            A historical society, nowadays, is generally dedicated to the idea of encouraging a historical
                    interest in the minds of all citizens living within its particular bailiwick. Diligent study of the
                    people, customs, and institutions, runs the argument, will help the individual understand the
                    relationship between local people and events and the larger pattern of development in the 
                        United States
                    . By studying the specific and local we are able to move, with more comprehension, to
                    the general and the regional or national.
            Take an institution, for example, say the advocates of state and local history. Find out its history,
                    relate it to the larger historical and geographical picture of similar institutions and then tell
                    the story in such a way that the "average reader" will not lay it down before he
                    finishes.
            Few historical societies, however, heed their own exhortations. Very few people, it seems, write
                    histories of historical societies. Those who do, write them more as propaganda pieces than as case
                    studies of the role of the historical society as a vehicle for dissemination of
                    knowledge—competent, significant, and interesting historical knowledge.
            During the last twenty years, many societies have been content with mere brochures which outline in
                    sketchy form the key dates and names usually identified with the organization's success,
                    together with a few outstanding collections. Making History Live, The Story of the
                        Vermont Historical Society by John McDill; The New Hampshire Historical
                        Society; Stewart Mitchell's Handbook of the Massachusetts Historical Society,
                        1791-1948; The Historical Society of 
                            Pennsylvania
                        ; and 125 Years of the Connecticut Historical Society, 1825-1950 are examples
                    of this type of publication. Floyd C. Shoemaker's The State Historical Society
                        of 
                            Missouri
                        
                was a little more intensive.
            We can now add to the extremely skimpy bookshelf of historical society histories one of the first
                    full-length treatments of a historical agency—the New-York Historical Society, emanating
                    from the society as part of its sesquicentennial celebration in 1954.
            
            In many respects, however, Vail's enlarged story takes on many of the defective
                    characteristics of earlier and smaller histories of historical societies. Other than the vast amount
                    of detail he included, Vail might as well have told his story in brochure-length publication. For
                    one searching for obscure details or for one who does not have the society's catalog at
                    hand, the volume may serve as a rich source. Long lists of members and page after page of art,
                    manuscript, and book collections (all carefully indexed) provide the kind of detail which will
                    undoubtedly cause happiness among members and close friends of the society but which, at the same
                    time, will discourage many outside the select circle from attempting to wade through the amassed
                    statistics and lists. Vail's excellent training in bibliography is in evidence as he
                    gathers together his facts—with one notable exception. On p. 350 where he lists other
                    great collectors of Americana he includes Lyman C. Draper "whose great collection of
                    Western manuscripts is at the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    ." The statement is close to the truth. The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , a separate state agency which owns and services the Draper manuscripts, is on the
                    university campus.
            The first two-thirds of the book is chronological, each chapter covering the period of one of the
                    illustrious presidents of the society. Gouverneur Morris, DeWitt Clinton, Hamilton Fish, and Albert
                    Gallatin were some of the nationally famous men to hold the high office. Before getting down to
                    summarizing events, Vail spends a few paragraphs giving the background of the period to be covered
                    in the chapter. Unfortunately, the brief history amounts to a bibliographical list of events.
            The following excerpt (p. 60) from the background paragraphs for the period 1820-1827 is staggering
                    in its thumb-nailed all-inclusiveness: "The Monroe Doctrine was declared; the Government
                    built its first lighthouse; 
                        Maine
                     and 
                        Missouri
                     became States; 
                        Florida
                     became a Territory with Andrew Jackson as Governor; Mexico won its independence from 
                        Spain
                     and allowed Moses Austin's colony to settle in 
                        Texas
                    ; and 
                        Liberia
                     was founded. The Erie Canal was completed with a great celebration; 
                  Maryland, Ohio
               , and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     began canal building; the first American-made locomotive was built by John Stevens; the
                    Baltimore and Ohio Railroad was incorporated; and ninety percent of American  shipping was carried in American bottoms. Joseph Dixon invented a
                    machine for the manufacture of lead pencils; 
                        Boston
                     began the first American high school; the Youth's Companion
                    commenced its hundred years of publication. …" and so on and so on.
            The last third of the book is given over to accounts of distinguished people who have belonged and
                    contributed to the society, and a long chapter about "Elegant Dinners and Eloquent
                    Diners." Throughout, Vail gives generous donors their due-in generous detail. Quite often
                    he shows rare candor as when he notes that the presidency of Gouverneur Morris "gave the
                    society considerable prestige" (p. 47) though Morris never presided at a meeting. Or when
                    he points out that in 1827 the society elected the entire state legislature to membership.
            As a handbook of facts, Knickerbocker Birthday will be an addition to
                    one's library; as a meaningful story of the role of a historical agency, it falls short of
                    a historian's standards.
            
               State Historical Society of 
                            Wisconsin
                        
                Donald R. McNeil
         
         
            
               Making Democracy a Reality: Jefferson, Jackson, and Polk. By
                    Claude G. Bowers. (
                  Memphis: Memphis
                State College Press, 1954, pp. x, 170. $3.75.)
            These lectures make up a group of charming and interesting essays. They display Bowers's
                    well-known literary qualities of intense and detailed study, homely and striking illustrations, and
                    a partisan concern for the reputation of his heroes. His method involves setting forth a condition
                    of trouble facing the Republic, and, in this case, the manner in which each one of his protagonists
                    checkmated dangers to democracy, while on the other hand advancing democratic principles and
                    practice. Bowers is not only partisan, but partisan in the most political sense; several of his most
                    interesting pages constitute a defense of parties and politics. His present volume could almost be
                    issued as a campaign document by one of the two major political parties; it will not here be
                    revealed which one.
            The question is what this kind of bias does to Bowers's history. Does it make a caricature
                    of reality? Is it calculated to deceive uninitiated readers? Does one tire of the author's
                    untiring admiration for Jefferson, Jackson, and Polk? Worse still, is one able to predict his
                    attitudes toward their views  and operations? The first thing
                    the patient and friendly reader will note is that Bowers's method does produce certain
                    valid results. His awareness of differences and passions in American political life, his desire to
                    set forth what seems to him the palpable truth, give him energy and variety in research. His desire
                    to explain and defend the 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     Resolutions of Jefferson and 
                        Madison
                    , for example, sets off a vivid and elaborate description of the manner in which the
                    Alien and Sedition Acts were conceived, the threat they posed to democratic life and anticipations,
                    the cruel fashion in which they were administered. To be sure, the Jefferson and 
                        Madison
                     resolutions had a strong tendency, if nothing more, to impugn constitutional processes,
                    too; but one has refreshed his sense of the serious challenge to civil liberties which Federalist
                    party leaders had underwritten, and the excitement attending the "Great
                    Revolution" of 1800 which swept Jefferson into the presidency.
            Of course, if the reader should not happen to be aware of the determined attack which the Jefferson
                    administration made on the rights and privileges of the Supreme Court, it would be difficult for him
                    to put it into the balance of Jefferson's services to democracy and the Constitution; for
                    he will not read about it in Bowers's pages. There is no doubt that he is best read in
                    company with some more temperate scholar. But his eloquence is stimulating, is, in its fashion,
                    informative, and involves a consistency of execution which can be quite useful and even, to some
                    degree, self-correcting. Bowers makes no secret of his likes and dislikes. It is also evident that
                    he prefers to emphasize some points, rather than others. The curious and alert reader will wonder
                    why. He will wonder why, for example, Bowers has rather vaguely indicated that Alexander Hamilton
                    was "a genius of a very high order," if his party was leading us toward
                    totalitarian-ism; what may not have been included in his manifestly loose defense of Polk's
                    leadership, in the crisis with Mexico which ended in a war; what is meant by his saying that Jackson
                    "cut the red tape of diplomacy in the fight in 
                        Florida
                    ." Bowers, incidentally, takes particular pains to answer to his own
                    satisfaction his question: Why was James K. Polk one of the great American presidents? He hopes that
                    "the time will come when a statue of heroic proportions will be raised in 
                        San Francisco
                     facing the Golden Gate, from which he never took his eyes until that beautiful city and
                    great port  unfurled the American flag to the breezes of the
                    Pacific sea." One can for himself add up Bowers's evidence, and judge the validity
                    of this dream.
            Two general observations about Bowers's method and point of view seem in order. In the first
                    place, his emphasis upon character and conflict, though they make for vivid and interesting reading,
                    seem to do so at the expense of underlying factors. He sees Jefferson as a great democrat, scarcely
                    at all as a product and leader of the agricultural interest in the nation. He sees the low tariff
                    view as representing justice and humanity, not at all as, among other things, reflecting differences
                    between southern and Democratic, as opposed to Federalist, politics. He sees Jackson as marshaling
                    forces to make an end of, of all things, personal government. It is the People who are in control
                    during that great figure's administration. Perhaps. And perhaps he represented all that was
                    manly, honest, and democratic-this gentle constitutionalist who regretted that he had been unable to
                    shoot 
                        Clay
                     and hang Calhoun. But Bowers, who believes in politics-who believes that it represents
                    our insurance against totalitarianism-must also realize that Jackson was not raised high for his
                    personal qualities alone, but also because an amalgam of social and economic tendencies found him
                    preferable in the White House to others.
            Secondly, Bowers, in retailing the democratic convictions of his major figures, almost entirely
                    forgets to mention the Negro and slavery. He passes with the lightest of sentences over the gag rule
                    which was intended to stifle discussion of the great American problem, and mentions neither the
                    Whigs nor the Democrats who fought it to its death. He refers to the "fanatic,
                    irresponsible crusade of the abolitionists," but does not make clear whether he is
                    including in his strictures John Quincy Adams, James G. Birney, the Tappan brothers, Salmon P.
                    Chase, Samuel G. Howe, William H. Seward, Charles O. Dana, Theodore Parker, and the hosts of others
                    who fought to preserve civil liberties, communication, democratic processes of government, and
                    social action. His lectures are stimulating, forceful, entertaining, and they serve to remind us
                    that Americans have differing interests and compulsions which, up to a point, need to be taken into
                    account, and occasionally, discounted.
            
               Antioch College Louis Filler.
         
         
         
            
               Supreme Court and Supreme Law. Edited by Edmond Cahn. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1954, pp. ix, 250. List of cases and index.
                    $4.00.)
            When one knows what a document says and means, then one may intelligently determine whether the
                    document should be amended to conform with what one prefers that it say and mean. First, there must
                    be power to amend. Second, of course, someone must determine the document's meaning. With
                    respect to the power to amend, the 
                        United States
                     Constitution provided for its own amendment. The picture remained to be completed, and,
                    in 1803, Chief Justice John Marshall, in determining who should determine what the Constitution
                    means, announced that the natural and intended instrument for this purpose was the Supreme Court. In
                        Marbury v. Madison, John Marshall held that, since the Constitution did not
                    warrant Congress' enacting a statute conferring upon the Supreme Court the authority to
                    issue writs of mandamus to public officers, the statute so enacted was null and void. Thus did the
                    Supreme Court, fourteen years after ratification of the Constitution, first assert its power of
                    judicial review of the validity of acts of Congress.
            This book is commemorative of that occasion. Coincidentally, the year 1953, when the portions of the
                    volume were first assembled, was also the tercentennial of the first modern written
                    constitution-Oliver Cromwell's Instrument of Government. Professor Edmond Cahn, the editor,
                    professor of law at New York University, has collated and assembled in this book a series of short
                    discussions, papers, and major articles delivered at a group of meetings at the New York University
                    School of Law in 1953. The contributors are a distinguished lot of constitutional lawyers indeed,
                    including, in addition to Professor Cahn, Professors Willard Hurst, formerly of the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , now of New York University; Paul A. Freund, Fairchild professor of law, 
                        Harvard
                    ; John P. Frank, associate professor of law, Yale; Ralph F. Bischoff, professor of law
                    and assistant dean, New York University School of Law; and also Charles P. Curtis, a member of the 
                        Massachusetts
                     bar. The purpose of the writers was to study the effect of judicial review on American
                    history since Marbury v. Madison. Specifically, the questions to be answered,
                    according to the preface (p. viii), were: "What 
                    practical, working differences does judicial review make in the contemporary American scene? Has the
                    Supreme Court exercised its power to determine constitutionality too extensively or too narrowly,
                    with wisdom or imprudently? By passing on the validity of laws and executive actions, in what
                    directions does the Court turn the dynamic force of the Constitution?"
            As a collective scholarly articulation of the one hundred years' history of judicial review,
                    the book is excellent. How-ever, no one remotely familiar with the problems of contemporary
                    constitutional law will be surprised to find that the writers generally have difficulty assaying the
                    effect of judicial review and that there is an undercurrent of dissatisfaction with some aspects of
                    judicial review as it has some-times been exercised. Professors Freund and Hurst seem most lenient
                    and satisfied of all, the former excusing the Court (and blaming Congress) for the failure to
                    enforce the civil rights guaranteed by the Civil War amendments, the latter urging that the
                    Court's standing in the way of social legislation in the 1930's lasted only two
                    years, which shows that the Court cannot long deny urgent demands of policy. Professor Frank is
                    dissatisfied with the Court and its hand-ling of civil liberties, and Professor Cahn and Curtis are
                    dissatisfied that the Court has not done more to declare the "immanent component"
                    in constitutional law. Actually the words "immanent law" were used only by Curtis
                    but seem not dissimilar to the import of Professor Cahn's statements. The closest proximity
                    to unanimity to be found in these essays is in the general consensus that the Court has failed to
                    preserve basic liberties, and in the consensus that judicial review cannot be adequately evaluated
                    in the absence of sufficient available factual information. Unanimity on the former is certainly a
                    serious indictment of the Court after one hundred fifty years' experience; unanimity on the
                    latter is certainly a serious indictment of legal scholarship and its persistent failure properly to
                    delve into facts in order intelligently to evaluate the impact of a doctrine upon a people.
                    Professor Hurst particularly laments this lack of factual information in the first footnote of his
                    article in Chapter VI (pp. 216-217).
            Professor Cahn's introductory essay, "An American Contribution," is a
                    brilliant historical piece of work. Tracing the history and content of other written constitutions,
                    he develops the thesis that the 
                        United States
                     Constitution and  judicial review together have
                    evolved a flexible instrument capable of molding itself to the changing currents from 1787 to 1953.
                    Likewise, Professor Freund approvingly refers to the written constitutional provisions as being
                    couched in "calculated generality," thus making for "pragmatic as against
                    nominalistic judgements" (p. 87). Marbury v. Madison announced the
                    supremacy of the judiciary, including the finality of the decision of the Supreme Court and the
                    peculiar function of the Supreme Court as the instrument through which congressional enactments are
                    tested against the Constitution as an image of the American culture. In concluding his essay,
                    Professor Cahn correctly states (p. 25): "[Marbury v. Madison] introduced
                    an unending colloquy between the Supreme Court and the people of the 
                        United States
                    , in which the Court continually asserts, ‘You live under a Constitution but
                    the Constitution is what we say it is,’ and the people incessantly
                    reply, 'As long as your version of the Constitution enables us to live with pride in what
                        we consider a free and just society, you may continue exercising this august,
                    awesome, and altogether revocable authority."
            Charles P. Curtis further carries out the thought of the Court as the mirror of the American scene,
                    and alleges that whatever vagueness there is about present constitutional conceptions, it is due
                    more to the Court's failings than to the founding fathers. Thus, he says, the Court has
                    been inadequate to the task of defining properly the "immanent law" (a
                    Whiteheadian term), which, to Curtis, is the consensus of Americana. The Court must search for this
                    "immanent law," much as Savigny would have us search for our Volksgeist. In the face of the general assumption that the "immanent
                    law" is strictly Anglo-American, Professor Cahn points out, possibly justifiably, a caveat
                    that American society contains a "high proportion of individuals who do not share
                    Anglo-Saxon origins" (p. 63).
            Throughout the volume, one finds the contributors tacitly accepting the conception that Supreme Court
                    decisions in the area of judicial review should be pragmatic, with due considerations to be given
                    the consequences. This is particularly true in the remarks of Professors Freund and Frank, although
                    Professor Bischoff registers some shock over the possibility that the Court has "succumbed
                    to the flexible logic of the pragmatist, using legal concepts and precedent only as support for
                    desired ends" (p. 79). If pragmatism has indeed taken 
                    hold, this will not sit well with those who regard the written Constitution as itself containing all
                    the fundamental legal principles, the search for which is the primary task of the Court and was, in
                    the past, the key to the unaniminty of that bench.
            The most serious criticisms of the Court may be found in the three short discussions immediately
                    following Professor Cahn's introduction. They have to do with status to challenge
                    constitutionality (Bischoff); political questions (Frank); and review of facts in constitutional
                    cases (Freund). In addition, there seems to be a general feeling that the Court is amiss in denying
                    to itself sufficient power to hear constitutional cases, or, after hearing, to decide them in the
                    broadest sense. Such self-limitations as the insistence of an actual "case or
                    controversy" in the traditional sense, narrow requirements of "standing to
                    sue," the refusal to hear "political questions," development of the rule
                    of the "presumption of constitutionality" of acts of Congress—all are
                    deplored by many of the writers here. Professor Freund, however, favors the conventional lawsuit,
                    and worries lest anything else would permit the Court to decide abstract questions rather than
                    tangible legal problems.
            The book is a mine-lode of ideas and is skillfully devised. Indeed, it may very well have an effect
                    so far as working changes in the exercise of judicial review in the future. Certainly it can be said
                    that the contributors to this volume and the Indiana University Press are to be congratulated on
                    providing such a valuable addition to an important portion of our constitutional history.
            
               University of 
                            Buffalo
                        
                David R. Kochery
         
         
            
               The Governors of 
                            Ohio
                        
               . (
                        Columbus
                    : The Ohio Historical Society, 1954, pp. xi, 196. Illustrations. $3.00.)
            Few states possess a handbook containing brief biographical sketches of all their governors. Such a
                    reference guide, if properly compiled with an eye to completeness and objectivity, is an invaluable
                    aid, not only to citizens generally, but also to librarians, newspapermen, business firms, and
                    pupils and scholars. The Ohio Historical Society, carrying on its tradition of service, once again
                    has made a worthwhile contribution with its collection of the lives of the governors of the Buckeye
                    State.
            
            
               The Governors of 
                            Ohio
                        
                presents condensed biographies of fifty-seven leaders written by twenty-six
                    authors. The series begins with the colorful Virginian, Edwin 
                        Tiffin
                    , and concludes with Thomas J. Herbert, whose term ended in 1949. Between these two
                    administrations lies an assemblage of characters, each of whom contributed in some degree to the
                    growth and development of the commonwealth. Even a casual glance at their sketches reveals that all
                    of them were gentle-men of great virtue and possessed of exceptional political talent and acumen.
                    Indeed, some of the interpretations remind this reviewer of the old-fashioned laudatory biographies
                    that appeared toward the close of the nineteenth century in subscription county histories.
            It may be possible to justify in a volume of this type lack of appraisal, but it is difficult indeed
                    to defend omission of essential facts, a defect which mars too many sketches. It is stated, for
                    example, that William Allen was born in 1803, but neither the month or day is given; the year of
                    Thomas Kirker's death is listed, but not the month or day; the month and year of David
                    Tod's death are given but not the day. The place of burial is indicated for some governors,
                    but not for all. Only in some sketches are next of kin named. A quick glance at standard reference
                    works, such as the Dictionary of American Biography or the Biographical Directory of the American Congress, might have enabled authors to fill
                    obvious gaps. It would have been helpful also if the title of a biographical article or book had
                    been appended to each sketch to guide readers to additional information.
            Despite imperfections, these lives of the governors fill a genuine need. Their rapid, over-all
                    coverage furnishes elementary information quickly and within the boards of a single book. The
                    publisher is to be commended for bringing the sketches together in an attractive format. Perhaps
                    other states will be stimulated to compile and publish thumb-nail sketches of their governors.
            
               University of 
                            Minnesota
                        
                Philip D. Jordan
         
         
            
               The Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        
               . Compiled and edited by Clarence E. Carter. Vol. XIX, The
                        Territory of 
                            Arkansas
                        , 1819-1825 (
                  Washington:
                            United States
                Government Printing Office, 1953, pp.
                    xii, 1003. Maps and  index. $6.50.). Vol. XX, The Territory of 
                            Arkansas
                        , 1825-1829 (
                  Washington:
                            United States
                Government Printing Office, 1954, pp.
                    vi, 967. Index. $4.25.)
            These volumes are the first two of a projected three volumes on the territorial papers of Arkansas
                    Territory, 1819-1836. Volume XIX contains Part One, papers relating to the organization of the
                    territory, 1818-1819; Part Two, relating to the administration of Acting Governor Robert Crittenden,
                    1819; Part Three, relating to Governor James Miller's first administration, 1819-1823; Part
                    Four, relating to his second term, 1823; Part Five, relating to Acting Governor
                    Crittenden's second administration, 1823; Part Six, relating to the third term of Acting
                    Governor Crittenden; and Part Seven, the executive register for the territory, 1819-1836. Volume XX
                    begins with Part Eight, a continuation of Acting Governor Crittenden's third
                    administration, 1824-1825; Part Nine, pertaining to the first administration of Governor George
                    Izard, 1825-1828; Part Ten, his second term, 1828; and Part Eleven, relating to the fourth
                    administration of Acting Governor Crittenden, 1828-1829.
            In keeping with the editorial policy set in previous volumes of the general series, the documents
                    included in these two 
                        Arkansas
                     volumes were principally chosen from the collections of the federal departments of
                    State, Treasury, War, Justice, Post Office, and Interior, and from the files of the United States
                    Senate and House of Representatives, most of which are in the National Archives. Some selections
                    came from the manuscripts collection of the Library of Congress, while a few others were secured
                    from the office of the Secretary of State of 
                  Arkansas, Little Rock
               . Much use was
                    made of the 
                        Little Rock
                    
                    
                  
                            Arkansas
                         Gazette for supplementary and explanatory purposes.
            The documents published in these volumes will prove to be, with the possible exception of
                    contemporary newspaper files and of territorial papers located in the 
                        Arkansas
                     History Commission, the most valuable source for the formative period of 
                        Arkansas
                     history. They throw much new light upon a number of problems that faced the pioneer in
                    a frontier region, among others the acquisition of public land, the removal of Indians, the
                    construction of public roads, the establishment of postal services, and the organization of a
                    militia.
            
            Both volumes make readily available biographical material not hitherto easily accessible. A perusal
                    of the books indicates the importance at once of Robert Crittenden, secretary and several times
                    acting governor of Arkansas Territory, of Governor George Izard, of the early judges of the
                    territorial superior court, and of the territorial delegates to the Congress of the 
                        United States
                    . Genealogists will be pleased with the executive register, which contains names of both
                    territorial and local office-holders.
            Documentation and indexing are pleasingly thorough. Clarence Edwin Carter's superior
                    editorial standards established in the previous volumes are fully maintained.
            
               University of 
                            Arkansas
                        
                Walter L. Brown
         
         
            
               Confederate Finance. By Richard Cecil Todd. (
                        Athens
                    : University of Georgia Press, 1954, pp. x, 258. Bibliography and index.
                    $5.00.)
            The history of Confederate finances has always seemed to contain all the elements of a
                    nightmare-frustration at every turn and ultimate futility. Most historians have agreed that no
                    government could have committed more errors in its financial operations than the Confederate
                    government. The detailed and careful works of John C. Schwab, The Con-federate States
                        of America, 1861-1865; A Financial and Industrial History of the South during the Civil War
                    (1901), and Ernest A. Smith's The History of the Confederate Treasury
                    (1901), and numerous books and articles dealing with certain aspects of the subject are fairly well
                    agreed in the assumption that the finances of the Confederacy were managed in the worst possible
                    fashion.
            Professor Todd's Confederate Finance, largely factual, nevertheless seems
                    to the reviewer to present a subtly different point of view. Basing his work on the financial
                    archives of the Confederacy and related documents now assembled and processed in the National
                    Archives and Library of Congress, he presents a far more authentic, penetrating, and objective
                    account than any of his predecessors. The broad outlines of Confederate finance are unchanged by his
                    study; but his painstaking step by step history of each financial move reveals significant
                    differences: (1) that numerous measures later condemned as foolish were adopted as choices of the
                    lesser  evils; and (2) that, while ultimate failure naturally
                    came with the failure of the Confederacy to gain its independence, Confederate finances still had a
                    considerable over-all success. This is demonstrated by the fact that the Confederacy financed one
                    side of the biggest war of modern times until World War I. Professor Todd does not suggest this, but
                    the reviewer has reached the conclusion that our thinking about Confederate finances needs
                    considerable reorientation. A glance at the principal financial expedients that the Confederacy
                    improvised gives the impression of one picking himself up by the bootstraps, or even more drastic,
                    of a person keeping himself warm by burning his own house, plank by plank.
            The Confederate government's domestic financial operations were carried on by several
                    expedients: paper money, bonds, certificates, the impressment of supplies, the tax in kind and in
                    money, private donations and sequestration of the property of citizens of the enemy. The author
                    finds that the Confederate government issued over a billion and a half dollars in paper money, and
                    about three-quarters of a billion dollars in bonds during the four years of its existence. It raised
                    over one hundred and fifty million dollars in money taxes, and at least sixty millions in produce
                    tax or tax in kind. Finally, it impressed about five hundred million dollars' worth of
                    supplies. The figures on tax in kind and the impressment of supplies are very misleading. The
                    supplies were bought at set government prices far below market prices. It is probable that had the
                    market value been placed on the tax in kind—and the supplies impressed by the
                    military—these would have proved to be of more value than the bonds and currency issued.
                    It would be seen here that the Confederacy was "living off the country." Another
                    item in Confederate finance that had an important bearing on the private economy of the South is
                    worthy of further consideration: By purchasing 400,000 bales of cotton and other produce, the
                    Confederacy kept the cotton market alive so that those who so desired could sell their cotton.
            The chief foreign operations were carried on at first by the sale of cotton bonds or certificates,
                    the principal under-taking being the floating of the Erlanger Loan of about $15,000,000,
                    only half of which was finally disposed of. Finally and most successfully, the Confederate
                    government  assumed control of the exporting of cotton and
                    importation of supplies in its own vessels and in those of private companies. As a result, its
                    credit in Europe was better at the end of 1864 than it had been since the spring of 1863, when the
                    Erlanger Loan was made.
            Professor Todd's work cannot be superseded as a factual presentation of Confederate finance,
                    for he has examined all the material and presented it carefully. Any further study of this subject
                    should be in the realm of interpretation.
            
               University of 
                            Alabama
                        
                Frank L. Owsley
         
         
            
               Trucks, Trouble, and Triumph: The Norwalk Truck Line Company. By Wayne G.
                    Broehl, Jr. An Indiana University School of Business Research Report. (
                        New York
                    : Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1954, pp. xiv, 226. Illustrations, bibliography, and index.
                    $5.50.)
            In 1952, Norwalk Truck Lines, serving parts of 
                  Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan
               , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    , rated sixth in the industry in gross revenue and second in tonnage of general freight.
                    Its personnel had earnings, in 1950, almost 11 per cent above those of all workers in the industry.
                    Obviously, an organization capable of achieving such marks is worthy of careful study.
            The business, under the leadership of John Ernsthausen, began as the Norwalk Produce Company which
                    supplied but-ter, eggs, potatoes, and other farm goods to 
                  Toledo, Cleveland, Detroit
               , and intermediate points. In 1923, the independent
                    truckers serving the Produce Company sold their equipment to Ernsthausen. In a short time, trucking
                    was the major operation. During the 1930's, Norwalk Truck Lines expanded rapidly and the
                    produce business was dropped.
            The steady growth of Norwalk Lines in the depression years was typical of the entire industry.
                    Emphasis on reduced inventory, on the purchase of small lots by retailers rather than volume buying,
                    was extremely beneficial to the truckers, who could move small shipments quickly and could deliver
                    directly to the dealer's door.
            Among the major problems of the trucking firm have been the acquisition of routes, the keeping of
                    adequate records, and the maintenance of equipment. The general reader will find that the
                    author's handling of these problems leaves him with much better understanding of the men
                    and methods  behind the huge cargo carriers which roll along the
                    highways.
            About four years ago, 
                        Norwalk
                     made public a plan by which control of the firm would eventually pass to the
                    administrative and clerical employees.
            Broehl's work provides an introduction to one area of business history hitherto almost
                    untouched by writers. It should interest those in the field of historical research who consider the
                    interview an important source of information. There is evidence that the author encountered some
                    difficulty in organizing his material, owing to the fact that the company has grown rapidly, largely
                    without careful planning, and has depended upon the personal direction of a few very energetic and
                    extremely capable leaders.
            
               Indiana State Teachers College R. H. Gemmecke
         
         
            
               The Fifth Amendment Today. By Erwin N. Griswold. (
                        Cambridge
                    : Harvard University Press, 1955, pp. x, 82. $2.00.)
            This widely circulated volume by Dean Griswold of the Harvard Law School has already become
                    influential in relation to its subject. It deals mainly, as its title in the context of contemporary
                    events indicates, with that feature of the Fifth Amendment which confers the so-called privilege
                    against self-incrimination. Because of the timeliness of the subject, it has been printed in both
                    paper-backed and board-covered editions.
            The book consists of three lectures, two of which were delivered before lawyers' groups and
                    one as the Phi Beta Kappa address at Mount Holyoke College. The first and third lectures deal with
                    the history, significance, and interpretation of the self-incrimination clause; the second deals
                    with the concept of due process of law and its application to legislative investigations. All three
                    lectures are written with a clarity that enhances the effectiveness of the accurate scholarship and
                    sound judgment they express. The lay reader will find them easily comprehensible.
            In an important opinion of the Supreme Court in May, 1955, dealing with procedure for invoking and
                    giving effect to the Fifth Amendment in legislative investigations, Chief Justice Earl Warren cited
                    the opening pages of Dean Griswold's  book as
                    presumably the best available summary of the history of the privilege against self-incrimination,
                    which goes back to the twelfth century in 
                        England
                    . Others have spoken and written in the same vein as Dean Griswold on particular aspects
                    of the problem of the Fifth Amendment, but probably no one else has brought together the whole
                    congeries of related issues with equal effectiveness. Of particular significance are his striking
                    examples of situations in which invocation of the Fifth Amendment by witnesses under questioning as
                    to communism does not raise a valid inference of criminal guilt on their part, or even of
                    non-criminal connections with communism. The injustice perpetrated by the stigma of "Fifth
                    Amendment Communist" is thus vividly portrayed.
            Dean Griswold does not compromise with those who would weaken hard-won constitutional guaranties in
                    the pursuit of immediate goals, however urgent. The Fifth Amendment has value, he maintains, not
                    only for the specific protection it affords but also as a symbol of wider aspects of procedural
                    decency. Even though precise distinctions must be drawn in interpreting it, as must be the case
                    whenever a principle is applied to specific situations, it serves as a constant reminder of the
                    integrity of the individual person, which it safeguards. What stage of debasement would we have
                    reached during the anti-Communist crusade of recent years if the constitutional absolute of the
                    Amendment had not been there, requiring obedience? As Dean Griswold states, "It has been
                    one thing which has held quite firm, although something like a juggernaut has pushed upon it. It
                    has, thus, through all its vicissitudes, been a symbol of the ultimate moral sense of the community,
                    upholding the best in us, when otherwise there was a good deal of wavering under the pressures of
                    the times" (p. 73).
            New applications of constitutional principles are needed too in times such as these. In dealing with
                    due process of law in relation to legislative investigations Dean Griswold sets forth some of the
                    principal reforms of committee procedures for which the protection of individuals calls. All in all,
                    his book is a valuable guide to serious thought on some of the basic issues of our times.
            
               Indiana University Ralph F. Fuchs
         
         
         
            
               James Duane Doty: Frontier Promoter. By Alice E. Smith. (
                  Madison, Wisconsin
               : State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1954, pp. x, 472. Illustrations, bibliography, and index. $5.00.)
            Any mention of the frontier these days immediately brings to mind the ubiquitous Davy Crockett and
                    his kind, coonskin-capped and busy at backwoods turkey-shoots hammering nails into stumps at fifty
                    yards with their long rifles, or neatly puncturing the pipe-clayed cross belts of Mexican regulars
                    unfortunate enough to encounter them. The West produced other types, however, and this volume is a
                    solid account of one of these-the frontier promoter. The archetype of the genius himself, Colonel
                    Beriah Sellers, never exhibited the boundless energy, the unlimited audacity, or the fabulous
                    optimism of James Duane Doty. Had Doty never been born the history of the 
                        United States
                     would not have been materially affected; but this emphatically cannot be said of that
                    group of men that he typified. The history of the West is to a large degree the record of their
                    ceaseless pursuit of self-interest through land speculations; town-jobbing; and canal, river, and
                    railroad promotions. This Miss Smith admirably demonstrates in her well-written and historically
                    well-crafted case study of a man who became territorial judge, delegate, and governor, Indian
                    superintendent, agent for the powerful Astor interests, 
                        United States
                     congressman, and friend and confident of party leaders and cabinet ministers, all
                    largely to advance his promotions.
            Doty was not content to buy up farmlands and wait for a rise in their value; this was too slow for
                    one consumed by the feverish desire for a grand coup that would glitteringly produce a fortune
                    overnight. His specialty was speculation in town sites, his most brilliant feat the imposition on
                    the 
                        Wisconsin
                     territorial legislature of a platted wilderness for the new capital. Doty's
                    formula was to select a likely spot-based on his wide knowledge of geography acquired in his travels
                    as a circuit-riding judge and attorney, explorer, military road builder, Indian attorney, and
                    tireless roamer-then "organize a group of investors into a company, purchase the land, lay
                    out a village, sell a few lots and bring in a few settlers, and then turn his energies to working
                    out land or water connections with the outside world" (p. 176).
            
            The active implementation of this formula for riches and success led him, as a boy of nineteen in
                    1818, to 
                        Detroit
                     and a lifetime of frenetic speculation and political activity in 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                     territories. After a career of fabulous vicissitudes, the new Republican party revived
                    his failing fortunes when an appointment as Indian superintendent sent him to the Utah Territory in
                    1860. Here in 1865, now territorial governor, Doty died, still in harness and with one eye cocked on
                    the promise of far western railroad schemes to lead him at last to the promised wealth that had
                    forever eluded him.
            Through the baffling complexities of Doty's tortuous schemes Miss Smith conducts us with a
                    sure hand. Her triumph over the paucity of evidence and her evident ability to ferret out of many a
                    hidden corner the records which did exist represent historical research in its best tradition. Her
                    finished picture is well done, and if it is only at infrequent intervals that Doty the man emerges
                    from the enigma automatically pursuing its endless convolutions, this is no criticism of the author
                    but rather a comment on the difficulty of drawing full-length portraits without the mass of personal
                    papers needed to put flesh on otherwise bare bones.
            The general reader might at times wish he had been spared some of the minutia of Doty's
                    schemes, but to the special student such a close analysis of a promoter's technique is
                    fascinating. Especially interesting is the light thrown upon the frontier agents for powerful
                    eastern capitalists and speculators, who often gave their representatives carte blanche to use their
                    money for them to best advantage, and who represented for the agents—as the Astors did
                    for Doty—powerful friends and sources of influence and support.
            Anyone who is interested in the history of the West, especially that much neglected area of American
                    history, the territorial experience, will find Miss Smith's scholarly book a valuable
                    study.
            The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                     must also be complimented for producing a handsomely bound and clearly printed volume
                    with a usable index. The illustrations are well chosen and beautifully reproduced. One small
                    criticism is the lack of one or two maps which would have facilitated the following of 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                     territorial developments.
            
               Indiana University William M. Neil
         
         
         
            
               James Burrill Angell: An American Influence. By Shirley W. Smith. (
                        Ann Arbor
                    : University of Michigan Press, 1954, pp. xvi, 380. Illustrations and index.
                    $7.50)
            James Burrill Angell was the president of the University of 
                        Michigan
                     from 1871 to 1909. During that period he not only led this great state university in
                    its remarkable growth and achievements, but also played a leading role in furthering the cause of
                    education as a whole in the state of 
                        Michigan
                     and participated in important diplomatic missions for the Department of State. For
                    these reasons he can be called "an American influence."
            President Angell was evidently a person of great personal charm, for the 
                        Michigan
                     alumni who had come into contact with him as students greatly venerated him, and
                    Shirley Wheeler Smith, his biographer—an alumnus who served as teacher of English,
                    secretary and chief financial officer, and general secretary of the Alumni Association during his
                    incumbency—has helped preserve this veneration.
            Unlike most presidents of large universities today, President Angell was not solely an administrator.
                    He gave instruction in international law and the history of American treaties, personally
                    interviewed all the students who entered the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
                    maintained cordial relations with the faculty, and addressed the students and alumni on many
                    occasions. It is not surprising that his biographer, who recalls with pride the welcome which he
                    received from the president at his matriculation, should find it difficult to see mistakes in the
                    man.
            A personal friend of John W. Foster, John Hay-one of his former students at Brown University-and
                    other import-ant political figures of his day, President Angell devoted much time and thought to
                    political, particularly diplomatic, matters. He served as minister and chairman of a commission of
                    three in 
                        China
                     from 1880 to 1881; on the fishery commission comprising British, Canadian, and American
                    members which met in 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , in the winter of 1887-1888; as chairman of the deep waterways commission which met
                    with the Canadian commission in 1896; and as minister to Turkey from August, 1897, to August, 1898.
                    Although his missions produced no remarkable results, they displayed his wisdom and tact in dealing
                    with difficult problems and personalities and increased his reputation both at home and abroad.
            
            Although Smith brings a great amount of detail into his biography, beginning with a discussion of
                    President Angell's ancestors and concluding with a summary of his personal contacts with
                    students, he holds the reader's interest throughout. More attention might have been devoted
                    to the growth of the university during its thirty-eight years under President Angell. The book
                    contains a good index and a number of interesting illustrations.
            
               Indiana University Harold J. Grimm
         
         
            
               The Reputation of the American Business Man. By Sigmund Diamond.
                            (
                  Cambridge, Massachusetts
               : Harvard University Press, 1955, pp. 209. Notes on
                    sources and index. $4.00.)
            This volume, based on a 
                        Harvard
                     doctoral thesis, is a study of obituaries and opinions expressed in various journals at
                    the time of the death of six of America's most important business men: Stephen Gerard, John
                    Jacob Astor, Cornelius Vanderbilt, John Pierpont Morgan, John D. Rockefeller, and Henry Ford. The
                    research obviously involved much persistent and tedious work; the author, for example, examined 194
                    newspapers on Astor and found material in 164; of the magazines he examined 296 on Ford, but found
                    material in only 28. On the last three tycoons named above, the author also had the use of trade
                    union publications and, house organs. The general method used by the author was to begin with the
                    majority opinion as illustrated by the publications of the Northeast, where all but Ford operated,
                    and then the dissenting opinions, followed by the reactions of those of the West and South.
            On none of these men was there a unanimity of opinion, although with the development of the
                    commercial press and associated news gathering agencies the reactions and interpretations revealed a
                    certain sameness. Perhaps the most significant contribution of the author is his effort to explain
                    the opinions of the press in relation to the spirit of the times, and the efforts of the upholders
                    of these business men to interpret their life and deeds as representing the true American way. As
                    might be expected the major portion of the book is given over to quotations; these alone tell the
                    story, but the author injects enough interpretation to clarify the picture.
            
            With the exception of Morgan all of these men rose from humble circumstances, and this was emphasized
                    in most obituaries with the lesson that this was uniquely possible in America. Perhaps Gerard, the 
                        Philadelphia
                     banker, who gave only 2 per cent of his fortune ($7,500,000), the largest in
                    America at the time, to his relatives and friends, and the rest to charities, the improvement of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , internal improvements in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and the founding of Gerard College, received the most unanimous approval. The chief
                    criticism came from those who resented his elimination of the clergy from participation in the
                    college and his lack of concern over Negro slavery. While the comments on Astor's life
                    showed great admiration for his economic success, there was some condemnation of his business
                    methods, "skepticism as to the value of money-making, scorn for his manner of living,
                    concern with the problem of the proper uses of money" (pp. 24-25). It was noted by some
                    writers that his wealth came in part from the unearned increment on 
                        New York
                     real estate, and a belief that the donation of $500,000 for a public library
                    out of an estate of $20,000,000 was not enough. There was, in brief, a growing interest
                    in the getting and spending of money.
            With the death of Vanderbilt came the new image of the "robber baron," a concern
                    over non-business activities, a modification of the praise heaped on the acquisition of wealth, and
                    an emphasis on the relation of man to the system, not discussed before. But this challenge to the
                    established order brought a quick defense. By the time the imperious Morgan passed away the nation
                    had been aroused by the development of monopoly, the money trust, and the election of the
                    progressive Wilson. A new psychology had appeared and many contemporaries believed a "new
                    era" had come. There was less talk about Morgan's wealth and more on how he had
                    used it, and it was often critical. The newspapers, now more than ever tied closely with big
                    business, tried to meet the criticism by identifying Morgan and his use of money with the greatness
                    of the nation. The implication was that if you were against Morgan you were against the nation.
            When John D. Rockefeller died in 1937 at the age of 97, the pattern of thought regarding his life had
                    been well formulated, and to no small extent by the work of the suave Ivy Lee. With amazing
                    conformity both the United Press and the Associated Press passed over the questionable practices of
                    his  early years to picture him as the kindly old gentleman who
                    had made a fortune in his early years through industry, frugality, personal morality, and high
                    ability, only to give most of it away in his later years. His was the "‘greatest
                    Horatio Alger story of all time’" (p. 127), and his success closely identified
                    with the nation's progress. True, not all had forgotten the criticisms of his early years,
                    but they were largely submerged in the general approval expressed after his death.
            When Henry Ford died, his weaknesses and abilities were well known, but few made the differentiation
                    as clearly as Max Lerner. His accomplishments were "‘mass-production,
                    standardization, high-speed belt-line, high wages, large volume,’ "but his mind
                    was a" ‘jungle of fear and ignorance and prejudice in social
                    affairs’" (p. 160). But most newspapers followed the usual line "of the
                    dead nothing but good" and pictured him as the symbol of all that was right in industrial
                    capitalism.
            In summarizing his conclusions, Diamond suggests that in the early nineteenth century the
                    entrepreneur was described as a man with certain personal qualities who performed certain business
                    acts, and that non-business acts were private and not relevant to the discussion. Personal qualities
                    and character were stressed and the destination of his fortune rather than the methods of acquiring
                    it. In the twentieth century, the non-business roles of the enterpreneur are emphasized and the
                    economic environment which made success possible, an environment synonymous with the nation itself.
                    This differentiation by periods does not seem so clear to the reviewer as to the author. All types
                    of opinion seem to appear in both periods and for all six men. The book throws light on such
                    problems as the making of public opinion, propaganda, and interpretative reporting as well as the
                    contemporaneous evaluation of some of the most important business men.
            
               Smith College Harold U. Faulkner
         
         
            Guide to the Manuscripts of the Kentucky Historical Society. Compiled by G. Glenn Clift.
                            (
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               : Kentucky Historical Society, 1955, pp. vii, 185. Index.)
            The Kentucky Historical Society was organized in 1836 and some of its members began collecting
                    manuscripts at an early date, but the present collection represents only gifts, deposits, and
                    purchases since the late 1880's. Much of the  material
                    gathered earlier found its way into other collections. It is not an extensive collection and is
                    characterized by very small groups containing five or less items.
            There are 1,149 entries which have been classified under nine headings-Autograph Original Papers,
                    Account Books, Church Records, Confederate Pension Records, Diaries and Journals, Hotel Registers,
                    Local (County) Records, Military Records, Tax Books, and Vital Statistics. A brief description of
                    the papers, the names of individuals to whom letters were written, and a statement on the size of
                    the collection has been given. It is unfortunate that the birth and death dates were not given after
                    each name. If it was not possible to supply this information, a date when the individual was active
                    would have enhanced the use of the Guide.
            A description of the 
                        Kentucky
                     governors' executive office records, consisting of 1200 boxes and 550 bound
                    volumes, was omitted. This collection was described in Catalogue Records, Documents,
                        Etc., 
                            Kentucky
                         Governors 1792-1926, compiled by Emma Guy Cromwell. Other state documents
                    temporarily stored elsewhere were also omitted. To the above omissions may be added extensive
                    holdings in genealogical manuscript materials.
            The fact that the index of thirty-one pages includes the people to whom and from whom letters were
                    written and other pertinent information in the manuscript collection should prove of great value.
            Through the publication of the Guide, the Kentucky Historical Society has made more
                    easily accessible its manuscript holdings.
            
               Indiana University Elfrieda Lang
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
