
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 58, Issue 1, pages 1-78. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:58+issue:1+year:1962&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Herman Sturm: Hoosier Secret Agent for Mexico
            
                    Robert Ryal Miller
                    ∗
                
            The heroic struggle between the armies of Maximilian and Juárez in 
                        Mexico
                     coincided with the American Civil War, and a number of Americans played interesting
                    roles in both military theaters. Two Indiana generals, Lew Wallace and Herman Sturm, were especially
                    active on both sides of the Rio Grande in the 1860's, serving first as members of the Union
                    forces then as secret agents for the Republic of Mexico. General Wallace's assignment with
                    the Juarist republican forces is well known; he gave the basic facts in his autobiography, published
                    posthumously in 1906.1 Herman Sturm, on the other hand, apparently had no
                    biographical sketch published in either English or Spanish, nor has his service to the Republic of
                    Mexico been adequately described. The only published evidence tracing his career as a Mexican secret
                    agent appears to be two legal briefs he had printed in an attempt to collect compensation from the
                    Mexican government.2 That Sturm's contribution was significant can be seen from the fact
                    that between 1865 and 1867 he purchased over 
                  
                     ∗ Robert Ryal Miller is assistant professor of history at 
                                New Mexico
                             State University, University Park, 
                                New Mexico
                            .
                  
                     1 Lewis Wallace, Lew Wallace: An Autobiography (2
                            vols. 
                                New York
                            , 1906). See also Chapter VIII of the excellent biography by Irving McKee, "Ben-Hur" Wallace: The Life of General Lew Wallace
                            (Berkeley, Calif., 1947). Full details in legal brief, Lew Wallace to American-Mexican
                            Claims Commission, November 25, 1869, retained draft, Lew Wallace Collection (William H.
                            Smith Library of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind.).
                  
                     2 Herman Sturm, The Republic of Mexico and Its American
                                Creditors (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1869); and Herman Sturm, American and Mexican Commission:
                                Herman Sturm Versus the Republic of Mexico (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1872). The manuscript original of the latter is in U.S., Department of
                            State Records, 
                                United States
                            -Mexican Claims Commission of 1868, Record Group 76 (U.S. National Archives),
                            Docket 676.
               
                     $2,000,000 worth of military supplies in the 
                        United States
                     and forwarded them to the Juárez government in 
                        Mexico
                    .3
            
            The extraordinary circumstances prompting the Mexican republic to employ American generals in its
                    behalf was a result of the invasion of Mexico by European troops in 1861. Under pretext of
                    collecting defaulted debts, several thousand French soldiers occupied 
                        Mexico City
                     and the state capitals of that country, forcing President Juárez and his
                    cabinet to set up a fugitive government in the northern desert. The troops of Napoleon III were also
                    responsible for establishing an empire in 
                        Mexico
                     and elevating the Austrian archduke, Maximilian von Hapsburg, to the Cactus Throne.
                    Thus, simultaneously there were two warring governments in 
                        Mexico
                    , the imperial and the republican, each with its own chief executive, bureaucracy, laws,
                    and army. The war, called the French Intervention, lasted six years, ending with the collapse of the
                    empire and the execution of Maximilian. The triumph of republican forces under Juárez is
                    partially explained by the large-scale shipment of guns and ammunition forwarded from the 
                        United States
                     by Herman Sturm and other agents in the pay of the Mexican republic.4
            
            But who was this man Sturm—and how did he get involved in 
                        Mexico
                    's troubles? Born in 
                  Hanover,
                            Germany
               , in 1830, Herman W. Sturm immigrated to the 
                        United States
                     some time before 1860.5 When the Civil War broke out he was living
                    in Indiana, and because he had learned the munitions business abroad, Governor Oliver P. Morton
                    commissioned him to set up an arms factory in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . According to a history of that city, "quarters were rented on the square just
                    south of the State House…. Captain Sturm selected men whom he instructed in the various
                    processes of molding, swedging and perfecting bullets and cartridges, 
                  
                     3 Estimate compiled from figures in a Mexican government publication,
                                Contratos hecnos en los Estados-Unidos por los comisionados del gobierno de
                                Mexico durante los años de 1865 y 1866 (Mexico, 1868),
                            500–501, 504–506.
                  
                     4 Other agents named in 
                                Mexico
                            , Responsabilidades contraídas por el gobierno national
                                de México con los Estados-Unidos, en virtud de los contratos celebrados por
                                sus agentes, 1864–1867 (Mexico, 1867), hereafter cited as Responsabilidades; see also the author's article, "Gaspar
                            Sánchez Ochoa: A Mexican Secret Agent in the 
                                United States
                            ," Historian, XXIII (May, 1961), 316–329.
                  
                     5 Genealogical information obtained in letters from a niece of Herman
                            Sturm, Miss Helen Loeper, to the author, April 6, 1959, and June 10, 1959.
               
                     of filling shells and fashioning fuses."6 By the end of the war Sturm was a general and chief of ordnance for the state of Indiana.7
            
            As a manufacturer, procurer, and expediter of military supplies, Sturm had notable success. At the
                    same time he made valuable contacts with American munitions firms such as Remington and DuPont, as
                    well as with several 
                        New York
                     financial houses. According to General Wallace, Sturm's value to the Mexican
                    cause was enhanced by the fact that he was "possessed of money in his own right, and that
                    he could command more from members of his family and friends."8
            
            Sturm got involved with the war in 
                        Mexico
                     through his friend Lew Wallace, who suggested to representatives of the Mexican
                    republican government that they should engage Sturm as an ordnance expediter. Wallace testified that
                    Sturm was "an honorable man, and expert in arms and munitions of war, full of experience in
                    their purchase, and especially favored with a general acquaintance with the business men of 
                        New York
                    …. "9 Wallace then introduced Sturm to General
                    José Maria Carvajal, who had come to the 
                        United States
                     seeking arms, men, and supplies for Mexico. Carvajal explained his mission to Sturm and
                    tried to enlist him as a confidential purchasing agent. He related that the Juáirez
                    government wanted an American auxiliary force of ten thousand armed men who would be willing to
                    emigrate to Mexico as soldier-colonists. The men were to assemble somewhere on the Rio Grande and be
                    under the command of General Wallace. Sturm was offered a commission to provide all the munitions
                    and supplies for this army as well as for Mexican troops that would be added to the force. General
                    Carvajal was optimistic; he thought that within three months the ten thousand Americans and the
                    required munitions could be on Mexican soil.10
            
            
               
                  6 Jeanette Covert Nolan, 
                     
                                Hoosier City
                            : The Story of 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                   (
                            New York
                        , 1943), 139.
               
                  7 McKee, "Ben-Hur" Wallace, 96, says
                        he was a colonel, but Sturm's account, The Republic of Mexico and Its
                            American Creditors, 3–4, reprints a contract signed by him as brigadier
                        general and chief of ordnance. Wallace, Autobiography, II, 863, states that in
                        1865 Sturm was a brigadier general and chief of ordnance for Indiana.
               
                  8 Wallace, Autobiography, II, 863.
               
                        9
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  10 Sturm, The Republic of Mexico and Its American
                        Creditors, 2.
            
            
            No doubt it was the lure of potential profits that induced Herman Sturm to become an agent for
                    Mexico. Wallace, too, was hoping to get telegraph and railroad concessions in 
                        Mexico
                     as well as cash compensation for his assistance to the beleaguered republic.11 But the writings of both men also indicate that they were convinced of the
                    righteousness of the Juarista cause.
            General Sturm signed a contract with Carvajal on May 1, 1865, accepting a commission as
                    "Agent of the Mexican Republic, for the purchase and shipment of all material necessary for
                    the prosecution of the war against the French; also as Secret Agent to raise and transport emigrants
                    from the 
                        United States
                     to Mexico."12 For his services Sturm was to receive from
                    $10,000 to $20,000 as well as a brigadier general's commission in the
                    Mexican army on the termination of the Civil War in the 
                        United States
                    . He was authorized to hire officers to assist him and to promise them, if they
                    emigrated to Mexico, positions and salaries equivalent to those last held by them in the 
                        United States
                    . General Carvajal pledged himself to place at Sturm's disposal all the funds
                    necessary for the fulfillment of contracts for arms and emigrants. He also promised Sturm a secret
                    service fund "to be used at his discretion, to gain sympathy, opinion and action in behalf
                    of the Republic of Mexico in the 
                        United States
                    ."13
            
            The two generals also signed another contract; this document was a power of authority and
                    identification which Sturm could use in his negotiations. The credential was back dated March 1,
                    1865, and the place of execution given as Soto la Marina, Mexico. The object of this ruse was to
                    avoid any difficulty or embarrassment should such a document signed in the 
                        United States
                     fall into hands of an enemy of the Mexican republic. The power of authority was signed
                    by Matías Romero, Mexican minister to the 
                        United States
                    , who certified that Carvajal was authorized by the Juárez government to make
                    contracts for the purchase of arms. He added the note that "any contract or purchase that
                    he will make in pursuance of and in accordance to said instructions will bind the National 
                  
                     11 See draft propositions, Lew Wallace to President Benito
                            Juárez, October 22, 1866, Lew Wallace Collection.
                  
                     12 Sturm, The Republic of Mexico and Its American
                                Creditors, 3–4.
                  
                            13
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     Government of Mexico and the public faith of the
                        country."14
            
            General Sturm immediately began to carry out the obligations of his new position. Visiting arms
                    manufacturers in 
                  Cincinnati, Cleveland, Louisville, Indianapolis, New York,
                            Boston, Pittsburgh, St. Louis
               , and other
                    military equipment centers, he contracted for war stores. He also hired some agents in various parts
                    of the country and made arrangements for transporting emigrants to Mexico via the
                        Mississippi River and 
                        Texas
                    . For the expedition to Mexico he enlisted some former 
                        United States
                     Army officers who had been mustered out before the close of the Civil War.15
            
            In early August of 1865 Sturm and Carvajal met in 
                        New York
                     to discuss the financing of the arms and emigrant contracts. The Mexican general had
                    already contracted with the 
                        United States
                    , European, and 
                        West Virginia
                     Land and Mining Company to negotiate a loan of $30,000,000 predicated on
                    bonds of the Mexican republic. Carvajal gave Sturm two drafts on the company, one for
                    $20,000 in Mexican bonds to defray certain printing and advertising costs, and another
                    draft for $1,500,000 in 
                        United States
                     currency as reimbursement for money advanced and obligations due. At the same time
                    Sturm was assured that within a few days he would be given another sum of money enabling him to
                    settle all the contracts he had signed.16 But it soon developed that the land
                    and mining concern was a bubble corporation which Sturm characterized as "an unmitigated
                    swindle—its resources fictitious—its pretenses a fraud."17 The company secretary refused to honor the drafts, forcing Sturm to pacify
                    his creditors, placate the emigrants, and cancel the contracts for war stores.
            About this time the resources of the Mexican republican government had reached their nadir. General
                    Carvajal summed up the situation in a letter to Sturm saying, "Our enemy is the most
                    powerful in the world, and actually holds our cities and the ports from which we chiefly derive our
                    revenue; and the head of our Government, with his Cabinet, 
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 5–7.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 8; McKee, "Ben-Hur" Wallace,
                            96.
                  
                     16 Sturm, The Republic of Mexico and Its American
                                Creditors, 9.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid. For an account of the Woodhouse swindle see Robert Frazer,
                            "The 
                                United States
                            , European, and 
                                West Virginia
                             Land and Mining Company," Pacific Historical Review, XIII (March,
                            1944), 28–40.
               
                     is in the corner of the most distant state of the Republic,
                    without money, or credit, or army…. "18 The official Mexican
                    missions in the 
                        United States
                     also suffered from a lack of cash or credit; the Mexican legation in 
                        Washington
                     was so pressed for funds that it could barely meet its necessary expenses.19 Furthermore, Carvajal had signed up a number of former Union officers whose
                    hotel bills and other expenses had mounted to a large debt, and because of the failure of the bond
                    issue he could not meet this obligation. To avoid disgrace and failure of future plans it was
                    absolutely necessary that facts about Mexico's bankrupt condition be kept from the public;
                    thus the land and mining company's swindle was not prosecuted.
            Like so many failing causes this one needed an injection of cash to forestall complete collapse. So
                    Sturm, to salvage his investment of time and money, advanced Carvajal about $4,600, which
                    was used to mollify the contract cancellations. As a reward and as an additional incentive,
                    Carvajal, on behalf of the Mexican government, gave a land grant to Herman Sturm and his brothers,
                    Robert and Frederick, who had worked with him. The grant, dated September 21, 1865, was for fifty
                    acres of mining land and one square league (4,439 acres) of agricultural land in the states of
                    Tamaulipas or San Luis Potosí.20
            
            The rescue operation from the bond fiasco was more difficult, but through Sturm's
                    familiarity with 
                        New York
                     financial houses a reputable firm, Corlies and Company, was engaged to take over the
                    bond issue. One of Sturm's acquaintances, Jonathan N. Tifft, a partner of Corlies, was
                    appointed financial agent of the Mexican government.21 But sales lagged; in the
                    year and a half before the bond issue was terminated only $9,000 worth of bonds were sold
                    for cash.22 The credit of the Mexican republic was at an all-time 
                  
                     18 Carvajal to Sturm, July 15, 1865, in Sturm, The
                                Republic of Mexico and Its American Creditors, 14.
                  
                     19 See Carvajal to Romero, July 15, 1865, and Consul Juan Navarro to
                            Romero, April 2, 1866, Matías Romero Correspondence (Bancroft Library, University
                            of 
                                California
                            , Berkeley).
                  
                     20 Sturm, American and Mexican Commission, vi-vii;
                            Sturm, The Republic of Mexico and Its American Creditors, 19.
                  
                     21 McKee, "Ben-Hur" Wallace,
                            98–99.
                  
                     22 Résumé of bond sales in 
                                Mexico
                            , Circulares y otras publicaciones hechas por la
                                legación Mexicana en Washington durante la guerra de Intervention,
                            1862-1867 (2 vols., Mexico, 1868), I, 463–464, hereafter cited as Circulares.
                  
               
                     low, and its future was uncertain. General Sturm reported that a
                    Mexican officer in exile in 
                        New York
                     and destitute for food and shelter "was refused even a loaf of bread for
                    $1,000 in Mexican bonds."23
            
            In conjunction with the bond issue Herman Sturm directed a propaganda campaign to build favorable
                    American public opinion about the Juárez government and its prospects for success.
                    Carvajal, in a letter of secret instructions, told Sturm that "the sympathy, voice and
                    influence of the most prominent men in the country must be gained; the Press must be on our side;
                    above all we must enlist in the cause the most active and untiring agents, and if they
                        should at the same time be agents of the 
                            United States
                         Government, so much the better."
               24 Then Carvajal
                    pledged $500,000 in 
                        United States
                     currency or its equivalent in Mexican bonds to be used by Sturm as a secret service
                    fund. Furthermore, Sturm was not to be held responsible for divulging the names of those who aided
                    Mexico and received money from the fund.25
            
            As an assistant in the propaganda war Sturm engaged the services of his old friend, Hoosier
                    politician and social reformer, Robert Dale Owen. Both men had previously been commissioned by the
                    Indiana governor to procure military supplies for the state troops; now they would work together to
                    publicize the predicament and potential of the Mexican republic.26
                    Owen's specific task was related to the projected bond issue—confidence in
                    Juárez and the success of his campaign had to be fortified to insure successful marketing
                    of the securities. From material and dispatches supplied by the Mexican legation he wrote newspaper
                    articles that glorified Juárist victories, republican institutions, the 
                        Monroe
                     Doctrine, and the resources of Mexico. At the same time the Maximilian regime was
                    excoriated because of its monarchical nature and because it was imposed and supported by foreign
                        bayonets.27
            
            Other phases of Owen's activities on behalf of Mexico included public speaking and private
                    influence peddling. Along 
                  
                     23 Sturm, American and Mexican Commission, 228.
                  
                     24 Sturm, The Republic of Mexico and Its American
                                Creditors, 14.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., 15–16.
                  
                     26 Owen's work as ordnance commissioner is detailed in
                            Richard William Leopold, Robert Dale Owen: A Biography (
                                    Harvard
                                 Historical Studies, Vol. XLV; 
                                Cambridge
                            , 
                                Mass.
                            , 1940), 346–348, 373.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 374–375.
               
                     with Sturm, Wallace, and Romero he attended the gala 
                        New York
                     opening of the Mexican Financial Agency on November 2, 1865, and Owen's
                    biographer notes that "surrounded by swarthy diplomats and comic opera generals, he spoke
                    briefly on the danger inherent in an empire to the south."28 Owen also
                    had at least three interviews with President Johnson trying to get some official American support
                    for the Mexican loan, or at least a statement that Maximilian would never be recognized by the 
                        United States
                    . When bond sales lagged, he tried, unsuccessfully, to interest the 
                        Philadelphia
                     banker, Jay Cooke, in the loan. In an attempt to have the 
                        United States
                     government guarantee the bond issue, Owen drafted a proposed bill, lobbied in 
                        Washington
                    , and testified before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs.29
            
            In 1866 Owen wrote six pamphlets in support of the Juárez government which were published
                    anonymously, the printing cost borne by General Sturm.30 Of course these
                    panegyric publications presented a biased view of events in 
                        Mexico
                    , but that was their function. Although the public sale of Mexican bonds was a failure,
                    the propaganda effort was effective in gaining sympathy for the Juárez cause. Americans
                    wanted to see the republican government restored to full power in 
                        Mexico
                    , but at the same time they hesitated to invest in securities of that country. As bond
                    sales declined and the war in 
                        Mexico
                     drew to a close, Robert Dale Owen severed his connection with the Mexican enterprise.
            Meanwhile, General Sturm found the answer to Mexico's financial troubles. His expedient was
                    to trade bonds for war goods, and he persuaded a number of American arms companies to take the bonds
                    as payment for purchases of ships, guns, powder, grenades, uniforms, medical supplies, and other
                    military stores. Of course the bonds were discounted and negotiated at 60 per cent of their face
                    value, but the important thing was that Mexico's credit was at last accepted. The Mexican
                    minister, who was nonplused but enthusiastic about this development, properly credited Sturm with
                    solving the difficult logistic and financial problems facing Mexican secret agents in the 
                        United States
                    .31 In commenting on 
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., 374.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid.; Sturm, American and Mexican Commission, xii.
                  
                     30 Pamphlet titles listed in Leopold, Robert Dale
                            Owen, 375, n. 32.
                  
                     31
                            Responsabilidades, 13.
               
                     Sturm's triumph General Wallace noted, "Here
                    his experience, skill, knowledge of dealers and prices, his tirelessness and loyalty were
                        successful."32 One should not overlook the fact that American
                    munition makers had a large inventory on their hands at this time, only a few months after the close
                    of the Civil War, and undoubtedly they were glad to unload their surplus even if payment was in
                    Mexican bonds.
            Sturm dispatched his first large shipment of munitions to Matamoros, Mexico, on July 16, 1866, aboard
                    the steamer J. W. Everman. The well-publicized embarkation served to refute the
                    claim that the Mexican republic had ceased to exist. A small steamer loaded with well-wishers,
                    newspaper reporters, and a brass band accompanied the ship out to sea, and Sturm noted that he
                    provided "collation" to cheer the voyagers on their way.33 The
                    cargo of military hardware included 5,020 Enfield rifles, 1,000 pistols, 618,000 cartridges,
                    1,100,000 percussion caps, 5,000 pounds of gunpowder, 1,000 cavalry swords, 6 artillery pieces with
                    20,400 rounds of ammunition, 3,000 mess kits, 13,801 knapsacks, 1,308 pairs of underdrawers, 813
                    frying pans, and a large quantity of medical and surgical equipment including surgical and dental
                    instruments, assorted medicines, and 6 hospital tents.34
            
            Aboard the J. W. Everman were a number of Americans as well as some Mexican army
                    personnel. Among the former were General Lew Wallace; Captain Frederick C. Sturm, Herman
                    Sturm's brother; and Dr. F. W. Loeper, related to the Sturms by marriage.35 Another physician, Dr. Walter J. Hadden, brought along a full set of surgical instruments
                    and medicines which he valued at $2,290.36 Colonel George Earl
                    Church, who had fought with the 
                        Rhode Island
                     volunteers during the Civil War,37 went along as a representative
                    of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Herald, and Wilbur F. Stocking accompanied the expedition as an agent of Corlies
                    and Company, the bond firm. William C. Peckham, acting as secretary and bookkeeper 
                  
                     32 Wallace, Autobiography, II, 864.
                  
                     33 Sturm, American and Mexican Commission, xiv.
                  
                     34 Complete manifest printed in Circulates, I,
                            475-476.
                  
                     35
                            Dewhurst & Emerson v. Mexico, U.S., Department of State Records,
                            Record Group 76, Docket 673. Dr. Loeper was Sturm's sister's
                            father-in-law, see footnote 5.
                  
                     36
                            Walter J. Hadden v. Mexico, U.S., Department of State Records, Record
                            Group 76, Docket 763.
                  
                     37 George Earl Church, Aborigines of South America,
                            ed. Clements R. Markham (
                                London
                            , 1912), xii.
               
                     keeper for General Carvajal, also sailed with the group to
                        Mexico.38
            
            The supplies on the Everman were consigned to General Carvajal, who left Washington
                    in May, 1866, headed for the 
                        Texas
                    -Tamaulipas border. There he got together an army and by midyear had regained control of
                    the port of Matamoros. Notifying Generals Sturm and Wallace that he was preparing to launch an
                    offensive campaign from that city, he requested that men and supplies be forwarded immediately. But
                    Carvajal's rule of Matamoros was short-lived; a local revolt forced him into exile on the
                    very day that the cargo and men of the Everman arrived in Matamoros. Wallace and
                    the Americans were briefly jailed, and it was some time before the war stores could be salvaged and
                        warehoused.39 In the meantime, looting had reduced the cargo considerably.
                    Wallace and Stocking eventually disposed of most of the rescued war stores by arranging sales with
                    representatives of individual Mexican field commanders.40
            
            Another fiasco involved the gunboat Sheridan which Sturm purchased for
                    $231,333 in bonds and sent to Mexico in the summer of 1866. The cannon and munitions for
                    the gunboat were embarked on another vessel because, according to Sturm, "it would have
                    been impolitic and almost impossible in that time to send this boat from here with its
                        armament."41 The ship carrying the Sheridan's guns later foundered in a storm and sank in the Atlantic Ocean; thus the
                    Mexicans acquired an impotent gunboat. More than a year later the Sheridan was
                    armed and sent to blockade the port of 
                        Vera Cruz
                    , but bad luck prevailed again and the gunboat sank off the coast of Tamaulipas.42
            
            The revolt in Matamoros and the difficulties with the gunboat delayed Sturm's activities for
                    some months, but eventually he was again able to negotiate Mexican bonds for war stores. Following
                    Carvajal's defeat and exile to 
                        Texas
                     the Mexican government advised Sturm that he should no longer take orders from that
                    general; henceforth he was to work directly under Minister Romero, who would have to 
                  
                     38 McKee, "Ben-Hur" Wallace, 104;
                                Dewhurst & Emerson v. Mexico, U.S., Department of State
                            Records, Record Group 76, Docket 673.
                  
                     39 Wallace, Autobiography, II, 875–876.
                  
                     40
                            Circulates, I, 475–476.
                  
                     41 Sturm, American and Mexican Commission, 324.
                  
                     42 Ibid., 210.
               
                     approve any future contracts. Romero gave Sturm some new
                    instructions regarding the type of goods to buy, the wording of contracts, and the use of bonds. One
                    of the provisions stated that nothing was to be purchased that could not be transported to Mexico.
                    This clause was no doubt inserted because another secret agent had purchased a rifle factory, brick
                    building and all, and the Mexican government was embarrassed over this act.43
                    Sturm was ordered not to buy any more ships and advised not to send any food supplies since the
                    basis for feeding Mexican soldiers was Indian corn, which was plentiful in 
                        Mexico
                    . Another section of the instructions warned against purchasing "articles which
                    may be considered necessary for the 
                        United States
                     army, which would be as articles of luxury for our army—such as camp tents,
                    shoes, stockings, coffee, etc."44
            
            Under the terms of his new instructions, on November 11, 1866, Sturm sent the ship Vixen with a cargo of war goods to Minatitlán, 
                        Vera Cruz
                    . General Sturm's oldest brother, Robert C. Sturm, went along as supercargo,
                    and another brother, Captain Frederick C. Sturm, went with this ship to aid Mexico in the artillery
                        service.45 Two Mexican commissioners, General Pedro de Baranda and
                    Señor Justo Benítez, also accompanied this shipment of arms consigned to the
                    Army of the East under General Porfirio Díaz. The cargo included 5,100 rifles, 50
                    Remington pistols, 117,056 rounds of ammunition, 334,500 percussion caps, 616 cavalry swords, 2
                    telescopes, 12 copies of 
                        Hammond
                    's hygiene book, and a large amount of medical and surgical equipment.48
            
            Later in the same month Sturm loaded another ship, the Suwanee, with military
                    supplies bound for Mexico. This vessel put to sea on November 27, 1866, with a Mexican officer,
                    Governor Juan José Baz, of Michoacán, in charge of the cargo. The unfortunate
                    end of the Suwanee expedition came on December 4 when the ship foundered in a
                    storm and sank off the Carolina coast, the passengers barely escaping with their lives. The cargo
                    had not been insured because Sturm had received no instructions to do so, and as he later stated,
                    the regulations of the 
                        United States
                     Army which had been 
                  
                     43 Romero's instructions, Sturm, The Republic of
                                Mexico and Its American Creditors, 39–41. Data on other agent, Enrique
                            Antonio Mejia Papers (Bancroft Library, University of 
                                California
                            , Berkeley), Folio 204, Part II, Box 1.
                  
                     44 Sturm, The Republic of Mexico and Its American
                                Creditors, 41. 
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., 60.
                  
                     46
                            Circulares, I, 477.
               
                     given him as a guide prohibited military officers from insuring
                    government property.47 Lost in the shipwreck were 20 army wagons, 2 rifled
                    cannon for the gunboat Sheridan, 1 ten-pound cannon, 5,000 Enfield rifles, 2,900
                    repeating carbines, 1,500,000 percussion caps, 1,200 wad hooks and rifle swabs, 13,750 pounds of
                    powder, 458 grenades, 1,340 boxes of grapeshot, 700 cavalry swords and scabbards, 75 pairs of spurs,
                    2 telescopes, 6,409 knapsacks, and other items of assorted field and medical equipment.48
            
            As far as the republic of Mexico was concerned, this disaster was more important from the standpoint
                    of logistics than from the financial standpoint. The Juarist armies had a critical shortage of guns
                    and ammunition at this turning point in the war, and the lack of munitions became more pronounced as
                    they began to assault and lay seige to the cities of 
                        Vera Cruz
                    , 
                        Queretaro
                    , and 
                        Mexico City
                    .48
            
            To meet this increased demand for munitions, especially artillery powder and shells, General Sturm
                    fitted out additional ships with military supplies and sent them to Mexico. The General
                        McCallum sailed for Tampico on March 3, 1867, carrying arms to General Pavón,
                    military commandant in that area. The bulk of the cargo was made up of a private shipment of arms,
                    the property of General Sturm. The items for sale in 
                        Mexico
                     included 5,000 rifles, 1,100 boxes of carbines and assorted rifles, 1,000 revolvers,
                    730,000 cartridges, 8,000 percussion caps, 7,000 pounds of gunpowder, and other boxes of swords,
                    muskets, pistols, and ammunition. Two of Sturm's agents, Robert C. Sturm and Wilbur F.
                    Stocking, went along to manage the sale of the merchandise.50 About this time
                    Romero received official word to make no more arms contracts on behalf of the supreme government; he
                    was allowed however, to sanction negotiations with individual field commanders.51
            
            The fate of the McCallum resembled that of the ill-fated Everman
                    expedition to Matamoros. The arrival of Sturm's private cargo at 
                        Tampico
                     on April 15, 1867, coincided with a local revolt, and the military stores were seized
                    and interned 
                  
                     47 Sturm, American and Mexican Commission, 325.
                  
                     48
                            Circulares, I, 479–482.
                  
                     49 See the appeals to Romero for arms by Generals Berriozabal,
                            Pavón, Benavides, and Alatorre, December 19, 25, 1866, January 19, February 23,
                            1867, respectively, Matias Romero Correspondence.
                  
                     50
                            Circulares, I, 483; Sturm, American and Mexican
                            Commission, 183–184.
                  
                     51 Sturm, American and Mexican Commission, 123,
                        133.
               
                     in a public warehouse. Although Robert Sturm remained in 
                        Tampico
                     for some time trying to retrieve or sell the arms, he was apparently unsuccessful in
                    liberating any goods or money.52
            
            In spite of difficulties encountered, Herman Sturm made four more arms shipments to Mexico in 1867.
                    On May 18 the Veto sailed for Matamoros consigned to General
                    Berriozábal, commandant at that port. The usual assortment of carbines, ammunition,
                    swords, and quartermaster equipment made up the cargo manifest. The following August the bark Zingarella and the schooner Samuel F. Keese were sent with
                    military stores to General Porfirio Díaz. In October the Keese was
                    again dispatched to Mexico, but like the Suwanee it was lost at sea.53
            
            In addition to guns and ammunition the Zingarella transported an unusual item to
                    Mexico, a one-man torpedo boat. This unique weapon, built of iron, was about thirty feet long and
                    was powered by an oil-burning engine claimed to be virtually noiseless. The torpedo boat had a
                    cruising speed of five knots and a range of twenty-five to thirty miles. It carried a torpedo on an
                    outrigger twenty feet from the bow; in combat the boat was to run up to the target, explode the
                    torpedo on contact, and then return for a reload.54
            
            The war in 
                        Mexico
                     finally ended about the time the torpedo boat and the other supplies aboard the Zingarella arrived in the southern republic. Napoleon's recall of the
                    French troops in 1867 paved the way for the disintegration of the Mexican empire and the victory of
                    the republicans. The dramatic execution of Maximilian at Querétaro and the entry of
                    Juárez into 
                        Mexico City
                     in the summer of 1867 marked the end of the long war and eliminated the need for
                    further arms from abroad.
            In August of 1867 Herman Sturm totaled up his account books, made itemized statements of his
                    purchases and disposition of Mexican bonds, and forwarded this information to the Mexican
                    government. In an accompanying letter detailing his services on behalf of the Juaristas he stated
                    that he expected to be compensated for his two years of labor and reimbursed for his personal
                    expenditures in accordance with 
                  
                     52 Herman Sturm on a/c of steamer "General
                                McCullom" [McCallum] v. Mexico, U.S.,
                            Department of State Records, Record Group 76, Docket 762; see also Sturm, American and Mexican Commission, 183–184.
                  
                     53 Cargoes of these ships listed in Circulares, I,
                            483; loss of Keese in Sturm, American and Mexican
                            Commission, 250.
                  
                     54 The torpedo boat was puchased for $7,500, George M. Ramsay v. Mexico, U.S., Department of State Records,
                            Record Group 76, Docket 764.
               
                     the agreements signed with General Carvajal. In the letter Sturm
                    referred by name to all his agents and employees giving their dates of service; he noted that the
                    men "remained at their posts and cooperated valiantly and enthusiastically even though they
                    were very frequently embarrassed by the fact that their salaries were not paid at the stipulated
                        time."55
            
            But General Sturm was to have a prolonged ordeal with the Mexican government before he received any
                    remuneration. He made two trips to 
                        Mexico City
                     in this connection in 1867 and 1868; he managed to get $43,500 which he
                    accepted as payment on account but which the government considered as payment in full. Sturm
                    maintained that this amount represented only one-third of his personal expenditures not to mention
                    the sum promised him or the land grants which he was to receive.56 Along with
                    other creditors and holders of Mexican bonds he appealed to the 
                        United States
                    —Mexican Claims Commission which sat in 
                        Washington
                     from 1868 to 1876. But the commission turned down Sturm's claim for
                    $670,000 saying that his agreement was with General Carvajal, not the Mexican government
                    and, furthermore, that Carvajal had exceeded his powers in giving the grants and commissions to
                        Sturm.57
            
            As late as 1888 Sturm was still attempting to collect from the Díaz administration in 
                        Mexico
                     what he could not get from that of Juárez. By that time Sturm was living in 
                        Denver
                    , 
                        Colorado
                    , without sufficient funds to leave that city. An 
                        Indianapolis
                     lawyer, William Henderson, to whom Sturm was in debt, knew that the ex-general still
                    had a valuable claim against the Mexican government, so he agreed to pay Sturm's expenses
                    for a trip to Mexico hoping thereby to collect not only the old debt but 5 per cent of any new
                        settlement.58 Sturm went to 
                        Mexico City
                     in 1888 and 1889, obtaining a settlement of $210,854.50. The payment,
                    however, was to be made in Mexican bonds which were worth only one-third their par value. By 1891
                    Sturm still had not received either the bonds or their cash equivalent, so he and his lawyer made
                    another trip to the Mexican capital. Apparently this trip 
                  
                     55 Sturm, American and Mexican Commission, 328; the
                            letter to Romero, dated August 23, 1867, is printed in same work, 319–328.
                  
                     56 Sturm, The Republic of Mexico and Its American
                                Creditors, 85, 88, 92.
                  
                     57
                            Herman Sturm v. Mexico, U.S., Department of State
                            Records, Record Group 76, Docket 676. See also U.S., Congress, Senate, Claims
                                on the Part of Citizens of the 
                                    United States
                                 and Mexico, 44th Cong., 2d Sess., 1877, Sen. Exec. Doc. No. 31, pp.
                            54–55.
                  
                     58 Matías Romero, Artículos sobre
                                México (Mexico, 1892), 16–17.
               
                     was successful, for later in the year Henderson sued Sturm
                    claiming the latter had not lived up to the agreement regarding the lawyer's commission
                    fee. Growing out of this wrangle was another litigation wherein the general sued the lawyer for
                    defamation of character and damages, but both legal actions were cut short by Henderson's
                    death in 1892.59 General Sturm lived on in 
                        Denver
                     where he amassed a small fortune in mining enterprises before his death on October 17,
                        1906.60
            
            Herman Sturm's contribution to the defense effort of the Mexican republic is generously
                    summed up in a letter from General Lew Wallace to President Díaz. Referring to an
                    official report of Minister Romero acknowledging that six or seven armies of the republic were
                    provisioned by Sturm, Wallace asked: 
                        How shall the value of such services be measured? By what standard, except the liberty of
                            your people, not to speak of the life of republican Mexico? It would insult you to speak
                            here as an accountant; time, energy, judgment, faithfulness, especially money advanced in
                            aid of the cause he espoused, are items which cannot all be tabulated and cast up. One thing
                            I know, he impoverished himself, his family, and many of his friends in the work to which he
                            dedicated himself.61
                  
                    
            
            Sturm's importance as a secret agent for Juárez has to be measured by the
                    quantity of munitions he purchased and forwarded to Mexico in those difficult years. In spite of the
                    fact that three ships he contracted for were lost at sea, and notwithstanding further losses due to
                    local revolts in 
                        Mexico
                    , the quantity of arms delivered was considerable.62
                    Sturm's efforts merit special attention because of his ability to buy military equipment on
                    the paper-thin credit of the republican government of Mexico. After all, the European intervention
                    was brought on by Mexico's lack of ability to honor its bonds or pay its foreign
                    obligations. And at the time of Sturm's employment Juárez had lost control of
                    most of the country; indeed, it was questionable if he would ever rule again from 
                        Mexico City
                    . But Herman Sturm, possessing invaluable contacts in the business, financial, and
                    munitions circles of the 
                        United States
                    , was able to buy about $2,000,000 worth of military hardware in exchange for
                    the constitutional government's promise to pay, an accomplishment deserving recognition as
                    well as compensation.
            
               
                  59
                        Ibid., 8, 9, 11, 49, 54.
               
                  60 Obituary in 
                            Denver
                        , 
                            Colorado
                        , Post, October 18, 1906, p. 2.
               
                  61 Wallace to Díaz, August 15, 1889, in Wallace, Autobiography, II, 864.
               
                  62
                        Circulares, I, 475–476, 477, 483.
            
         
         
         
         
            Daniel D. Pratt: Senator and Commissioner
            
                    Joseph E. Holliday
                    ∗
                
            The election of Daniel D. Pratt, of 
                        Logansport
                    , to the 
                        United States
                     Senate in January, 1869, to succeed Thomas A. Hendricks had come after a bitter
                    internal struggle within the ranks of the Republican members of the Indiana General Assembly. The
                    struggle was precipitated by James Hughes, of 
                        Bloomington
                    , who hoped to win the honor, but it also uncovered a personal feud between Lieutenant
                    Governor Will E. Cumback, an early favorite for the seat, and Governor Conrad Baker. Personal
                    rivalries threatened party harmony, and after several caucuses were unable to reach an agreement,
                    Pratt was presented as a compromise candidate. He had been his party's nominee for a Senate
                    seat in 1863, but the Republicans were then the minority party in the legislature. With a majority
                    in 1869, however, the Republicans were able to carry his election. Pratt's reputation in
                    the state was not based upon office-holding; he had held no important state office, and his only
                    legislative experience before he went to Washington in 1869 was service in two terms of the general
                    assembly. It was his character, his leadership in the legal profession in northern Indiana, and his
                    loyal service as a campaigner that earned for him the esteem of many in his party.
            Daniel D. Pratt's experience in the 
                        United States
                     Senate began with the inauguration of Ulysses S. Grant in March, 1869. Presiding over
                    the Senate was Schuyler Colfax, another Hoosier, who had just been inaugurated vice-president of the 
                        United States
                    . During the administration of President Andrew Johnson, the government had been
                    subjected to severe stress and strain between the legislative and executive branches. Differences
                    over reconstruction policy for the southern states and the attempted impeachment of the President in
                    the summer of 1868 had tended to shift the center 
                  
                     ∗ Joseph E. Holliday is professor of history at the
                            University of 
                                Cincinnati
                            . For his article dealing with Pratt's life up to the time of his
                            election to the Senate, see "Daniel D. Pratt: Lawyer and Legislator," Indiana Magazine of History, LVII (June, 1961), 99–126.
               
                    
                    
                  DANIEL D. PRATT
                  
                  Photograph from Russell M. Seeds (ed.). History of the Republican Party in
                                Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1899), 283.
               
                     of gravity of the governmental system from the presidency to
                    Congress. But with the advent of the Grant administration, closer working relationships between the
                    two branches was expected. As the months progressed, initiative and power came to rest principally
                    with a small group of senators—Roscoe Conkling, of 
                        New York
                    , Zachariah Chandler, of 
                        Michigan
                    , Simon Cameron, of Pennsylvania, and Oliver P. Morton, of Indiana, who had entered the
                    Senate in 1867. Pratt never belonged to this coterie of administration senators. His arrival on the
                    national scene was too recent to give him such prestige. Nor had he served his state in as
                    illustrious a capacity as Morton, who had been governor of Indiana, 1861–1867. Moreover,
                    in a body that included these leaders as well as the brilliant Carl Schurz, of 
                        Missouri
                    , and the rugged Lyman Trumbull, of 
                        Illinois
                    , the modest Pratt could never compete for leadership. He did, however, earn a
                    reputation for steady work, honesty, and sterling character.
            These traits were, perhaps, best exemplified in his services on various committees of the Senate.
                    During his term (1869–1875) he served on four standing committees and two select
                    committees of that body. Throughout his term he was a member of the committees on claims and
                    pensions, serving as chairman of the latter from December, 1872, until March, 1875.1 He also served on the Committee on the District of 
                        Columbia
                     for two sessions of the Forty-first Congress (1869–1870), and on the
                    Committee on Public Lands for three sessions of the Forty-third Congress (1873–1875).2 He served on two select committees—one, on the revision of the
                    laws, from December, 1870, to May, 1871, the other, on alleged outrages in the southern states, from
                    December, 1871, to March, 1873.3 But it was on the committees on claims and
                    pensions that he served most faithfully and where he made his greatest contribution. It was asserted
                    that during his last session in the Senate, he wrote seventy-five committee reports.4 David Turpie, who studied law under Pratt and whose later service in the Senate made him a
                    competent observer, wrote that 
                  
                     1 U.S., Congressional Globe, 41st Cong., 1st Sess.,
                            1869, 27; ibid., 42d Cong., 3d Sess., 1872–1873, Part 1, 56.
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., 41st Cong., 1st Sess., 1869, 27; U.S., Congressional
                                Record, 43d Cong., Special Sess., 1873, 48.
                  
                     3 U.S., Congressional Globe, 41st Cong., 3d Sess.,
                            1870–1871, Part 1, 40; ibid., 42d Cong., 2d Sess.,
                            1871–1872, Part 1, 42.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, June 22, 1877.
               
                     "when Mr. Pratt reported favorably on a claim no
                    senator questioned its validity."5
            
            From his experience with claims, Pratt found that at least one set of injured persons had no legal
                    redress at that time. These were southern Unionists whose property had been in the theater of war or
                    in the path of Union armies. In an able speech delivered on April 27, 1870, and which was probably
                    the finest he gave in the Senate, he pleaded for the recognition of claims for damages from these
                    loyal citizens. "The records of patriotism during the world's history,"
                    he said, "do not show sublimer examples of fortitude than were furnished by southern
                    loyalists during the devasting war." He indicated the various types of losses by these
                    people; he cited examples of the seizure of fuel, food, or livestock from loyal persons by Union
                    troops, of vessels in southern waters seized from loyal owners, and the occupation of buildings and
                    houses owned by loyal men for use by the Union armies.6 According to Turpie,
                    this speech of Pratt's had "a very long history in the sequel," and the
                    rules that he here suggested were later "followed, quoted, and cited as
                        authority."7 This question of the claims of any southerner was a
                    highly controversial subject in the postwar era. For several years fair-minded persons had urged
                    that some recognition be given to losses by southern Unionists, but the Radicals in Congress had
                    prevented legislation. Within a year after Pratt's speech, however, the Southern Claims
                    Commission was authorized by Congress on March 3, 1871. Radical opposition was overcome by the votes
                    of southern and border-state members and more liberal Republicans.8
            
            Another important type of legislation that resulted from the war dealt with veterans'
                    pensions. By 1871 pension laws were in a confused state. Between 1861 and 1871, nearly every
                    Congress had enacted legislation relating to pensions. Naturally they had liberalized these laws,
                    but this piecemeal accumulation of legislation in many instances became contradictory and
                    irreconcilable. It was asserted that by 1871 
                  
                     5 David Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1903), 215.
                  
                     6 U.S., Congressional Globe, 41st Cong., 2d Sess.,
                            1869–1870, Part 4, 3015–3020.
                  
                     7 Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times, 215.
                  
                     8 Frank W. Klingberg, "The Southern Claims Commission: A
                            Postwar Agency in Operation," 
                        Mississippi Valley
                                Historical Review, XXXIII (September, 1945), 198.
               
                     there were forty-four acts relating to pensions, many of which
                    were open to varying interpretations. There was general agreement that a codification was seriously
                    needed. A codification bill coming from the House Committee on Pensions passed the House in April,
                    1872. In the following session the Senate took it up, and Pratt, as chairman of the Committee on
                    Pensions, was in charge of steering the bill through the Senate. After consideration of amendments
                    and various conferences, it was approved by both houses and became a law on March 3, 1873.9 This law was a landmark in the history of Civil War pensions, not so much by
                    reason of its novel features, but because of its clarification of basic principles and a relatively
                    uniform rating of disabilities.
            The bills introduced by Pratt during his term in the Senate ranged over widely diverse fields. The
                    greatest number were private bills for pensions and claims, originating from Pratt's
                    membership and work on the pensions and claims committees. But a senator must give attention to the
                    local interests of his constituents. One such proposal about which there was considerable discussion
                    in Indiana was the need for a second Federal District Court. The only existing district court for
                    the state sat at 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; the necessity for travel to that city, with accompanying hardships and expense, was
                    the chief reason behind desire for a second court. Various members of Congress from Indiana
                    sponsored bills to establish one.10 Among the first duties of Pratt was to
                    present a memorial to the Senate from Hoosiers asking to have another court established. The
                    Judiciary Committee, however, was opposed to a new judicial district for Indiana at that time.11 After a few months, Congress voted approval (1870) for additional terms of
                    the Indiana District Court to sit at 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Evansville
                    , but suits for these terms were still to be instituted at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Pratt then introduced a bill in the Third Session of the Forty-first Congress which
                    would have authorized the appointment of deputy clerks in 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Evansville
                    , in order to reduce 
                  
                     9 John W. Oliver, History of the Civil War Military
                                Pensions, 1861–1885 (Bulletin of the University of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , No. 844, History Series, Vol. IV, No. 1; 
                                Madison
                            , 
                                Wis.
                            , 1917), 35–37.
                  
                     10 D. P. Jenkins to Pratt, December 6, 1869, Daniel D. Pratt MSS
                            (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind.). Cited hereafter as Pratt MSS.
                  
                     11 U.S., Congressional Globe, 41st Cong., 1st Sess.,
                            1869, 31; Lyman Trumbull to Pratt, December 29, 1869, Pratt MSS.
               
                     expenses of travel for institution of cases. A similar bill was
                    introduced in the House of Representatives by Michael C. Kerr, Democratic representative from 
                        New Albany
                    , and passed that body. Pratt devoted his efforts to secure passage of Kerr's
                    bill in the upper house. He was successful, and the bill became a law.12 But
                    this accomplishment did not completely satisfy Hoosier constituents. Under additional pressure from
                    the Indiana legislature in March, 1874, Pratt again sought authorization of a second district court
                    in his state, but his bill was once more adversely reported by the Judiciary Committee.13
            
            Another proposal which was urged by officials and legislators in Indiana was one to obtain from the
                    federal government what was regarded as the state's share of the "Two per-cent
                    Fund." This fund referred to a donation promised by the federal government to Indiana at
                    the time of her admission to the Union in 1816. From proceeds of the sale of public lands in
                    Indiana, 3 per cent was to be given for internal improvements within the state and an additional 2
                    per cent was to be used by the federal government for roads leading to and through the state.14 While the 3 per cent had been paid, it was asserted that the 2 per cent had
                    not. Similar arrangements with the states of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     had not been carried out. On January 4, 1872, the governors of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     joined with the governor of Indiana to urge their respective delegations in Congress to
                    work for payment of the 2 per cent. Pratt was one of those who urged the Senate to take action on
                    this matter, but without success.15
            
            One of Senator Pratt's pet proposals was a series of bills granting to his state the beds of
                    small unsurveyed lakes and rivers. Many areas of northern Indiana were originally marsh and swamp
                    lands with winding, sluggish streams. Under the Swamp Land Act of 1850 most of these lands had been
                    handed over to the state.16 Since the surveys under that 
                  
                     12 U.S., Congressional Globe, 41st Cong., 3d Sess.,
                            1870–1871, Part 3, 1740, 1865; U.S., Statutes at Large, XVII
                            (1871–1873), 330.
                  
                     13 U.S., Congressional Record, 43d Cong., 1st Sess.,
                            1873–1874, Part 5, 4978.
                  
                     14 John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From
                                Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), I, 229.
                  
                     15 U.S., Congressional Globe, 42d Cong., 2d Sess.,
                            1871–1872, Part 2, 1759; ibid., Part 3, 2085–2090.
                  
                     16 Benjamin H. Hibbard, A History of the Public Land
                                Policies (
                                New York
                            , 1924), 273.
               
                     act had been completed some rivers had meandered and some ponds
                    and rivers had dried; their beds were then exposed and usable for farming.17
                    Squatters and owners of adjoining tracts clashed over title to these lands.
            One such controversy involved the bed of Beaver Lake in 
                        Newton County
                    . This was a lake of about sixteen thousand acres. The area around it had been given to
                    the state under the Swamp Land Act, and when the adjacent area was drained, the lake disappeared.
                    Its bed was claimed by three sets of persons. One group claimed it under the pre-emption laws, a
                    second, under the state laws, while a third sought rights as riparian owners. In 1872 Congress
                    passed a bill giving the area to the state.18 A similar bill, urged by Pratt,
                    applied to the Little Calumet River area in Porter and 
                        Lake counties
                    , but it was buried in committee.19
            
            Pratt then sought passage of a general bill that would have ceded beds of all unsurveyed lakes to the
                    states wherein they lay.20 Even though the commissioner of the General Land
                    Office recommended the passage of such an act, Pratt met with no success. During the closing weeks
                    of his term, he sought to persuade the Senate to take some action on his bill. He concluded his
                    remarks by saying: 
                        Mr. President, in a few weeks more I shall cease to be a member of this body. Senators have
                            not failed to see that this bill is a pet scheme of mine. I would fain carry with me into my
                            retirement the consciousness that I have contributed to place upon the statute-book a
                            measure which will commend me to somebody's gratitude. I think I shall experience a
                            positive satisfaction when I visit, as I often do, the beautiful lakes which gem the
                            northern part of my State in the reflection that they are now hers, and hers because of my
                            suggestion and of the kindness with which the Senate has listened to my advocacy.21
                  
                    
            
            A point of law which Pratt had encountered in his legal practice related to maritime jurisdiction in
                    inland waters, and this was the basis for another bill introduced by him. Recent decisions of the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court had 
                  
                     17 A. B. Ball, County Auditor, to Pratt, December 21, 1876, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     18 U.S., Congressional Globe, 42d Cong., 2d Sess.,
                            1871–1872, Part 2, 1348–1352; U.S., Statutes at
                            Large, XVII (1871–1873), 409.
                  
                     19 U.S., Congressional Globe, 41st Cong., 2d Sess.,
                            1869, Part I, 896.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 42d Cong., 3d Sess., 1872–1873, Part I, 339.
                  
                     21 U.S., Congressional Record, 43d Cong., 2d Sess.,
                            1874–1875, Part 1, 414.
               
                     transferred exclusive jurisdiction in maritime cases to the
                    federal courts. This meant that even for minor suits citizens had to use those courts. In the
                    Forty-first Congress (1869–1870), Pratt introduced a bill that would have restored
                    concurrent jurisdiction in torts and minor contracts in maritime cases to the states. In his first
                    lengthy speech before the Senate on January 13,1870, he spoke for his bill. He reminded the Senate
                    that "citizens in certain western states have found themselves deprived of justice in a
                    prompt and reasonable way" by such exclusive jurisdiction of the federal courts. This was a
                    complaint that was closely related to that of only one district court in the state—the
                    expense and delay in the federal court contrasted with the "easy and convenient redress in
                    the state courts near at hand."22 But the Senate committee never
                    reported the bill.23
            
            From his membership on the Committee on Public Lands, Pratt became concerned about rights of
                    pre-emption. During the Forty-second Congress (1871–1873) he introduced two bills that
                    would have strengthened the rights of settlers on the national domain who might have difficulty with
                    the land-grant railroads. One was adversely reported by the committee, and the other was buried in
                        committee.24 Other bills introduced by Pratt included an act to authorize
                    the construction of the Wyoming and 
                        Montana
                     Railroad, a project in which John D. Defrees had an interest,25 and
                    a bill to establish a national university.26 Neither was successful.
            Pratt's record, then, as a sponsor of successful legislation was not impressive. To assume,
                    however, that he was a "back-bencher" would be unwarranted. He was not a silent
                    witness in the Senate chamber. Not only was he active in committee work, but from time to time he
                    forcefully stated his views on national issues that loomed large at the time. Among these were the
                    southern question, the demoralization of the civil service, financial questions, and railroad
                    regulation.
            
               
                  22 U.S., Congressional Globe, 41st Cong., 2d Sess.,
                        1869–1870, Part 1, 413–416.
               
                  23
                        Ibid., x.
               
                  24
                        Ibid., 42d Cong., 1st Sess., 1871, Part 1, 92–96; ibid., 3d Sess., 1872–1873, Part 1, 725.
               
                  25
                        Ibid., 42d Cong., 3d Sess., 1872–1873, Part 1, 590; John D. Defrees
                        to Pratt, April 20 and June 22, 1870, Pratt MSS. For identification of Defrees, see pp.
                        26–27.
               
                  26 U.S., Congressional Record, 43d Cong., 1st Sess.,
                        1873–1874, Part 1, 77.
            
            
            The southern question occupied an important place in politics during Pratt's term in the
                    Senate. When he took his seat, there were a number of pieces of unfinished business relating to
                    reconstruction still to be debated. The Fourteenth Amendment had been adopted, and the Fifteenth
                    Amendment had just been submitted to the states before he took his seat. The session of the Indiana
                    General Assembly which had elected Pratt as senator (1869) was concluded by the resignation of the
                    Democrats in an attempt to prevent ratification of the controversial Fifteenth Amendment. A special
                    session was then called, and ratification was pushed through "in a manner of doubtful
                        constitutionality."27 The last of the former Confederate states was
                    not admitted to representation in Congress until 1870, and it was in 1872 that all but the most
                    prominent ex-Confederates were relieved of political disabilities by a general amnesty act. Violence
                    appeared in many parts of the South during this time, resulting in the passage of the Enforcement
                    Acts of 1870 and 1872. Senator Charles Sumner's Supplementary Civil Rights Bill was also
                    being urged by some Radicals to protect more of the civil rights of Negroes.
            Pratt had never been considered an extremist before his election. His reputation was that of a
                    conservative. Perhaps this was partly because of his comparative absence from public life during the
                    war years. During the early years of his senatorial term, he was sought as a campaigner in those
                    localities in which a moderate position on the Negro question was expected to win more Republican
                    votes than a radical one.28 Yet during his term in the Senate, he supported the
                    reconstruction program of the Radicals and was one of the most forceful advocates of
                    Sumner's Civil Rights Bill.
            When in April, 1869, Senator Morton introduced a bill to add ratification of the Fifteenth Amendment
                    to the requirements for readmission of the remaining former Confederate states, Pratt voted for the
                        proposal.29 The reports of the committee investigating election disorders in 
                        North Carolina
                     in 1871 shocked him. "It is a reproach to the Republic," he said in
                    the Senate, "and a confession of its failure as a Government that such things may
                    occur…. "30 Appointed 
                  
                     27 Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II, 197.
                  
                     28 W. C. Gooding to A. H. Conner, August 23, 1870, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     29 U.S., Congressional Globe, 41st Cong., 1st Sess.,
                            1869, 666.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., 42d Cong., 1st Sess., 1871, Part 1, 504.
               
                     to membership on the select committee on alleged outrages in the
                    southern states, he was given an opportunity to tour 
                        Mississippi
                     and 
                        Alabama
                     to hear testimony. This experience convinced him of the need for strengthening the
                    Enforcement acts.31 Nevertheless, when the General Amnesty Bill of 1872 was
                    discussed, Pratt announced his willingness to vote for it, declaring that while he believed that
                    most Southerners were not "cured of their heresy," it was then safe to remove
                    penalties—even expedient to do so.32
            
            When Sumner's Supplementary Civil Rights Bill was debated in 1874, its sponsor had just
                    died. Sumner had believed that existing legislation was not adequate in guaranteeing equal rights to
                    Negroes. His supplementary bill, consequently, would guarantee rights in hotels, theaters, public
                    schools, and other public places and forbid the exclusion of Negroes from jury duty.33 Pratt had long been an admirer of this old antislavery leader. In a strong speech given
                    on May 20, 1874, Pratt took an advanced position on civil rights. It reflected the altruism and
                    idealism of the Hoosier Senator. He stated his premise that: 
                        I believe what our fathers who laid the foundations of our political edifice taught, that all
                            men are created equal. I believe in a still older teaching—that God is no
                            respecter of persons, and that he made of one blood all nations of men to dwell on the face
                            of the earth….
                    Pointing out that the real objection to the proposed bill came from prejudice, he continued:
                    "The negro does not seek nor does this bill give him any of your peculiar social rights and
                    privileges. You may still select your own society and invite whom you will to your table."
                    The objection to "mixed schools," Pratt believed, had aroused the greatest
                    antagonism to the bill. Facing this issue squarely, he indicated that since the Negroes would be
                    voters, it would be folly to leave them uneducated. "Common gratitude, if nothing
                    else," he urged, "should prompt us to pass this bill."34 This speech was printed and mailed to Pratt's constituents. Its frank and candid
                    statements on the controversial racial question evoked mixed 
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., 2d Sess., 1871–1872, Part 5, 3586–3593.
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., Part 4, 3252.
                  
                     33 Moorfield Storey, Charles Sumner, Vol. XXX of American Statesmen, ed. John T. Morse, Jr. (32 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1882–1900), 402–406.
                  
                     34 U.S., Congressional Record, 43d Cong., 1st Sess.,
                            1873–1874, Part 5, 4081–4083.
               
                     reactions in Indiana. In some parts of the state, particularly
                    in the southern section, it was not too well received.35 But there was a genuine
                    quality and righteous fervor in his remarks that was reminiscent of the older idealistic character
                    of the antislavery movement. Pratt's statements elicited a complimentary letter from
                    Frederick Douglass, the Negro leader, who called it "a noble effort" and
                    "a nail in a sure place."36
            
            Idealists and reformers had long been troubled over another feature of public life—the
                    growing demoralization of the civil service. The scramble for public offices had been increasing.
                    Pratt witnessed the vicissitudes of appointive office during the first month of his term as senator,
                    when an old Hoosier friend and co-worker, John D. Defrees, was removed from the office of
                    congressional printer by a Republican senatorial caucus. Defrees was an old-line Whig newspaper
                    editor and one of the founders of the Republican party in Indiana. He was regarded as a teammate of
                    Schuyler Colfax, who was vice-president. He had been appointed superintendent of public printing by
                    President Lincoln in 1861 and had weathered an earlier effort to remove him from office. During the
                    controversy between President Johnson and Congress, Johnson attempted to remove Defrees from his
                    office, but Congress responded by making the office elective by the Senate. Congress saved Defrees
                    then, but in 1869 its Republican caucus voted to remove him.37
            
            The action of the caucus was widely reported to have been the result of a bargain between the
                    carpetbaggers in the Senate and the New Yorkers. This arrangement gave to A. M. Clapp, of the 
                        Buffalo
                    , 
                        New York
                    , Express the post of congressional printer, while John R. French, a
                    carpetbagger from 
                        North Carolina
                    , was elected to the lucrative post of sergeant-of-arms of the Senate.38 Berry R. Sulgrove later claimed that Defrees was turned out because of his known 
                  
                     35 T. R. McFerson to Pratt, August 17, 1874; George W. Friedley to
                            Pratt, August 15, 1876, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     36 [Daniel P. Baldwin], "Daniel D. Pratt," History of the Republican Party in Indiana, ed. Russell M. Seeds (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1899), 287.
                  
                     37
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, March 16, 1869; U.S., Congressional Globe,
                            39th Cong., 2d Sess., 1866–1867, Part 3, 1840.
                  
                     38
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, March 19, 24, 1869; John Defrees to Henry S. Lane, March 20,
                            1869, Henry S. Lane Papers (Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind.).
               
                     opposition to Grant and Morton.39 Whatever
                    the reasons might have been, the incident is an illustration of the precarious tenure of any federal
                    official at that time.
            On his election to the Senate, Pratt at once became aware of pressure from party workers seeking
                    federal posts. Having never before been in a key position to recommend candidates for government
                    offices, he was doubly sensitive to the clamor for appointments when the Grant administration took
                    over. It seemed impossible to satisfy everyone. Representatives of factions and cliques within the
                    party relayed to him conflicting stories of party loyalty of various candidates for appointments. If
                    an applicant had been loyal to President Johnson in the previous administration, Pratt was soon
                    informed by his rivals.40 It is not possible to cite here the scores of letters
                    requesting government positions that reached Pratt; a few examples must suffice.
            The Cumback-Baker feud, which had been uncovered during the senatorial election of 1869, had many
                    ramifications in the patronage field. After his defeat for the Senate, Cum-back himself was an
                    applicant for "a first-class appointment" with the federal government, preferably
                    a foreign mission to a major country.41 Yet when he was appointed minister to
                    Portugal, he declined it.42 Finally, reasonable satisfaction was found when he
                    was appointed collector of internal revenue for the Fourth Indiana District.43
                    When news leaked out that Cumback had declined the offer of minister to Portugal, Ebenezer Dumont,
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , forwarded his request for that post to the two Indiana senators.44
            
            Pratt's delay in recommending Hiram Iddings, of Kendallville, to the post of pension agent
                    brought forth a 
                  
                     39 [Berry R. Sulgrove], "John D. Defrees," Indiana Magazine of History, II (September, 1906), 148. Defrees was
                            reappointed to the office by President Rutherford B. Hayes and held it thereafter until
                            1892.
                  
                     40 Godlove S. Orth to Pratt, April 5, 1869; A. L. Robinson to George
                            W. Julian, April 7, 1869; A. J. Way to Pratt, April 9, 1869, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     41 Will E. Cumback to Pratt, February 23, 1869, and May 17, 1869,
                            Pratt MSS.
                  
                     42 Will E. Cumback to Pratt, February 24, 1870, Pratt MSS; Hamilton
                            Fish, Secretary of State, to Cumback, February 7, 1870, Will E. Cumback Papers (Lilly
                            Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind.).
                  
                     43 A. Pleasanton, Commissioner of Internal Revenue, to Cumback, April
                            1, 1871, Will E. Cumback Papers.
                  
                     44 Ebenezer Dumont to Pratt, February 14, 1870, Pratt MSS.
               
                     number of letters. Iddings was a Republican member of the
                    Indiana General Assembly at the time of Pratt's election to the Senate. He was a bolter who
                    had refused to support the decision of the party caucus to elect Cumback to the Senate.
                    Pratt's delay appeared to some of Iddings' friends to indicate that Pratt was
                    being influenced by Cumback and his friends.45 Pratt denied that this was the
                    reason for his hesitation and stated that he never intended to "discriminate against Mr.
                    Cumback or the Bolters." He wrote that he "took no sides" in that contest
                    but simply wished to investigate.46
            
            On at least one occasion President Grant gave no opportunity to the Indiana senators to propose an
                    appointee to a vacancy in the state. In August, 1869, David McDonald, judge of the 
                        United States
                     District Court in Indiana was reported to be dying, and a letter came from J. J. Hayden
                    to Pratt urging the appointment of Abram W. Hendricks to that post.47 When
                    McDonald died, however, President Grant surprised everyone by appointing Walter Q. Gresham as the
                    new judge before any recommendations reached him from the Indiana senators.48
            
            Uncertainty and pressure from office-seekers thus claimed too much time of members of Congress. In
                    1872, speaking in favor of an appropriation to continue the recently appointed and short-lived Civil
                    Service Commission, Pratt recalled the contest for offices in 1869: 
                        No one can forget the scramble for office which took place on the inauguration of General
                            Grant…. For weeks the public business was obstructed…. The mails were
                            loaded with applications and recommendations…. Little was thought of or done by
                            members of Congress but to weigh the merits of applicants…. I recur to it, sir,
                            as a horrid dream, and I hope never to be subjected to such humiliation of solicitation
                            again. The system is all wrong.49
                  
                    
            
            Not only was the pressure for positions in the civil service a scandal, but the moral tone of the
                    entire public service was low. Corruption touched members of Congress. The scandal that struck
                    closest to Pratt was that implicating his 
                  
                     45 James S. Frazer to Pratt, March 30, 1869; Hiram Iddings to Pratt,
                            April 22, 1869, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     46 Pratt to James S. Frazer, April 2, 1869, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     47 J. J. Hayden to Pratt, August 2, 1869, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     48 J. J. Hayden to Pratt, September 2, 1869, Pratt MSS; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, September 3, 1869.
                  
                     49 U.S., Congressional Globe, 42d Cong., 2d Sess.,
                            1871–1872, Part 2, 1567.
               
                     old friend, Schuyler Colfax, with Oakes Ames and Credit
                    Mobilier. The charge that Colfax had accepted twenty shares of stock in this company from Ames and
                    had received dividends from these was a hard blow to the friends of Colfax. Pratt's nephew
                    wrote from 
                        Logansport
                    : "Morally, Colfax is guilty; legally, it stands in the category of cases so
                    familiar to us, ‘Guilty, but not proved’. He is dead and never will be
                        resurrected."50 Other friends voiced similar beliefs.51 But Pratt refused to believe Colfax was guilty. When Colfax, as the presiding officer
                    of the Senate, asked for a committee of that body to investigate the charges against him, it was
                    Pratt who moved that the request be granted. He did so by saying that "it would require a
                    great deal more evidence than I have seen or heard to convince the people of the State of Indiana
                    that he [Colfax] is a dishonest or dishonorable man." The Senate refused to investigate.52
            
            Colfax was very appreciative of Pratt's testimony, and a few months later in offering to
                    speak in the political canvass for Pratt's re-election, he wrote: 
                        I can never forget that one man spoke out publicly, a few brave, earnest words as to his
                            faith in me when a pitiless storm of calumny was fiercely beating upon me and his name was
                            Daniel D. Pratt. And I say to him now as I did at 
                                Washington
                             that Ames never paid or offered to pay one dollar on any account whatever in
                            check or cash or stock or bond.53
                  
                    One of Colfax's biographers reprints a letter from Pratt to Colfax in which Pratt
                    wrote: 
                        I have thought that he [Ames] was honest in his statement of his memory of the transaction,
                            while I never doubted for a moment that he was mistaken, and that your version was the true
                            one. Such, I have little doubt, will be the ultimate judgment of all, as it is already of
                                most.54
                  
                    Colfax's most recent biographer has very carefully sifted the evidence and reaches
                    the conclusion that while Colfax "tampered with a stock with which he should have had
                    nothing to do," the evidence that he received dividends is far from 
                  
                     50 D. P. Baldwin to Pratt, March 25, 1873, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     51 A. L. Osborn to Pratt, March 27, 1873; Henry J. Hayden to J. J.
                            Hayden, February 5, 1873, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     52 U.S., Congressional Globe, 42d Cong., 3d Sess.,
                            1872–1873, Part 2, 895.
                  
                     53 Colfax to Pratt, May 6, 1873, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     54 O. J. Hollister, Life of Schuyler Colfax (
                                New York
                            , 1886), 433n.
               
                     conclusive, and that he should be given the benefit of the
                        doubt.55
            
            The same Congress that witnessed the disgrace of Colfax itself angered the country by passing the
                    Salary Grab or Back Pay Bill. This act increased the salaries of high government officials, and a
                    last-minute amendment made the advance for members of Congress retroactive for two years. It was
                    this retroactive feature that aroused so much public indignation. One of Pratt's
                    correspondents wrote that public hostility to the bill amounted "almost to a frenzy. The
                    ordinarily quiet and reasonable become violent and uncompromising in talking about it."56 Pratt not only voted against the bill but pointed out the political folly of
                    passing it.57 Many senators refused to accept their share of the back pay and
                    followed the leadership of Schurz, Wilson, and Pratt in returning it to the Treasury within a few
                    weeks after it was received. Pratt's bonus was $4,121, which he returned in
                    April, 1873.58 Senator Morton also returned his share.59
            
            When Congress assembled in December, 1873, there were many members who believed they should try to
                    undo some of the damage that the Salary Grab Bill had already done to their prestige. Pratt was one
                    of these, and he presented a bill that would have revised downward the compensation for members of
                        Congress.60 He was more active in the discussion over compensation than in
                    debate over any other piece of legislation during that session of Congress. He told his colleagues:
                        
                        Since we left here last spring no act of Congress … has been more generally
                            criticised, I should rather say denounced. In every form in which public sentiment finds
                            expression in this country … the law has been condemned and its repeal
                                demanded.61
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     55 Willard H. Smith, Schuyler Colfax: The Changing
                                Fortunes of a Political Idol (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXIII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1952), 415.
                  
                     56 T. H. Bringhurst to Pratt, January 11, 1874, Pratt MSS; see also
                            letter from D. P. Baldwin to Pratt, March 10, 1873, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     57 U.S., Congressional Globe, 42d Cong., 3d Sess.,
                            1872–1873, Part 3, 2184.
                  
                     58
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, January 6, 1874; Charles Pratt to Pratt, March 25, 1873, Pratt
                            MSS.
                  
                     59 William D. Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton (2
                            vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1899), II, 314–315.
                  
                     60 U.S., Congressional Record, 43d Cong., 1st Sess.,
                            1873–1874, Part 1, 2.
                  
                     61
                            Ibid., 356.
               
                     The new bill reducing salaries became a law in January, 1874.62
            
            It would take more than this new bill to restore the confidence of the voters in their government. It
                    was rough political weather for the Republican party. The financial and currency issues of the
                    decade also contributed to its difficulties. There was a strong inflationary sentiment in Indiana
                    during the 1870's. This sentiment was not confined to either major political party,
                    although it found more effective expression through the Democratic party than through the
                        Republicans.63 In 1869 the Indiana General Assembly instructed its senators
                        
                        to oppose by their influence and votes the passage of any bill that shall specially legalize
                            coin contracts, until the 
                                United States
                             shall redeem its Treasury Notes in coin; and to oppose the enactment of any law
                            which shall have the effect to reduce the present volume of the paper money in use among the
                            people of the 
                                United States
                            .64
                  
                    Senators Pratt and Morton were both regarded as inflationists, but some of the Democratic
                    leaders appeared to be more convincing to inflation-minded voters of Indiana. Daniel W.
                    Voorhees' speeches in 1870 were so convincing that the state Republican chairman, A. H.
                    Conner, wrote to Pratt to ask for "a good document for immediate circulation on the
                    subject" of finance. He continued: 
                        Voorhees has been making quite a number of speeches on the financial condition of the
                            country, and has succeeded in making a number of former Republicans believe that the country
                            is in great distress, and I fear the circulation of his speech joined with his personal
                            efforts will induce many to leave our party and identify themselves with the Democracy.65
                  
                    
            
            With the Panic of 1873, pressure for inflation increased. When Pratt met with a committee of 
                        Indianapolis
                     business leaders at the Bates House on November 14, 1873, there was no question about
                    where they stood on this subject—they wanted inflation.66 Shortly
                    after Congress convened in 
                  
                     62
                            Ibid., 840.
                  
                     63 William G. Carleton. "The Money Question in Indiana
                            Politics, 1865–1900," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XLII (June, 1946), 119, 135.
                  
                     64 U.S., Congressional Globe, 41st Cong., 1st Sess.,
                            1869, 50; Indiana, Journal of the Senate, 46th Sess., (1869), 267 (Joint
                            Resolution No. 10), 468.
                  
                     65 A. H. Conner to Pratt, July 5, 1870, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     66 Henry C. Griffin to Pratt, November 10, 1873, Pratt MSS. For an
                            analysis of western financial views at this time, see George L. Anderson, "Western
                            Attitudes Toward National Banks, 1873–74," 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XXIII (September,
                            1936), 205–216.
               
                     December, 1873, Pratt stated his own views on the need for more
                    currency, and his speech was widely circulated in 
                  Chicago, Cincinnati
               , and Indiana
                        newspapers.67 Pratt told the Senate: 
                        The voice of the entire West, if I except capitalists and bankers, who have money to loan, is
                            emphatic that we require more currency. There is one test which I regard as demonstrative
                            that we have too little money. I refer to the extraordinarily high rate of interest which
                            prevails throughout the western country. There must be a real scarcity when for legitimate
                            purposes money commands 12 per cent.68
                  
                    
            
            Two months later Pratt declared his position with respect to the legal restriction on the volume of
                    national bank notes. He believed that this virtually granted a monopoly to the national banks, and
                    "chartered privilege is hateful to Americans." He maintained he would support
                    every proposal to increase the national bank note circulation. He was also opposed to early
                    resumption of specie payments by the federal government and announced that he would "vote
                    against every scheme looking toward resumption at that time."69 In
                    April, 1874, a Senate inflationary bill authorizing an increase in legal tender notes by
                    $18,000,000 and national bank notes by $46,000,000 passed Congress. Both
                    Indiana senators voted for it.70 When President Grant unexpectedly vetoed the
                    bill, Pratt voted to enact it over the veto, but the effort failed.71 Up to this
                    time, Pratt's record on the currency question was consistent. But eight months later when
                    the Resumption Act of 1874 was enacted and support for it was made a party test, both Indiana
                    senators voted in favor of resumption. Indeed, the entire Indiana Republican delegation in Congress
                    supported the bill in spite of strong inflationist sentiment in their home state.72
            
            On still another issue that became significant in the 1870's—that of railroad
                    regulation—Pratt favored some type of federal regulation. On December 3, 1873, he offered
                    a resolution directing the Committee on the Judiciary 
                  
                     67 J. T. Bryer to Pratt, December 22, 1873, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     68 U.S., Congressional Record, 43d Cong., 1st Sess.,
                            1873–1874, Part 1, 195.
                  
                     69
                            Ibid., Part 2, 1513.
                  
                     70
                            Ibid., Part 3, 2835.
                  
                     71
                            Ibid., Part 4, 3436.
                  
                     72 William G. Carleton, "The Money Question in Indiana
                            Politics, 1865–1900," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XLII (June, 1946), 124–125.
               
                    
                    
                        to inquire whether Congress, under the powers conferred upon it by the Constitution
                            … has authority, without the consent of the State affected, to create
                            corporations to construct railroads or canals penetrating two or more States, and also,
                            whether it has the power to regulate by law, without such consent, the rates of compensation
                            for the carriage of persons and property over existing railroads, chartered by States, which
                            by consolidation have continuous lines running into or through two or more States.73
                  
                     This resolution appears to have been an attempt to get some expression from the committee
                    on the subject of federal regulation. Again, in June, 1874, in speaking about a resolution to
                    provide cheap transportation, Pratt stated his belief that the public was asking for regulation of
                    fares and freight shipped over interstate lines. "The people," he said,
                    "are not hostile to the railroads, but to their combinations and discriminatory and
                    exhorbitant rates."74 Pratt was well informed regarding the great
                    strength of the Granger movement in his own state by 1874.75 Although he favored
                    some type of regulation of railroads, such national regulation did not come for over a decade.
            Pratt's views on these national issues were further developed during his campaigns to aid
                    the Republican ticket in the biennial elections of 1870, 1872, and 1874. Pratt did not attend the
                    Republican state conventions in these years but remained in 
                        Washington
                    . Nevertheless he did participate in the campaigns which followed. The Republican state
                    convention that convened in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on February 22, 1870, brought Morton back from Washington. Even though his health was
                    poor, whenever possible Morton attended state conventions to mend his political fences and make his
                    presence felt. In 1870 he gave the main address before the convention, devoting considerable
                    attention to the wartime financing of the state and recalling the obstruction by the Democrats to
                    his administration as governor. He was particularly strong in his denunciation of Voorhees'
                    war record. After urging economy in both state and national governments, he reminded the audience
                    that the Republican party was "yet in its youth, fresh and vigorous." The audience
                    applauded wildly. The state Republican platform called for a reduction in the tariff 
                  
                     73 U.S., Congressional Record, 43d Cong., 1st Sess.,
                            1873–1874, Part 1, 29.
                  
                     74
                            Ibid., Part 5, 4990–4992.
                  
                     75 T. H. Bringhurst to Pratt, January 11, 1874; [first name illegible]
                            Woodworth to Pratt, June 2, 1873, Pratt MSS.
               
                     and taxes, "rejoiced" in the ratification of
                    the Fifteenth Amendment, and praised Senator Morton for his exertions in favor of it.76 Defense of the Fifteenth Amendment was one of the chief tasks of Republican
                    campaigners.
            In planning his speaking engagements in the summer of 1870, Pratt wrote to A. H. Conner, Republican
                    state chairman: 
                        I would prefer not to operate in the large cities like 
                        Terre Haute, Vincennes,
                                    Evansville
                     , and 
                                New Albany
                            , which are visited by the best political speakers and where I might do more
                            harm than good. My preference would be to speak to audiences mainly made up of plain farmers
                            and mechanics—and to visit such parts as are omitted by first-class speakers.77
                  
                    This is a rather humble letter, but it was in keeping with Pratt's character.
                    Conner replied that outside of northern Indiana there was need for Pratt's services in
                    certain districts along the Ohio River and in the 
                        Terre Haute
                     district. After covering these, Conner wrote, Pratt could canvass northern Indiana.78
            
            The southern section of the state required careful attention from Republicans. There, the recent
                    ratification of the Fifteenth Amendment was a heavy burden for the Republicans to carry. Moreover,
                    the Cumback-Baker feud must have had its effect on the smooth working of the party machine, although
                    Cumback loyally supported the Republican ticket in 1870.79 W. C. Gooding, who
                    was making a race for Congress against William E. Niblack, of 
                        Vincennes
                    , sent an urgent request to have Pratt come into the southwestern district. "By
                    all means send us Pratt and send him soon," he wrote to Conner; "no other man will
                    do as well down here just now."80 Vice-President Colfax, who had been
                    accused of neglecting his home state, lent his efforts in the campaign, and Senator John Sherman, of 
                        Ohio
                    , came into the state to help.81 In spite of these efforts, the
                    Democrats made gains 
                  
                     76
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, February 23, 1870; W. E. Henry (comp.), State
                                Platforms of the Two Dominant Political Parties in Indiana, 1850–1900 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1902), 37.
                  
                     77 Pratt to A. H. Conner, August 11, 1870, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     78 A. H. Conner to Pratt, August 15, 1870, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     79 Seeds, History of the Republican Party in
                            Indiana, 40; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, July 25, 28, August 8, 1870.
                  
                     80 W. C. Gooding to A. H. Conner, August 23, 1870, Pratt MSS; see also
                            Millis Record to Pratt, August 30, 1870, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     81
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, September 20, 1870.
               
                     in this campaign. Of the eleven congressmen elected, five were
                    Democrats—a gain of one. The Democrats also elected a majority in the state legislature
                    as well as their slate of state officials.82
            
            As the presidential election year of 1872 approached, the confidence of the regular Republicans was
                    considerably shaken by the growing Liberal Republican movement. This opposition to
                    "Grantism," the high tariff, and radical reconstruction was expressed by a number
                    of Pratt's correspondents. Grant's Caribbean policy, particularly his proposed
                    annexation of Santo Domingo, was also a target for criticism.83 In January,
                    1871, the Democratic majority in the Indiana General Assembly, with the help of a few Republican
                    votes, enacted resolutions against the proposal to annex Santo Domingo, instructed their senators to
                    vote against ratification of the annexation treaty, and then sent the resolutions to Senator Charles
                    Sumner, of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , for presentation to the Senate.84 Sumner was an ardent opponent of
                    annexation.
            William R. Holloway, postmaster at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , hastened to inform Pratt that the author of this resolution, Jason B. Brown, of 
                        Jackson County
                    , was "one of the bitterest and most disloyal Democrats during the last
                    war" and had always opposed Sumner's principles. He urged Pratt to explain to
                    Sumner the origin of the resolutions and suggest that Sumner return them.85 It
                    is not known if Pratt did so, but Sumner did present them.86 As the chairman of
                    the powerful Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, Sumner was able to defeat ratification of the
                    annexation treaty. But through the efforts of the administration and its senatorial friends, Sumner
                    was removed from his post as chairman at the next session of Congress. In the party caucus on
                    committee assignments, Pratt was reported as refusing to vote for Sumner's removal.87
            
            When the Republican state convention met at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on February 22, 1872, William H. H. Terrell, third assistant 
                  
                     82 Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II, 199.
                  
                     83 C. H. Allen to Pratt, March 12, 1871, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     84 Indiana, Brevier Legislative Reports, XII (1871),
                            52.
                  
                     85 W. R. Holloway to Pratt, January 10, 1871, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     86 U.S., Congressional Globe, 41st Cong., 3d Sess.,
                            1870–1871, Part 1, 661; Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton, II,
                            168n.
                  
                     87 John B. Niles to Pratt, March 14, 1871, Pratt MSS.
               
                     postmaster general, formerly adjutant general of Indiana, came
                    back to lend his efforts toward having the state convention instruct its delegates to the national
                    convention to support Grant.88 The ground swell against renominating Grant was
                    assuming proportions that made this question of instruction of delegates a serious threat to party
                    harmony. Opposition to Grant was particularly strong around 
                        Richmond
                     and in the 
                        Terre Haute
                     district.89 The plan of the Grant managers was to include in the
                    platform which would be presented by the Committee on Resolutions instructions to the delegates to
                    the national convention to vote for Grant. In this way they hoped that specific debate on that
                    controversial topic would be reduced. Furthermore, it was arranged to place the presentation of the
                    platform toward the close of the day's work—after the nominees were chosen.
                    During the balloting on nominees a spirited debate occurred over the nomination for a
                    congressman-at-large. It was settled so amicably that Lew Wallace, a strong Grant supporter,
                    believed the moment was an appropriate time to "stampede" the delegates to
                    instruct the Indiana delegation for Grant—a move not in keeping with the carefully
                    prepared plan of Grant's managers. Confusion followed, and Wallace withdrew his proposal.
                    With this dissentious topic temporarily postponed, the convention returned to the choice of
                    nominees. By the time the platform was presented, the delegates were tired and hungry. Included in
                    the platform was a plank instructing the national delegates for Grant and Colfax. The platform was
                    approved as presented, and in this manner Indiana Republican delegates were officially committed to
                    Grant's renomination.90
            
            Senator Pratt was not enthusiastic about Grant's renomination. In April, 1871, Senator
                    Morton was serenaded by the Indiana residents of Washington at the National Hotel. At this time,
                    Morton endorsed Grant in a speech in which he claimed that Grant was "a greater Radical
                    today 
                  
                     88
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Enquirer, February 21, 1872; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, February 21, 1872.
                  
                     89
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, February 17, 22, 1872; C. H. Allen to Pratt, March 12, 1871,
                            Pratt MSS; Charles Roll, Colonel Dick Thompson: The Persistent Whig (Indiana
                                Historical Collections, Vol. XXX; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1948), 203.
                  
                     90
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, February 23, 24, 29, 1872; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Enquirer, February 23, 1872; Henry, State Platforms of the
                                Two Dominant Political Parties in Indiana, 1850–1900,
                        42–44.
               
                     than some of those who started out before him." On the
                    balcony with Morton were Colfax and members of the Indiana congressional delegation. But Pratt was
                    not reported by the papers as being present.91 In the following year Pratt
                    received several letters from the editor of the 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Journal, J. T. Bryer, expressing extreme dissatisfaction with Grant. He stated
                    that "I am glad you [Pratt] agree with me to some extent on the Presidential
                        question."92 But before the Liberal Republican convention met at 
                        Cincinnati
                     in May, 1872, Pratt had determined to support the Republican nominee and not affiliate
                    with this reform movement.93 When the Indiana delegates to the Republican
                    national convention at 
                        Philadelphia
                     visited Washington in June, 1872, Senator Morton arranged for them to call on President
                    Grant. A short note to Pratt from Morton's secretary informed him of the arrangements and
                    ended with the sentence, "Senator Morton desires you to be there."94 It was virtually a command. No evidence indicating whether Pratt responded has been
                    located.
            By June the canvass was well under way in the state. Pratt was the chief speaker at the Eighth
                    District convention at 
                        Logansport
                     on June 19.95 In early August he joined the host of Republican
                    speakers. Most of his engagements were in central and northern Indiana.96 The
                    Winchester Journal commented on his speech there: 
                        Senator Pratt spoke … at the City Hall last Thursday. His speech was like himself;
                            — a great big, sensible one. He made no attempt at oratory, but spoke in rather a
                            colloquial tone, dealing almost entirely with the financial and national questions. He
                            analyzed the impracticability of the financial plank of the Democratic platform….
                            He also gave his reasons for supporting the Civil Rights Bill…. There was no
                            mis-statement of facts or abuse of opponents so often indulged in by public
                                speakers….97
                  
                    
            
            The elections of that year in Indiana returned a Republican majority for Grant and a Republican
                    majority in the state legislature; seven of the eleven congressmen were 
                  
                     91
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, April 9, 1871.
                  
                     92 J. T. Bryer to Pratt, March 8, 16, April 26, May 1, 1872, Pratt
                            MSS. See also Morgan H. Weir to Pratt, March 18, 1872, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     93 Rufus Magee to Pratt, April 17, 1872, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     94 John Burbank to Pratt, June 2, 1872, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     95
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, June 20, 1872.
                  
                     96
                            
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, Palladium, August 10, 1872.
                  
                     97 Winchester, Indiana, Journal, August 10, 1872,
                            quoted in 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, Palladium, August 26, 1872.
               
                     Republicans, but the Democrats succeeded in electing Hendricks
                    as governor.98 The Republican organization now resolved on an unusually speedy
                    arrangement to assure Morton's reelection to the Senate. Since there were discontented
                    groups in nearly every county, and the Liberal Republicans were cooperating with the Democrats in
                    many counties, it was decided to re-elect Morton at a special session of the legislature, rather
                    than wait until the regular time. Governor Baker called a special session to meet in November, 1872,
                    and it was during this session that Morton was re-elected to the Senate.99 Two
                    years later, Pratt's term would expire, and by that time Republican fortunes were at a much
                    lower ebb.
            In the months following the elections of 1872 came the passage of the Salary Grab and disclosure of
                    the Credit Mobilier scandal involving Colfax. The Panic of 1873 also brought months of ruinous
                    deflation in its wake. The discontent of the farmers increased. To these handicaps facing
                    Republicans, the Republican-controlled Indiana General Assembly of 1873 added another. The Baxter
                    Law, a strict liquor control act, was passed and alienated German-Americans in the state, who
                    constituted a large bloc of Republican votes.100 Political times could not have
                    been more discouraging than those faced by Republican candidates in 1874.
            Pratt sought to prepare the best record possible in that election year. He supported repeal of the
                    Salary Grab Act and overriding the veto of the Inflation Act. But he also voted for
                    Sumner's Civil Rights Bill. When Senator Sumner died in April, 1874, Pratt joined with
                    others in the Senate to eulogize him. He chose to emphasize Sumner's devotion to his
                    convictions and his honesty in public life. "No lobbyist ever approached him with a
                    doubtful proposition," he reminded the Senate; "while suspicion fell from time to
                    time upon many names, often with cruel unjustice, … his integrity was never called in
                        question."101 In this way Pratt hoped to recall the idealism of one
                    of the former giants of the Republican party.
            
               
                  98 Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II, 199.
               
                  99 Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton, II,
                        268–269; 
                            Cincinnati
                        
                        Gazette, November 14, 1872; 
                            Cincinnati
                        
                        Commercial, November 27, 1872.
               
                  100 Seeds, History of the Republican Party in Indiana,
                        45, 47.
               
                  101 U.S., Congressional Record, 43d Cong., 1st Sess.,
                        1873–1874, Part 4, 3403; George L. Downing to Pratt, May 21, 1874, Pratt MSS.
            
            
            All members of the lower house of the state legislature, twenty-three members of the upper house of
                    fifty, various state officials, and all members of Congress from the state were to be elected in
                    1874. To add to the uncertainties, the legislature had again changed the congressional districts in
                    the state in the previous year.102 Those in charge of the Republican campaign
                    decided to have the state convention later than the usual time. When they gathered at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on June 17, 1874, enthusiasm was lacking. A pessimistic mood prevailed, and that mood
                    continued throughout the year. Neither Pratt nor Morton was present. Colonel Richard W. (Dick)
                    Thompson and Benjamin Harrison guided the convention's deliberations. The only unusual
                    episode at the convention was the presentation of a set of resolutions adopted by the German Press
                    Association of Indiana, attacking the Baxter Temperance Act and serving notice that those papers
                    would not support any candidate known to favor that law. Among other things, the platform favored
                    local option regarding liquor control and supported Sumner's Civil Rights Bill, which had
                    just passed the lower house of Congress.103
            
            Pratt came home from Washington in June sadly in need of a rest. He was ill with dropsy and suffering
                    from fatigue.104 The Republican state chairman urged him to start his campaign
                    not later than August 1, "as you are looked upon as a candidate for re-election."
                    He and Senator Morton advised Pratt to concentrate on the "close" counties.105 Upon the insistence of the state chairman, engagements in sixty counties
                    were arranged for Pratt.106 After a short vacation, Pratt started his speaking
                    tour at Eaton, Indiana, near 
                        Muncie
                    , in the August heat. He continued his campaign for only a few weeks.107
            
            In the campaign supplement of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal Pratt's speech at 
                        Kendallville
                     on August 29 was printed in 
                  
                     102 Seeds, History of the Republican Party in
                            Indiana, 47; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Gazette, October 16, 1874.
                  
                     103
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Gazette, June 18, 1874; Henry, State Platforms of the Two
                                Dominant Political Parties in Indiana, 1850–1900, 47–48.
                  
                     104
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Gazette, August 12, 1874; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, August 8, 1874.
                  
                     105 Thomas J. Brady to Pratt, July 17, 1874; Morton to Pratt, August
                            7, 1874, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     106 Thomas J. Brady to Pratt, July 21, 1874, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     107
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, August 8, 1874; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Gazette, August 12, 1874.
               
                     full. It was the general pattern for his speeches in this
                    campaign. Very little was said about state issues. He chose to deal with national issues of finance
                    and transportation and to defend the Civil Rights Bill. He recalled the record of the Republican
                    party in securing the adoption of the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth amendments, the passage
                    of the Homestead Act, and the Ku Klux acts. He likewise gave credit to that party for abolishing the
                    congressional franking privilege. As far as the scandals of that era were concerned, Pratt claimed
                    that "the glory of the Republican party is that it has never attempted to cover up those
                    sins of its own officers—never."108
            
            On September 3, because of illness, Pratt was unable to give his speech at 
                        La Porte
                    . He soon found he could no longer continue in the canvass.109 His
                    absence from the hustings made the campaign even more lethargic. Senator John Logan, of 
                        Illinois
                    , and Governor P. B. S. Pinchback, of 
                        Louisiana
                    , were brought in to help the Republicans.110 Senator Morton
                    returned from Hot Springs, 
                        Arkansas
                    , in time to give some speeches.111 By late September, the state
                    chairman, Thomas Brady, was most pessimistic about Republican success. He urged Pratt to resume his
                    campaign and deplored the lack of party funds. "The campaign thus far is the cheapest one
                    run in Indiana for twenty-five years," he wrote, and pointedly mentioned that Morton had
                    made "a liberal donation" before leaving for the West. "Can't
                    you raise something among your friends," he asked Pratt. "We need at least
                    $1,000 more than we can now count on."112
            
            In his circular letter mailed to precinct committeemen on the eve of the elections, Brady strove to
                    revive some of the fighting spirit by reminding them that "upon the result of this campaign
                    depends the future of Republicanism in this State, the election of a 
                        United States
                     Senator, the cause of Temperance, of equal rights for all men, and of National
                    honor." Should the Republicans go down in defeat, he warned, it would mean "the
                    success of the most disreputable pack of 
                  
                     108
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, September 16, 1874.
                  
                     109 Thomas J. Brady to Pratt, September 5, 1874, Pratt MSS; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, September 4, 1874.
                  
                     110
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Gazette, September 16, 30, 1874.
                  
                     111 Thomas J. Brady to Pratt, September 23, 1874, Pratt MSS; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Gazette, September 19, 1874.
                  
                     112 Thomas J. Brady to Pratt, September 30, 1874, Pratt MSS.
               
                     political demagogues who ever strove for power, banded together
                    in the name of Democracy, and representing all that is evil in society and the prejudices born of
                    ignorance and hatred."113
            
            The resurgence of Democratic strength in the postwar period continued in 1874. Only five of the
                    thirteen congressional districts were carried by the Republicans, and the Democrats won a
                    comfortable majority in the next legislature.114 It was this legislature that
                    would elect a 
                        United States
                     senator to succeed Pratt.
            The Democrats could elect a senator provided they could reach agreement on their candidate, but they
                    were seriously divided on the currency question. Their state platform had explicitly called for
                    inflation, and the inflationists within the party favored Voorhees, who had been a tower of strength
                    on the hustings and who had strong claims to the office. The conservative wing of the party,
                    however, favored Joseph E. McDonald, a hard-money man. The result would be largely determined by
                    Governor Thomas A. Hendricks, who was looking forward to his chances as the presidential nominee of
                    his party in 1876.115 For a time, it seemed as if the Democrats might have as
                    bitter an internecine fight in 1875 as the Republicans had in 1869. The Greenbackers in the
                    legislature also had a candidate for the senatorship, James Buchanan, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     lawyer and editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sun.
               116 They hoped to have the balance of power in the
                    election, but no hard-money candidate of either major party could expect to receive the support of
                    this set of thirteen Greenback independents.
            While Democratic party lines were very closely drawn, their caucus meetings appear to have been
                    lively. Hendricks threw his support to McDonald, whereupon Voorhees withdrew from the contest. The
                    inflationists in the party then sought to rally the caucus members behind William S. Holman, veteran
                    congressman from the southeastern part of the 
                  
                     113 Printed circular letter from Thomas J. Brady to precinct
                            committeemen, dated at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , October 1, 1874, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     114
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune Almanac and Political Register for 1875, 78.
                  
                     115 Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II, 201.
                  
                     116 William G. Carleton, "The Money Question in Indiana
                            Politics," Indiana Magazine of History, XLII (June, 1946),
                        118.
               
                     state.117 The 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Commercial sought to throw to Holman any influence it might have in Indiana by
                    devoting two full pages of its issue of January 8 to Holman's record—"A
                    Clean Congressional Record," "Fifteen Years without Stain." It carefully
                    analyzed his performance on war contracts, indefinite appropriations, "moiety
                    grabs" on government contracts, retrenchment in government expenses, soldiers'
                    pay, the banking monopoly, "railroad land grabs," the franking privilege of
                    congressmen, the protective tariff, paper money, and the "Goat Island swindle,"
                    and on every count found his record good.118 He was truly weighed in the balance
                    and not found wanting. In vain did Holman's friends in the Democratic caucus insist that
                    the election of McDonald would be a repudiation of their state platform's financial
                        plank.119 McDonald was the party candidate, the Democratic lines held, and
                    he was elected to the Senate on January 20, 1875, to succeed Pratt.120
            
            It appeared that Pratt would now have the opportunity which he had earlier claimed he
                    desired—to return to his law practice. But no sooner had he returned home from Washington
                    than he accepted the post of commissioner of internal revenue with the Grant administration. It was
                    at a time when the Treasury Department was convulsed by exposure of frauds. In June, 1874, President
                    Grant had appointed Benjamin H. Bristow as secretary of treasury. Bristow was recognized as a
                    conservative on financial questions, an advocate of civil service reform, and as devoted to
                        efficiency.121 It was generally assumed that a house cleaning was in order
                    in the Treasury Department. Bristow soon found evidence of a conspiracy between distillers and
                    revenue officers to defraud the government of the tax on liquor. J. W. Douglass, the commissioner of
                    internal revenue, was not dishonest, but he was certainly guilty of negligence. He could 
                  
                     117
                            Dictionary of American Biography (22 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928–1958), IX, 158–159.
                  
                     118
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, January 8, 1875.
                  
                     119
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Gazette, January 13, 1875; Henry, State Platforms of the Two
                                Dominant Political Parties in Indiana, 1850–1900, 44–46.
                  
                     120
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, January 21, 30, 1875.
                  
                     121
                            Dictionary of American Biography, III, 55–56.
               
                     not be permitted to continue, and Pratt was induced to take his
                        place.122
            
            Pratt's reputation as a man of sterling honesty, his long association with the Republican
                    party, and his freedom from close obligation to the senatorial clique made him an excellent man for
                    the post. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal regarded his appointment as "an eminently good one, since he is a
                    man of incorruptible and unquestioned ability."123 The 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette was also complimentary, stating that "the office needs a good
                    lawyer, a man of high executive qualities, firmness, and impregnable integrity."124 The news dispatches from 
                        Washington
                     stated that the appointment was "well-received in all quarters. His record in
                    Congress was never impeached in the slightest degree, and it is believed he will take hold
                    … with much vigor."125
            
            The existence of the Whiskey Ring was exposed on May 10, 1875, and five days later Commissioner Pratt
                    took charge of the bureau, just as Bristow's broom began to sweep the bureau clean. He
                    joined another recently-appointed Hoosier in the same department, John C. New, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who succeeded General Francis Spinner as treasurer of the 
                        United States
                    . New had served as quartermaster-general of Indiana during the Civil War. After the war
                    he entered the banking business and was president of the First National Bank at 
                        Indianapolis
                     when he was called to the post in the Treasury. He was destined to stay in office for
                    only a year.126
            
            Much of the work of furnishing the evidence for the prosecution of the criminals fell to
                    Pratt's direction. It was generally agreed that he performed his work with earnestness and
                        thoroughness.127 About 238 persons were eventually indicted and tried in the
                    courts. Within the next few months, Pratt proceeded to reorganize the entire bureau. Among the 
                  
                     122 Allan Nevins, Hamilton Fish: The Inner History of the
                                Grant Administration (
                                New York
                            , 1936), 762–767.
                  
                     123
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, May 6, 1875.
                  
                     124
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Gazette, May 6, 1875.
                  
                     125
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, May 6, 1875.
                  
                     126
                            Ibid., April 6, 1875; Seeds, History of the Republican Party
                                in Indiana, 208.
                  
                     127 H. V. Boynton, "The Whiskey Ring," North American Review, CXXIII (October, 1876), 302; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, May 6, 1875.
               
                     first steps was the appointment of Homer T. Yaryan as chief of
                    the Division of Revenue Agents. Yaryan was the key man used by Secretary Bristow to unearth the
                    evidence of the frauds. He was one of the most trustworthy agents in the department. Born near
                    Liberty, Indiana, he had been employed as a chemist in 
                        Cincinnati
                     before the Civil War. He then studied law in the office of his father at 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, before taking a post in the Treasury Department.128 Other
                    steps in the reorganization of the bureau included a new system of stamps and a consolidation of
                    districts throughout the country, reducing the number from 209 to 163. By November, 1875, Washington
                    dispatches claimed that "it is universally admitted that the Bureau has never been so
                    efficient as now."129
            
            As prosecution of those implicated in the Whiskey Ring came before the courts, the cases at 
                        St. Louis
                     received the most attention. As the story unfolded, the chief clerk of the Treasury
                    Department and the secretary to President Grant were shown to be implicated. Then President
                    Grant's ardor for reform cooled, and he even became vindictive toward those who had pressed
                    it. Just after the Republican National Convention of 1876 had adjourned, Secretary Bristow
                        resigned.130 The new secretary was Lot S. Morrill, a senator, who did not
                    demonstrate any indication to protect his subordinates in the department from presidential removal.
                    What was called by one newspaper correspondent as "a piece of characteristically childish
                    spite-work on the part of the President" was to force the removal of Homer T. Yaryan from
                    the service. Then, it was the turn of Commissioner Pratt to be forced out. It was understood that he
                    chose to leave because of failure to prevent the ousting of his able and efficient chief of revenue
                        agents.131 Pratt relinquished his duties on August 31, 1876, and once more
                    returned to 
                        Logansport
                     expecting to resume his practice of law.132
            
            
               
                  128
                        
                            Cincinnati
                        
                        Commercial, May 19, July 21, 1876.
               
                  129
                        Ibid., November 12, December 29, 1875.
               
                  130 E. Bruce Thompson, "The Bristow Presidential Boom of
                        1876," 
                     Mississippi Valley Historical Review,
                        XXXII (June, 1945), 29–30.
               
                  131 John Yaryan to Pratt, July 6, 1876; W. T. Wilson to Pratt, July 16,
                        1876; A. H. Holt to Pratt, January 24, 1877, Pratt MSS. Cincinnati Commercial,
                        June 29, July 2, 1876.
               
                  132 President's secretary to Pratt, August 17, 1876, Pratt
                    MSS.
            
            
            Pratt's reputation, however, was well established. The 
                        New York
                    
                    Times stated: "The resignation of Mr. Pratt is universally regretted and
                    his forced retirement at this time is charged upon the President by Republicans with expressions of
                    condemnation. Pratt has displayed very great ability and untiring industry."133 The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal commented on his resignation in even stronger terms: 
                        The removal or freezing out of such men as the Hon. D. D. Pratt …, not only a
                            strictly honest man, but one of the best Commissioners of Internal Revenue, if not the best,
                            since the organization of the Department—the removal of such a man, we say, is
                            calculated to bring the Administration into contempt.134
                  
                    Former Secretary Bristow wrote to commend Pratt on his "courageous
                    efforts" and "sterling virtues."135 A few months
                    later, Carl Schurz, in writing to President-elect Rutherford B. Hayes, recommended Pratt as a
                    possible appointee to the post of secretary of the interior. He called him "a man of high
                    character, good ability, and excellent principles."136
            
            Pratt's resignation was only one of many that came in that election year. In fact, there was
                    a virtual collapse in nearly all departments of the Grant administration, and it brought discredit
                    to Grant's party. Since Pratt's resignation came just as the Hayes-Tilden
                    presidential canvass was building momentum, it is not surprising that it had some political
                    repercussions in Indiana. Word reached Pratt in 
                        Washington
                     from John Coburn and others that, under the guise of a home-coming reception, the
                    Democrats intended to make political capital out of his resignation.137 Pratt
                    hurriedly wrote to his friends to try to avert such an embarrassment, since he had no wish to give
                    any aid or comfort to the opposing party. His friends believed that such a reception could not be
                    avoided, but it was held under the auspices of the local Hayes and Wheeler Club.138 Party regularity and harmony again triumphed.
            
               
                  133 Quoted in 
                            Logansport
                        
                        Daily Journal, July 17, 1876.
               
                  134
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, July 14, 1876.
               
                  135 Benjamin Bristow to Pratt, July 16, 1876, Pratt MSS.
               
                  136 Carl Schurz to Hayes, January 30, 1877, in Frederic Bancroft (ed.),
                            Speeches, Correspondence and Political Papers of Carl Schurz (6 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1913), III, 380.
               
                  137 John Coburn to Pratt, July 19, 1876; T. H. Bringhurst to Pratt, July
                        27, 1876, Pratt MSS.
               
                  138 J. T. Bryer to Pratt, July 24, 1876, Pratt MSS.
            
            
            An unforeseen change in the state Republican ticket in 1876 further embarrassed Pratt. Even before
                    his resignation there had been considerable sentiment for nominating him for governor on the
                    Republican ticket in 1876, and it was necessary for him to publish a written statement denying that
                    he was a candidate. He stated that he could not be more "usefully employed" as
                    governor than as commissioner; furthermore, the condition of his health did not permit an intensive
                        canvass.139 When in the summer of 1876 Godlove S. Orth, who headed the state
                    ticket, withdrew from the race, there was a revival of sentiment to place Pratt in that vacancy. One
                    admirer wrote that "you and Bristow are synonymous for reform and honesty."140 But Pratt lent no encouragement to these proposals, and it is doubtful if he
                    had much organization support. The state committee, whose choice it was, passed him over in favor of
                    Benjamin Harrison.141
            
            Pratt was still expected, however, to take the stump for the ticket. Campaigners were needed. The
                    lengthy session of Congress had prevented its members from coming home as early as was required for
                    the canvass. The state chairman urged Pratt to speak in order to help take care of numerous
                    requests, as well as to demonstrate that no appearance of dissension within the party might be
                    inferred from his absence.142 Although weary and disheartened, Pratt entered the
                    lists once more to campaign for Hayes and Wheeler. His engagements that year were nearly as numerous
                    as in 1872.143 After the campaign was over, but while the presidential winner
                    was still in doubt, Pratt was quoted in the Washington, 
                  
                     139
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Gazette, December 17, 24, 1875; 
                                
                                    Hamilton
                                
                             [College] Literary Monthly, February, 1876, 229. Pratt's
                            letter in which he declined to be a candidate was written to the editor of the 
                                Greencastle
                            , Indiana, Banner.
                  
                  
                     140 G. I. Reed to Pratt, July 31, 1876; Homer L. Yaryan to Pratt,
                            August 3, 1876; T. S. Rollins to Pratt, August 3, 1876; telegram from John F. Kibby to
                            Pratt, August 3, 1876; George H. Dunn to Pratt, August 4, 1876; D. S. Chapman to Pratt,
                            August 4, 1876, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     141
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, August 7, 1876. For a detailed account of Orth's
                            resignation and the choice of Harrison, see Harry J. Sievers, Benjamin
                            Harrison (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1952- ∗∗∗), II, 93–107.
                  
                     142 George W. Friedley to Pratt, August 9, 1876, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     143 George W. Friedley to Pratt, September 21, 25, 1876, Pratt MSS; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, September 9, 1876.
               
                     D.C., Herald as having said that Tilden had
                    legally won the presidential election.144 He indignantly wrote to his friends in 
                        Washington
                     that a denial be published.145 Bristow wrote to him that he hoped
                    Hayes would recall Pratt to the public service; and perhaps Bristow also expressed his own
                    disappointment by stating that President-elect Hayes had not treated well those who had been so
                    shabbily treated by Grant.146
            
            By the spring of 1877, Pratt was a very sick man. He was able to write two articles for the 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Weekly Star and was dictating another when he died. His death, which occurred on
                    June 17, 1877, was caused by heart disease.147 His senatorial colleague, Morton,
                    died on November 1, 1877—less than six months later.148
            
            It is a commentary on the political life of the time as well as on Pratt that honesty was always
                    mentioned in connection with Pratt's name and record. His nephew, Daniel P. Baldwin,
                    claimed that Pratt never accepted a railroad pass during his term in the Senate.149 Turpie commented that he "was a man of uncommon honesty, of the purest probity in
                    all his dealings."150 While he was commissioner of internal revenue a
                    Western Associated Press telegram sent out the story that Pratt had received a handsome, gold-headed
                    cane from his subordinates in the revenue service. He immediately returned it with thanks and with a
                    reference to "the provision of the law which attaches a penalty of dismissal from office to
                    all engaged in the interchange of courtesies of this character."151 One
                    of the most frequent stories coupled with his name was the statement that Wendell Phillips had
                    remarked that "Pratt was the most absolutely honest man" he ever knew. It is a
                    story that is repeated in many of the 
                  
                     144 S. B. Benson to Pratt, January 14, 1877; J. C. Smith to Pratt,
                            January 15, 1877, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     145 J. C. Smith to Pratt, January 22, 1877, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     146 Benjamin Bristow to Pratt, January 8, 1877, Pratt MSS.
                  
                     147
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, June 18, 1877.
                  
                     148 Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton, II, 501.
                  
                     149 [Baldwin], "Daniel D. Pratt," History of the Republican Party in Indiana, ed. Seeds, 287.
                  
                     150 Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times, 216.
                  
                     151
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, February 12, 1876.
               
                     histories that include a sketch of him.152
                    Although the story may be apocryphal, it is one indication of his fine reputation.
            Pratt's political life is an illustration of the great importance placed on party regularity
                    by many politicians of that day. At times, Pratt must have been perplexed and disillusioned. He
                    spoke out against corruption in the civil service, and when he later took his place in the civil
                    service, there is ample testimony that he performed his duties in a superior way. He was sound,
                    trustworthy, and honest. His resignation from the Senate and his reconsideration of it, however, was
                    remembered. In permitting it to be known that he had no taste for political life and that he entered
                    politics too late in life to be useful to any degree, he planted the seed of suspicion that he was
                    timid and unprepared and could not be relied upon in the bitter partisan contests waged in those
                        days.153 In his own way, he tried to seek reform of his party from within,
                    but he never could bring himself to the position of bolting his party. As commissioner he received
                    very shabby treatment from President Grant. He drew up his will a few months before he resigned as
                    commissioner. Its first provision ordered his executor to place on his gravestone the inscription,
                    "He tried to do his duty."154 He made no public statement
                    critical of the President, however. As has been seen, after Pratt's resignation he was
                    willing to work for the success of his party's ticket in the campaign of 1876, even though
                    he was in very poor health. The tie of party loyalty was a binding one with him, as it was with a
                    host of others of that generation.
            Pratt's early public reputation rested chiefly on his attainment in the legal profession.
                    After studying law in 
                        Indianapolis
                     with Calvin Fletcher, he moved to 
                        Logansport
                    
                    
                  
                     152 Thomas Helm (ed.), History of 
                                    Cass County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 1886), I, 552; George I. Reed (ed.), Encyclopaedia of Biography of Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 
                                Ill.
                            , 1895–1899), II, 233; A Biographical History of Eminent
                                and Self-made Men of the State of Indiana (2 vols., 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1880), II, 34; [Baldwin], "Daniel D. Pratt,"
                                History of the Republican Party in Indiana, ed. Seeds, 287.
                  
                     153 Pratt to John H. B. Nowland, October 19, 1869, in John H. B.
                            Nowland, Early Reminiscences of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 with Short Biographical Sketches of its Early Citizens (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1870), 256; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, December 17, 1873, June 19, 1877.
                  
                     154
                            
                                Cass County
                            , Ind., Office of the County Clerk, 
                                Logansport
                            , Record of Wills, Book 3, June, 1877—September, 1888.
               
                     in 1836 to build his practice. His meticulous preparation for
                    the suits in which he was employed as counsel, his skill in appealing to a jury, and the close
                    attention he gave to the interests of his clients enabled him to become a leader of the bar in
                    northern Indiana by the 1850's. Law was his primary interest, for, on several occasions
                    when opportunity in politics presented itself, he did not accept them because his practice would
                    suffer. He withdrew his name when he was suggested as candidate for governor in 1856 because of this
                    conflict of interests; his first decision to resign from the senatorship in 1869 was based partly on
                    the need for returning to his practice. After reconsideration of his resignation, his energies as a
                    senator were chiefly directed toward committee work on claims and pensions—two fields in
                    which his legal experience especially prepared him and for which his services were highly valued.
            In politics desire for office never seemed to be a driving force with Pratt. He was certainly not a
                    professional political operator. Moreover, he lacked aggressiveness and boldness. He served in the
                    house of representatives of the Indiana General Assembly in 1850–1851 and in 1853. This
                    gave him his only experience in a legislative body before his senatorial term. On two occasions he
                    was a candidate for presidential elector—as a Whig in the campaign of 1848 and as a
                    Republican in the campaign of 1856. These positions on the ticket required work on the hustings, but
                    few other duties. They were positions of honor. In two campaigns he was a candidate for
                    Congress—in 1847, as a Whig, in which he lost to his Democratic opponent, Charles W.
                    Cathcart, and as a Republican in 1868, in which he defeated Nathan Ross. But he was elected to the
                    Senate in 1869 before he had an opportunity to serve in the lower house. He was the Republican
                    choice for 
                        United States
                     senator in 1863 and in 1869, which attests his standing and influence in the state. He
                    did not, however, climb the rungs of the political ladder to reach the Senate. His relatively short
                    service as commissioner of internal revenue after his senatorial term attested his administrative
                    abilities. He brought to that position qualities sorely needed at that time—legal
                    training and integrity. But he seems to have accepted this appointment more from a sense of party
                    duty and loyalty than from eagerness for office.
            
            There was a broad humanitarianism in his nature. The breakup of the Whig party and his antislavery
                    views took him into the Republican party, and later he earnestly supported the Fourteenth and
                    Fifteenth amendments and the Supplementary Civil Rights Act. His advocacy of temperance throughout
                    his life, his work to aid the distressed in 
                        Ireland
                     in 1846–1847, and the establishment of a trust fund in 
                        Logansport
                     for the worthy poor—all are evidence of genuine interest in his fellow men.
                    It is the character of Pratt that calls forth admiration—his high level of personal and
                    professional honesty and integrity, his sincere, high-minded seriousness of purpose, and his
                    devotion to duty.
         
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            
                    Hubert H. Hawkins
                    ∗
                
            A fine, history-minded gentleman was in the office not long ago. He is an officer of one of the
                    county historical societies and has been a member of the Indiana Historical Society for nearly two
                    decades. During our conversation, he asked, "How big an appropriation does the Society get
                    from the state legislature now?" The Society does not receive and has never received a
                    legislative appropriation, and we hastened to explain this fact. The belief that it does is just one
                    of several misconceptions that persist about the Society—even among its members. We need
                    to achieve a clearer image of the Society in the public mind as a prerequisite to its further
                    growth. Let's set the record straight:
            
               The Indiana Historical Society is a private, nonprofit corporation. Chartered in 1830, it is
                        one of the oldest corporations in the state.
               The Society has no lineage or residence requirements for membership.
               Membership dues paid to the Society beyond the basic five dollars are tax deductible.
               Membership in a local society, the Society of Indiana Pioneers, or any other organization does
                        not confer or constitute membership in the Indiana Historical Society. There are no joint
                        memberships.
               The Society does not "sell" its publications to its membership as some state
                        societies do. Members are entitled to receive without charge publications issued while a
                        membership is in effect.
               The Society is not an organization of great wealth. It has an endowment of approximately
                        $850,000 that is largely dedicated to the support of the William Henry Smith Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , which belongs to the Society. The 
                            New York
                         Historical Society, for example, reported endowment in excess of
                        $10,850,000 in 1960.
            
            
               
                  ∗ Hubert H. Hawkins is secretary of the Indiana Historical
                        Society and director of the Indiana Historical Bureau.
            
            
            The Indiana Historical Society is a private corporation with public responsibility. Over the years it
                    has built a fine record of public service. The Society took a leading part in securing the creation
                    of the Indiana Historical Bureau (the state historical agency); the establishment of December 11 as
                    Indiana Day; and the preservation of the Lanier mansion at 
                        Madison
                    , the Old State Capitol at 
                        Corydon
                    , the Angel Mounds site at 
                        Newburgh
                    , and the Little Cedar Grove Church near 
                        Brookville
                    .
            The Society maintains an excellent library which is an indispensable source for Hoosier and
                    midwestern history. It has gained a national reputation for its archaeological program. Specialized
                    work is also carried on through standing committees on such subjects as genealogy, covered bridges,
                    historical markers, mills, and transportation. Increasing amounts of materials on Indiana history
                    have been provided for use in the schools of the state.
            The Society's greatest service is in its publishing program by which research is encouraged
                    and a growing body of information is made available. It has issued approximately one hundred
                    publications in more than twenty volumes. Special publications include archaeological and
                    anthropological studies, biography, bibliography, and R. Carlyle Buley's Pulitzer
                    prize-winning history of the Old Northwest. In cooperation with the History Department of Indiana
                    University the Society distributes the quarterly Indiana Magazine of History to
                    its membership.
            This record of constructive achievement and service is the basis for the Society's claim to
                    your interest and support. The Society now has approximately three thousand members; let us make it
                    five thousand by Indiana's sequicentennial in 1966. With your continued help the Indiana
                    Historical Society will continue to grow both in membership and program.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               North of Slavery: The Negro in the Free States, 1790–1860. By Leon F.
                    Litwack. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1961. Pp. xi, 318. Bibliographical essay, index. $6.00.)
            Despite the wealth of literature on the Negro and slavery, the northern Negro has remained almost the
                    forgotten man in historical research. At long last, this subject has been attacked by Leon Litwack
                    in his book, North of Slavery. The author attempts in eight chapters to survey the
                    life of the Negro in the North from his rise to freedom to his condition on the eve of the Civil
                    War. The book begins with a chapter on the extinction of slavery in the North and concludes with a
                    study of the Negro's position during the 1850's. Other chapters deal with the
                    attitude of the federal government toward the free Negro, his economic, social, and political status
                    in the free states, and his efforts to win equality in these areas.
            This book paints a bleak picture of the North as a haven for the Negro. Discrimination followed him
                    from the cradle to the grave. He found it at school, church, courtroom, polls, work, and even at the
                    abolition society. Political disfranchisement, economic discrimination, segregation in education,
                    and social ostracism was the lot of the Negro in the North. Where laws failed to accomplish this
                    end, custom and prejudice produced the same result. Pronouncements from the free states on the
                    capacity of the Negro differed little from proslavery arguments voiced in the South. Color lines
                    divided even the abolition societies. Although willing to improve the economic and political
                    position of the Negro, white abolitionists often refused him social equality. The author also
                    suggests that attention devoted to such men as William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, and
                    Theodore Weld has obscured the importance of the Negro abolitionist.
            
               North of Slavery raises more questions than it answers, and it opens rather than
                    closes the subject of the northern Negro as a field for historical research. Litwack concentrates on
                    the eastern states and slights those of the Midwest, especially Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . His sources and examples are drawn largely from 
                  Massachusetts, New
                    York
               , and Pennsylvania. The value of this volume is also diminished by its
                    reliance on the comments of foreign travelers whose stay was often brief and whose observations were
                    often colored by prejudice. At one point the journal of an English traveler is cited as an authority
                    for the action of a committee of the 
                        Ohio
                     legislature concerning a Negro petition. Census materials are used sparingly, and the
                    work lacks statistical analysis of the numbers and economic condition of Negroes in the North.
            
               North of Slavery, in spite of its limitations, should be of interest to both
                    scholar and layman. It provides for the scholar a needed survey of the life of the Negro in the free
                    states prior to the Civil War. The layman will discover that the Mason-Dixon Line was no color line
                    and find that prejudice has no geographical boundaries.
            Joseph C. Burke, 
                  
                            Ohio
                         Wesleyan University
            
         
         
         
            
               Elijah P. Lovejoy, Abolitionist Editor. By Merton L. Dillon. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1961. Pp. ix, 190. Bibliography, index. $4.75.)
            Relying heavily upon Lovejoy family papers in widely scattered repositories, Professor Dillon, of 
                        Texas
                     Technological College, tells the engrossing story of the tense, humorless New Englander
                    who migrated to the West where he might "fulfill his responsibility to a needful
                    world" (p. 7). In the neo-Freudian terminology of David Riesman, Elijah Lovejoy was an
                    "inner-directed" personality, one who sought to impose his own stern views and
                    manners upon his neighbors. Settling in 
                        St. Louis
                    , he spent a brief interlude as master of a private school and then became editor of a
                    newspaper fostering "Christian politics, the diffusion of religious intelligence, and the
                    salvation of souls" (p. 32). Sponsored by a group of Whiggish businessmen, he pursued an
                    editorial policy which was anti-Jackson, anti-Irish, anti-Catholic, and antisaloon, as well as
                    antislavery. Indeed, his abolitionism developed rather slowly at first. In this well-written
                    account, Professor Dillon effectively documents Lovejoy's lack of prudence. In the rough
                    and tumble of frontier journalism, Lovejoy called Robert Owen "a menace to
                    society" (p. 21) and President Jackson "an adulterer and murderer" (p.
                    18).
            As Lovejoy became more intense in his abolitionism, his high-pitched rhetoric invited mob action.
                    After several violent demonstrations against his press, he deemed it expedient to move operations to 
                        Alton
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , where public attitudes were for a time more congenial. When threatened by a mob in 
                        Alton
                    , he refused to move again, casting himself in the role of tragic hero combating the
                    "mighty legions of evil." His defense of freedom of the press led to a martyrdom
                    which Lovejoy did little to avoid. "No, sir," said he to a group seeking to
                    prevent violence; "there is no way to escape the mob, but to abandon the path of duty: and
                    that, God helping me, I will never do" (p. 156).
            Professor Dillon accepts the drama much as the martyred hero envisioned it. He does not look for
                    hidden motives in the antislavery impulse. He makes little if any effort to examine the political
                    and economic motivations of those who financed Lovejoy's opposition to slavery. He
                    concludes that "moral suasion simply did not work, either in the North or South"
                    (p. 179). Because this dour New Englander failed with his uncompromising verbal assaults, persuasion
                    is thus dismissed a futile: "slavery was not to be ended through religious
                    revival" (p. 179). Such a conclusion raises questions which deserve further exploration:
                    How did the British manage to end Negro slavery in the Empire without a series of bloody conflicts?
                    Can social and economic change come, as Professor Dillon implies, only through use of force?
            Ironically enough, first blood at 
                        Alton
                     was drawn by antislavery forces. First to die was a member of the mob, an unheralded
                    young carpenter named Lyman Bishop, victim of the uncivilized doctrine that "direct action
                    must supplant moral suasion" (p. 179).
            Robert G. Gunderson, Indiana University
            
         
         
         
            
               The Papers of Henry Clay. Volume 2, The Rising Statesman,
                        1815–1820. James F. Hopkins, editor; Mary W. M. Hargreaves, associate editor. (
                        Lexington
                    : University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, 1961. Pp. viii, 939. Index. $15.00.)
            The half-dozen years following the War of 1812 were significant years in the life of Henry Clay as
                    they were for the adolescent 
                        United States
                    . They extended from the beginning of 1815, when Clay was in 
                        Ghent
                    , 
                        Belgium
                    , completing his work as one of the commissioners who had negotiated peace between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        England
                    , until the end of 1820, when Clay was perturbed because of sectionalism and animosity
                    aroused by the agitation concerning 
                        Missouri
                    's admission to the Union. This volume offers convincing evidence that Clay was
                    one of the most important political leaders of his country, 1815–1820. Serving as speaker
                    of the House of Representatives during nearly all of this period, Clay exercised much influence on
                    congressional legislation, he had much impact on decisions made by Presidents 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Monroe
                     and their associates, and he added much to the importance and stature of the office of
                    speaker.
            Although Clay represented 
                        Kentucky
                    , the oldest of the trans Appalachian states, in Congress and was himself largely a
                    product of the West, his nationalism greatly exceeded his sectionalism. Moreover, in politics he
                    identified himself more firmly with "principles" and "measures"
                    than with "men" and "personalities." Throughout the years
                    covered by this volume, Clay was a vigorous advocate of federal aid for internal improvements and of
                    protection for manufacturing industries. He at times criticized the second 
                        United States
                     Bank even though he generally supported it. Such criticism seems to have been prompted
                    in part by the substantial and continued hostility of westerners to this bank. Clay's
                    efforts to hasten American recognition of emerging nations in Latin America and his view that the 
                        Texas
                     area was of immediate importance to the 
                        United States
                     resulted in his showing some criticism of President Monroe and his associates, notably
                    John Quincy Adams.
            But Clay's attention was not entirely absorbed by weighty matters of politics. As a
                    congressman he performed errands for constitutents, sought jobs for acquaintances, investigated
                    pension claims, wrote letters of introduction, and attended to related tasks. Clay retained an
                    active interest in his real estate and farming ventures. His remedy for hard times, offered as a
                    toast during the depression in 1819, perhaps appealed to his constituents: "Increased
                    production—diminished expenditures" (p. 697).
            This volume appears to be edited with meticulous care by Editors Hopkins and Hargreaves. Their
                    explanatory notes are helpful without being obtrusive. They might, however, have enhanced the
                    usefulness of the volume by having included an introduction and perhaps either a calendar or table
                    of contents. Since the index is limited to personal names, scholars will especially welcome the
                    general index to come following completion of the series. The projected ten volumes of The Papers of Henry Clay are an extremely important project. The Lilly  Endowment, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , as well as the University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press and the Department of History of the University of 
                        Kentucky
                     are placing scholars in their debt because of this significant venture.
            Donald F. Carmony, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               The Letters of Stephen A. Douglas. Edited by Robert W. Johannsen. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1961. Pp. xxxi, 558. Illustrations, appendices, index. $10.00.)
            For half a century it was generally thought that the letters and papers of Stephen A. Douglas were so
                    scattered as to be unavailable. In the early 1930's, however, George Fort Milton located
                    many of them in preparation for his Eve of Conflict. Despite the earlier
                    impression, Allen Johnson in 1908 published a scholarly and judicious biography of Douglas which
                    must be rated highly even by present standards. The bulk of the papers discovered by Milton was
                    later acquired by the University of 
                        Chicago
                     Library. The drawback of this collection is that it consists only of letters to the
                    Senator, most of them written in the last four years of his life.
            After years of searching in various places, Professor Johannsen has now located and edited a much
                    fuller collection of letters from Douglas, covering the period from 1833, shortly
                    after his arrival in 
                        Illinois
                    , down to the eve of his death in the spring of 1861. The historical profession is
                    indebted to Johannsen for his truly prodigious effort and his skill in editing the correspondence of
                    one of the key figures of the secession decade. The main depositories of the letters are the 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library, at 
                        Springfield
                    , the 
                        Chicago
                     Historical Society, the National Archives, and the Library of Congress. Some of the
                    most personal are in the possession of the Little Giant's grandson, Martin F. Douglas, who
                    cooperated with and encouraged the editor throughout the project. Because of space limitations the
                    speeches and public papers of Douglas are not included. These, however, are more readily accessible
                    to the diligent scholar than are the letters, and they of course are equally pertinent to an
                    appreciation of Douglas' character and influence.
            Only letters written by Douglas, arranged in chronological sequence but preceded by a calendar, are
                    included. Letters to which there are allusions elsewhere but the orginal manuscripts of which have
                    not been found have been noted and summarized where possible. These notations are placed in brackets
                    in their proper chronological order. Routine letters of no historical significance have been
                    omitted. The original spelling of the text has been retained, but paragraphing and punctuation have
                    been added by the editor for the sake of clarity. Missing words and letters in the original have
                    been inserted in brackets. Documentation is restricted to identification of persons and explanation
                    of events and situations necessary to an understanding of the text. Identification of addresses and
                    dates of the letters are included.
            Professor Johannsen is presently engaged in writing a full-length biography of Douglas. With Harry F.
                    Jaffa he has previously edited  the speeches and writings of
                    Lincoln and Douglas during the 
                        Ohio
                     campaign of 1859, entitled In the Name of the People (1959). In view
                    of this spadework in the sources, we may expect from his pen a more comprehensive study of the
                    famous Senator from 
                        Illinois
                     than any that has yet appeared. Meanwhile, all students of the politics "of
                    the middle decades of the nineteenth century will find this painstaking edition not only highly
                    useful but indispensable.
            Gerald M. Capers, Tulane University
            
         
         
            
               The Life of Jonathan Baldwin Turner. Reprint. By Mary Turner Carriel. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1961. Pp. xviii, 267. Illustrations, appendix. $5.50.)
            It is appropriate in the centennial year of the Land Grant Act of 1862 that the University of 
                        Illinois
                     should select as one of its projects the reprinting of The Life of
                        Jonathan Baldwin Turner, by Mary Turner Carriel. The biography was published privately in
                    1911 and has been out of print for a number of years. As source material concerning the man who more
                    than anyone else was responsible for the Land Grant Act of 1862, the reprinting represents a genuine
                    service to higher education and to all institutions and agencies interested in observance of the
                    land grant centennial.
            Jonathan Baldwin Turner was an unorthodox person. The story of his life as told by his daughter shows
                    the strength of the man as a great, early citizen of the state of 
                        Illinois
                     intensely interested in education, agriculture, religion, politics, and public welfare.
                    He was a nonconformist; he had strong convictions in every field to which he devoted himself, but
                    his ideas were often unusual, and at times actually unwelcome.
            An analysis of the content of the volume shows that Mrs. Carriel has used her father's
                    letters and papers where they will add emphasis, interest, or authority. The relatively brief
                    section devoted to Mr. Turner's early life, his days at 
                        Yale
                    , his acceptance of the call to 
                        Illinois
                     College at 
                        Jacksonville
                     in "the west," his marriage, his experience at 
                        Illinois
                     College, and his difficulties as a pioneer teacher is adequate to give the reader
                    excellent insight into the character of the man, into what sort of person he was.
            The core of the work lies in the well outlined and documented record of the part Turner had in the
                    proposal for "a state University for the Industrial Classes," how he developed
                    this idea, sponsored it, expanded it to national scope, then literally gave his life to it for
                    approximately fifteen years. Certainly no man did more in the development of the plan on the
                    national level, once he had established it well in the state of 
                        Illinois
                    .
            The remainder of the book is devoted to other interests of Mr. Turner, his active participation in
                    the slavery question, his promotion of the Osage orange among farmers of the Midwest, his active
                    participation in church and religious affairs, his advocacy of better care for the mentally retarded
                    and insane, his attacks on corporation abuses, his  active life
                    as an author and lecturer. Numerous anecdotes relating experiences with Lincoln and other prominent
                    persons of Turner's day are also included.
            The book is valuable as a source of firsthand information about the man who has been termed
                    "the Father of the Land Grant Act"; it is also good reading about one of the most
                    interesting personalities of the Midwest in the nineteenth century. It must be conceded that Mrs.
                    Carriel has written with the prejudice derived from affection, and some persons have questioned the
                    authenticity of some of her statements. Curiously enough, those who have raised questions have been
                    forced to admit at the same time that there is inadequate evidence to prove the statements to be in
                    error.
            The reprinted volume with an excellent Introduction by Dr. David Dodds Henry, of the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , constitutes a genuine contribution to the nationwide celebration of the centennial of
                    the Land Grant Act of 1862.
            Fred H. Turner, University of 
                            Illinois
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Chicago
                         and the Labor Movement: Metropolitan Unionism in the 1930's. By
                    Barbara Warne Newell. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1961. Pp. viii, 288. Tables, bibliography, index. $6.00.)
            This book is not, and does not pretend to be, a complete history of the 
                        Chicago
                     labor movement in the 1930's. The author frankly admits that the railroad
                    brotherhoods, for example, have purposely been omitted, and 
                        Milton
                     Webster of the Sleeping Car Porters does not appear. These exclusions result from the
                    author's theory that there is a predictable pattern of development in metropolitan
                    unionism. It is Mrs. Newell's contention that the first unions to organize are the skilled
                    groups, that from these develop a core of unions catering to a local market, that three of these
                    groups—the teamsters, building service, and building trade unions—represent
                    the heart of urban unionism and in turn aid workers in adjacent industries. This process is
                    mitigated in particular urban centers by the "mould" of the city. 
                        Chicago
                    's peculiar "mould" has been formed principally by the
                    influence of the city's ethnic pattern, the social worker, the stand of the Catholic
                    church, the local political system, and the historical heritage of the trade union movement in 
                        Chicago
                    . These factors all played their parts when the CIO came to 
                        Chicago
                     in the 1930's. Thus "it was not under the aegis of the central body
                    that the industrial unions were finally to be organized, but rather through the assistance of the
                    established nationally oriented unions, which had themselves received major aid from the urban
                    unions" (p. 225). This theory, the author asserts, evolved during the course of the study.
                    Actually, however, much of the information from which her theory is constructed was gathered from
                    the years preceding 1930. Her coverage of these years is sketchy and conventional. It is perhaps
                    unfortunate, from the historian's point of view, that she did not give more space to
                    generalizing about developments in the thirties.
            
            Beyond the theory, however, there is much in the volume of interest to the historian. In her
                    "diary of a metropolitan labor movement" Mrs. Newell discusses the surprising
                    influence of Martin Dies and his committee on CIO attempts to organize the meat-packing industry and
                    Mayor Kelly's reaction to the 1937 Memorial Day incident. Of equal interest is the analysis
                    of the influence of F.D.R., the NRA, and the NLRB on the 
                        Chicago
                     labor movement. In this connection, Mrs. Newell suggests that the New Deal may have
                    affected metropolitan unionism in about the same fashion as it did the metropolitan political boss.
                    Other valuable sections of the book are those dealing with "gangster unions," the
                    teamsters, steel, and AFL-CIO relations. Other unions, ranging from the corsetmakers to the
                    "cow-punchers" of Union Stock Yards are covered in illuminating sketches.
            Mrs. Newell has utilized a wide variety of sources, including interviews. Her style, while not
                    felicitous, does meet the minimum requirements. Documentation is adequate, but there are lapses,
                    especially when she deals with anti-union forces and attitudes. The full history of the 
                        Chicago
                     labor movement in the 1930's remains to be written, but Mrs. Newell has done
                    much of the spadework, raised some pertinent questions, and offered some thought-provoking answers.
            Zane L. Miller, University of 
                            Chicago
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Roosevelt's Farmer: Claude R. Wickard in the New Deal. By Dean
                    Albertson. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1961. Pp. ix, 424. Illustrations, index. $6.00.)
            This book has an intriguing title. It is almost using the euphuistic approach of President Franklin
                    D. Roosevelt (p. 214) to call Claude Wickard a farmer. Wickard's father was an authentic
                    farmer in 
                        Carroll County
                    , Indiana. But Claude went to high school in town, graduated from Purdue University, and
                    began to farm only with the special inducement of his father who "scratched his chin and
                    shook his head, but … held to his bargain that Claude should run the farm as he saw
                    fit" (p. 31). Under these terms Wickard farmed from 1915 to 1933, although he continued to
                    own and manage a farm where he wore overalls from time to time. His family had no strong attachment
                    to the farm. To be sure he was honored with the Master Farmer award in 1928, but this was cherished
                    mainly because it established him as a success in the eyes of his family. Although Wickard had the
                    psychology of a farmer in desiring to be his own boss, physically he suffered from fatigue.
                    Moreover, there was a strong desire for both the things purchased by the higher income in other
                    occupations and for recognized success.
            It is even clearer from the evidence that Wickard was a man of unquestioned integrity. He was elected
                    to the Indiana Senate in 1932, and after serving one session in which he showed preference for
                    soundness of principle to support by the political machine, Wickard received an appointment in the
                    Department of Agriculture. Valuable to the Democratic administration because of his reputation as an
                         Indiana farmer who was a Democrat, his thinking attracted
                    the attention of those trying to create a workable farm policy. Thus he worked under Secretary of
                    Agriculture Henry A. Wallace in the program to promote conservation, reduce the surplus, and
                    increase the income of farmers. When Wallace resigned in 1940, his choice for the next secretary of
                    agriculture was Wickard. Roosevelt agreed. Thereupon Wickard became secretary of agriculture and
                    continued in the position as long as Roosevelt lived.
            Roosevelt appreciated a secretary of agriculture who had the reputation of being a successful farmer,
                    continued the policies of Wallace, and could speak and write for the party. They agreed upon
                    planning and full production during the war years. Roosevelt insisted, however, upon cheap food to
                    get the labor vote and farm subsidies to get the farm vote. This policy was remote from
                    Wickard's vision of farmers who were the intellectual, social, and economic equals of other
                    businessmen. Roosevelt, in the fond belief that Chester Davis could satisfy the labor-minded
                    President in the matter of food administration, deprived Wickard of such important work that
                    resignation was narrowly avoided. It is significant that Albertson closes the story with Wickard
                    rejoicing in a clear conscience. There was no rejoicing because of victory for his vision. A
                    statement in the Preface reveals Wickard's final political defeat when in 1956 he was
                    unsuccessful in an attempt to unseat Republican Homer Capehart from the 
                        United States
                     Senate.
            Darwin N. Kelley, Central High School, 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Indiana
            
         
         
            
               Conscience in Politics: Adlai E. Stevenson in the 1950's. Stuart Gerry
                    Brown. Men and Movements Series. (
                        Syracuse
                    , 
                        N.Y.
                    : 
                        Syracuse
                     University Press, 1961. Pp. xi, 313. Illustrations, note on sources, index.
                    $4.50.)
            Professor Brown, Maxwell Professor of American Civilization at 
                        Syracuse
                     University, has in this book already put political history of the 1950's in
                    historical perspective. His thesis—that Adlai E. Stevenson as leader of the party out of
                    executive power exerted a more positive influence on some aspects of American opinion and policy
                    than the administration in power—is ably presented. Certainly one must go back to Clay,
                    Blaine, or Bryan to find a leader of a party out of power who exercised as great an influence as
                    Stevenson; and his impact on opinion from day to day was probably greater than any of these, if for
                    no other reason than that the president he opposed had abdicated a postive leadership.
            During the campaign of 1952 and thereafter, while Eisenhower wavered on McCarthyism, Stevenson lashed
                    out at the Great Accuser and his Inquisition, against those who would "strike freedom of
                    the mind with the fist of patriotism" (p. 43), against those "political
                    plungers" who have persuaded the President "that McCarthyism is the best
                    Republican formula for political success" (p. 63). Unquestionably Stevenson, more than any
                    other, gave courageous and eloquent expression  to the best
                    traditions of our free and open society during one of America's ugliest hours.
            While Eisenhower refused to give the desegregation decisions the personal support of his prestige and
                    popularity or the moral force of his high office, Stevenson hailed these decisions as
                    "correct interpretations of the Constitution and the conscience of the nation" (p.
                    95). At the same time he exposed "state interposition" for the fraud that it is.
                    Stevenson's attitude was moderate, however. He emphasized that progress in the South would
                    have to be gradual, opposed cutting off federal funds for segregated schools, and urged a White
                    House conference of southern leaders to mobilize opinion in that section for gradual and orderly
                    implementing of court decisions. Stevenson's position was both moral and practical. It held
                    his party together on this most delicate of issues, and had his proposals been adopted we probably
                    would have been spared the disgrace of 
                        Little Rock
                    .
            In foreign policy, Stevenson's influence was both immediate and far-reaching. When in 1955
                    Eisenhower's image as peacemaker was in jeopardy, it was saved by Sevenson's brave
                    insistence that Quemoy and Matsu were not necessary to the defense of Formosa. Before the Suez
                    crisis of 1956, Stevenson had advocated United Nations armed patrols of the boundaries of 
                        Israel
                     and her Arab neighbors, and this plan was adopted after that crisis. During the
                    campaign of 1956, Stevenson urged the importance of a compact and skilled military man power as
                    opposed to the massive one obtained through the draft, and the President's Cordiner
                    Committee confirmed the wisdom of this proposal in its 1957 report. Also, amidst furious opposition,
                    Stevenson proposed stopping the testing of H-bombs, and this proposal was adopted by Eisenhower in
                    1959.
            Among the larger ideas first popularized by Stevenson and now in general currency are: the primary
                    importance of international arms-control agreements; that beginnings toward arms-control agreements
                    cannot be made until there is rapprochement between the 
                        United States
                     and the 
                        Soviet Union
                    , and that this can come only by a "sensible progression"; the
                    necessity of including Red 
                        China
                     in any arms-control agreements; the relevance for world politics of America's
                    "recovery of internal momentum," a sustained rate of economic growth of perhaps 5
                    per cent a year; a major shift of emphasis away from foreign economic aid for military support and
                    toward economic aid for its own sake; the grave importance of remedying the long neglect of Latin
                    America in economic aid programs.
            Professor Brown emphasizes that it is one thing to win elections, another thing to give effective
                    leadership in government. Eisenhower was so often ineffective because he stood above the battle, his
                    popularity born of detachment from vital issues, his statements so platitudinous that they meant
                    anything his hearers wanted them to mean. On the other hand, Stevenson, out of power, was so often
                    effective because of his sense of involvement and his very partisanship.
            There runs through Stevenson's career a strong conviction that morality and idealism in
                    politics and disinterested citizens of dedication and selflessness in public affairs are vital in
                    any period, but indispensable  today, because of
                    America's need to recpature a sense of purpose in a world (to use the words of A. Powell
                    Davies) "too dangerous for anything but the truth, too small for anything but
                    brotherhood" (p. 245) and in an age (to quote Schweitzer) when "man has learned to
                    control elemental forces before he has learned to control himself" (p. 245).
            Like Woodrow Wilson, Stevenson is idealistic, dedicated, and eloquent. But he is a more humble man,
                    and this is usually counted in his favor. It might have been better for his country and the world,
                    however, had Stevenson had less humility and more of Wilson's self-assurance.
            William G. Carleton, University of 
                            Florida
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               The St. Lawrence Waterway: A Study in Politics and Diplomacy. By William R.
                    Willoughby. (
                        Madison
                    : University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 1961. Pp. xiv, 381. Illustrations, map, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $6.00.)
            In the light of present public interest in the St. Lawrence Seaway, it is surprising that in recent
                    years no major historical work has appeared dealing with recent events affecting that waterway. This
                    lack has been remedied in part with the appearance of William R. Willoughby's book. It is
                    not a comprehensive study of the region. Rather, it is concerned with the "plans and
                    proposals that have been brought forward from time to time … for improving the lakes and
                    rivers for navigational purposes" (p. viii). The author pays special attention to the
                    activities of the two national governments involved, although he also discusses how individuals,
                    sectional differences, private pressure groups, and party politics in both 
                        Canada
                     and the 
                        United States
                     hindered or promoted the development of the waterway. Professor Willoughby adopts a
                    chronological approach, beginning with the colonial period of both countries and closing his
                    narrative in 1959. The emphasis, however, is on the twentieth century. Events since 1930, when the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                     attempted to negotiate the first comprehensive agreement concerning the waterway,
                    occupy about half the pages.
            One of the most interesting results emerging from this study is the record of solid achievements in
                    developing the waterway before 
                        Canada
                     and the 
                        United States
                     embarked upon their joint program in the mid-1950's. The long series of
                    defeats suffered by seaway proponents over a period of nearly thirty years has tended to obscure the
                    advances made prior to 1954. These advances occurred through a piecemeal program of development
                    undertaken by local and regional interests on both sides of the international boundary. The author
                    provides a full explanation and even a reasoned defense of this piecemeal program.
            The book also answers effectively why, when the economic advantages of regional development seemed so
                    clear, it took so long for the two countries to agree to cooperate. The author advances a number of
                    explanations; perhaps most prominent as a barrier were man-made political boundaries cutting through
                    the region and creating on both sides nationalistic feelings of jealousy and mistrust.
            
            The work is not without weaknesses. Willoughby's use of a strict chronological framework
                    sometimes inhibits smooth flow of the narrative. As the story increases in complexity, the reader
                    sometimes wanders through a seeming maze of conflicting opinions and activities as the author seeks
                    to present all sides of the problem. Repetitious passages also occur when the material is so
                    organized. An excellent analytical chapter at the close of the book, however, tends to draw together
                    many loose strands and brings into focus clearly the central findings of the study.
            The writer's chief sources are newspapers and documents in government archives of 
                        Canada
                     and the 
                        United States
                    . This fact, too, places limitations upon the study, particularly when one searches for
                    the motivations of individuals and nongovernmental groups involved in the controversies over the
                    basin. For example, the reader never learns fully what private interests backed the Great Lakes-St.
                    Lawrence Association, an important lobby group favoring the seaway, nor the reasons for the support
                    of these interests; there is no adequate explanation of the actions of Tom Connally, of 
                        Texas
                    , who as chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee was a powerful opponent of
                    the seaway in the late 1940's; the votes of specific congressmen on important legislation
                    are sometimes listed without sufficient attention being paid to the reasons for these votes.
            These criticisms should not, however, obscure the general soundness of Professor
                    Willoughby's work. Basing his study on thorough research, the author is balanced and
                    temperate in his conclusions and has made an important contribution to the history of both the St.
                    Lawrence River Basin and Canadian-American relations in the twentieth century.
            James Findlay, DePauw University
            
         
         
            
               Indians of North America. By Harold E. Driver. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1961. Pp. xviii, 667. Illustrations, figures, maps, bibliography, index.
                    $10.95.)
            
               Perspectives in American Indian Culture Change. Edited by Edward H. Spicer. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1961. Pp. x, 549. Maps, figure, tables, references, index. $10.00.)
            Harold Driver's book "is designed for use as a text in anthropology courses, as a
                    general introduction for everyone interested in Indians, and as a work of reference for scholars in
                    other fields of thought" (p. v). His intention is to survey the native cultures as they
                    were before they were seriously disturbed by whites. Driver organizes his chapters by subjects, such
                    as horticulture, clothing, music, education. Each subject is then approached in terms of seventeen
                    culture areas, for example: Meso-America, Northwest, Coast, and Plains. However, for any one
                    subject, the number of culture areas cited might not exceed ten or eleven. The obvious explanation
                    for this fact and repeated references to some tribes such as the Kwakitul is the distribution of
                    monographic literature on North American Indians. Some have  been
                    examined sufficiently to provide varying interpretations of their culture, others have been
                    relatively neglected.
            In attempting to evaluate Indian cultures before they had been seriously affected by the intruders,
                    Driver has set himself an extremely difficult task. The first recorded impressions of Indians in
                    eastern North America date from the seventeenth century. But there is ample evidence, as in
                    Squanto's welcome in English to the Pilgrims, that for at least the preceding century
                    whites had been in contact with the aborigines.
            Driver's treatment of the Plains Indians also reflects the same problem. His references to
                    these tribes is almost exclusively to them after their adoption of the horse and the resultant
                    revolution in their culture. Curiously, Driver departs so far in one instance from his announced
                    objectives as to treat at length a study of a contemporary Indian society, the Tepoztecan in 
                        Mexico
                    .
            If in adopting the topical rather than the more frequently employed culture area approach Driver
                    complicated his task, he has nevertheless succeeded surprisingly well. The wealth of information
                    usually available only in obscure monographs and the direct, clear style in which it is presented
                    make the book more than adequate as a text, as general reading for the layman interested in the
                    Indians of North America, and as a reference work for the historian, sociologist, or political
                    scientist. The profusion of illustrations and maps add to the book's effectiveness.
            In contrast, Perspectives in American Indian Culture Change is primarily a book for
                    scholars. Six experts have undertaken to examine cultures with which they are familiar, the Yaqui,
                    Rio Grande Pueblo, Mandan, Wasco-Wishram, and Kwakitul. The object of the study was to try to
                    determine if there were any similarities in the reaction of the Indians to contact experiences.
            In a summary chapter, Edward H. Spicer, who also did the study of the Rio Grande Pueblo, draws
                    certain conclusions from a seminar attended by the six authors. The contact situations were first of
                    all categorized as directed or nondirected, with the term "directed" being
                    reserved for those instances where the dominant society desired to bring about changes in the Indian
                    culture and employed sanctions to accomplish this. Five contact communities were then identified:
                    Spanish mission, fur trade, 
                        United States
                     reservation, Canadian reservation, and urban segment. Although differences existed as
                    between Jesuit and Franciscan missions, the mission and reservation communities usually constituted
                    directed situations, the fur trade and urban segment communities being nondirected.
            An attempt also was made to classify the Indian communities in terms of their reaction to the culture
                    contact. Five processes were identified here, incorporative, assimilative, fusional integration,
                    compartmentalization, and biculturalization. The Navaho offered the best example of the first by
                    incorporating new techniques such as sheep-herding while retaining their distinctive culture. In
                    contrast the Kwakitul assimilated new forms of fishing and in the process their culture underwent
                    drastic changes. Fusional integration implies "combination of forms from the dominant
                    society with meanings from the  subordinate," (p. 533),
                    and is exemplified by the Shaker religious cult among the Wasco-Wishram. Compartmentalization is a
                    "keeping-separate within a realm of meaning of elements and patterns taken over from the
                    dominant culture" (p. 533), as represented by Pueblo success in maintaining the native
                    character of their ceremonialism. Finally, the Wasco-Wishram illustrate biculturalism in their
                    tendency to employ Indian concepts in Indian situations and white behavior patterns in white
                    situations.
            Both books amply confirm the bewildering diversity of Indian types both in aboriginal and
                    twentieth-century America. It is a confirmation such as to discourage any but the uninformed from
                    casual generalizations about the American Indian.
            William T. Hagan, 
                  
                            North Texas
                         State University
            
         
         
            
               The United Colonies of 
                            New England
                        —1643–90. By Harry M. Ward. (
                        New York
                    : Vantage Press, 1961. Pp. 434. Endpaper maps, illustrations, notes, appendices,
                    bibliography, index. $4.50.)
            If this book were half as long, it would be twice as good and might then earn a place on the list of
                    recommended readings for courses in American colonial history. Unfortunately, it is one of those far
                    too numerous historical works in which excellent research and an exploitable theme are nearly ruined
                    by monotonous repetition (even of the same quotation on pages 271, 273) and by bad writing.
            Professor Ward justifies his lengthy treatment by insisting that the history of the 
                        New England
                     Confederation, or the United Colonies of 
                        New England
                    , is a sadly neglected aspect of our constitutional and national development.
                    "Neglected" is not, perhaps, the right word, since every textbook devotes at least
                    a paragraph to the subject, but Ward really means that the Confederation has not been adequately
                    studied, and this he demonstrates convincingly. His own thorough examination of manuscript as well
                    as printed sources reveals many things usually overlooked. The textbooks, for example, almost
                    invariably assert that Massachusetts Bay killed the 
                        New England
                     Confederation in 1653 by nullifying its decision to fight the Dutch, yet Ward devotes
                    four full chapters to the twenty-one sessions of the commissioners which occurred after that date,
                    and which dealt with problems that ranged from "Praying Indians" to preying
                    Indians. Ward's research even led to the discovery of virtually new material. Nearly all
                    historians of seventeenth-century America—even 
                        Osgood
                    —declare flatly that the ghost of the Confederation was finally laid in 1684
                    when 
                        Massachusetts
                     lost her charter and Edmund Andros subsequently enforced a different kind of union in
                    the Dominion of 
                        New England
                    . Ward, however, has found clear proof, both in printed and in manuscript sources, that
                    two sessions of commissioners from 
                  Massachusetts,
                            Connecticut
               , and 
                        Plymouth
                     were held in 1689 after the overthrow of Andros. What finally extinguished the last
                    impulse toward colonial self-union was the creation of the royal colony of 
                        Massachusetts
                     in 1691, which not only involved the annexation of one confederate (
                        Plymouth
                    ) by another (
                        Massachusetts
                    ),  but substituted an externally imposed unity under
                    a royal military viceroy for the voluntary kind which had served well for sixty-five years.
            Professor Ward's book is also valuable for the light it throws on Indian fighting, on
                    diplomatic negotiations with the Dutch and French colonies (New Amsterdam authorities took the 
                        New England
                     Confederation more seriously than did the English government), on missionary activity
                    among the Indians, on the long quarrel between the 
                        Puritan
                     colonies and 
                        Rhode Island
                    , on the extinction by fiat of 
                        New Haven
                     and 
                        Plymouth
                    , and on the mechanism of union devised by the Yankee constitutionalists. On the other
                    hand, there are serious oversights and glaring deficiencies. There is very inadequate consideration
                    of the extent to which colonial union was an instinctive response to the troubled conditions in
                    early seventeenth-century 
                        England
                     and the extent to which the withering of interest in confederation reflected stability
                    and prosperity in the mother country under the later Stuarts. A considerable part of one chapter is
                    devoted to a purely speculative essay on the possibility that the United Colonies had a striped flag
                    which became the forerunner of our present national ensign. The sole evidence for this fantasy is a
                    dim, contemporary painting of New Amsterdam harbor in 1647 (reproduced in the text) showing a ship
                    flying a four-striped banner. Even if this were proof, one might well be skeptical about its
                    significance. Professor Ward ends this seven-page diversion, believe it or not, with a parody on
                    Francis Scott Key in which the pine tree and the cross wave over the land of the free in place of
                    the star-spangled banner. Just what the connection may be is pretty difficult to explain.
            One is also annoyed by Professor Ward's constant effort to endow the 
                        New England
                     Confederation with a weight of historical significance far beyond anything it can
                    possibly bear. Not only does it, in his opinion, provide precedents for the Continental Congress,
                    the Articles of Confederation, and the Constitution, but it anticipated, as well, the federal
                    marshals in American territories, the superintendent of Indian affairs, and the process of
                    nullification. "The Puritans," declares Ward, "left a rich legacy to
                    American federalism, implanting into the colonial consciousness an experience in federal union and
                    an example of the capability of the colonists to shape their own destiny. Fifty years of
                    Confederation left a feeling for union and a longing for independence that was never to
                    die" (p. 382). Perhaps—but it certainly lay dormant for a long time, and when it
                    did revive a century later, no one seemed to remember the United Colonies as much of a precedent.
                    With the possible exception of Benjamin Franklin, the Founding Fathers did not look for lessons of
                    experience in their own history. 
                        Madison
                     studied the constitutions of the Achaean and Aeolian Leagues before he came to 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1787, but if he was influenced by the 
                        New England
                     Confederation, it must have been unconsciously.
            A final word. This book is a literary curiosity, moving without warning from inspired flights of
                    fancy into wastelands of fractured syntax and misbegotten vocabulary. "But what of this
                    union?" the author asks on page 43. "What has God wrought into One from the
                    imperfect clay?" The answer to this eloquent question is a series of sentences such as
                    these—"Concentrating his efforts on the Bay Colony,  the Andros Council proceeded to levy taxes without the consent of an
                    assembly of the people" (p. 333). "During the life of the Confederation, each 
                        Puritan
                     colony dared not take on the sole responsibility of breaking this compact" (p.
                    51). "The United Colonies, under the Articles of 1643, was on the road to survival
                    …" (p. 178). "The Bay was well adept to political maneuvering"
                    (p. 181).
            These samples, to say nothing of numerous typographical blunders, should be sufficient to suggest
                    that before a scholar produces a book he should learn to write, and that before a printer undertakes
                    to publish, he ought to exercise some degree of discrimination in the public interest.
            Lynn W. Turner, Otterbein College
            
         
         
            
               The Memoirs of James II: His Campaigns as Duke of York, 1652–1660.
                    Translated and edited by A. Lytton Sells. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1962. Pp. 301. Illustrations, maps, index.
                    $6.95.)
            The Indiana University Press offers, in joint publication with Chatto & Windus of 
                        London
                    , with full, acute scholarly apparatus, the translation of a unique
                    manuscript—indeed, a gem—from among the treasures of the Lilly Library: the
                    Bouillon manuscript.
            The Bouillon manuscript, discovered in the summer of 1954 by David A. Randall, now librarian of the
                    Lilly Library, Indiana University, consists of 290 folio pages and is a French translation made in 
                        Paris
                     in 1695–1696 under James II's care, supervision, and correction, of
                    the records James kept, as a young man in his twenties, from 1652 to 1660. The manuscript covers the
                    day-to-day action of the campaigns in which he served, originally with the great Turenne, and later
                    with the Prince de Condé; James included also the evolving affairs of his personal life
                    and of his family as leisure and the winter months permitted.
            This French translation was made as a gift to the Cardinal de Bouillon, nephew of Turenne, a man and
                    a memory both James and the Cardinal cherished. Within the same binding as the manuscript and
                    preceding it are two remarkable manuscript documents—the first, the Cardinal's
                    bequest in 1715 of this manuscript to his family, in which he relates the circumstances that brought
                    the manuscript into being; and the other, an attestation made in 1734 by five heads of the Scots
                    College, James's official depository for his private papers, attesting the authenticity of
                    this translation and distinguishing it from the French translation made for James's widow
                    in 1704.
            The worth to scholars of the Bouillon manuscript, now published in English dress under the editorial
                    care of Professor A. Lytton Sells, will not be inconsiderable. The sources for the career of James
                    II have suffered on the one hand from the heightened emotions of those who were deeply concerned,
                    pro and con, in James's wavering fortunes, and on the other from the losses incurred in the
                    French Revolution—difficulties long since cogently canvassed in Sir Winston
                    Churchill's 
                        
                            Marlborough
                        
                    —for example, Vol. II, chaps, 3 and 4. In the midst of much that is shifting sand,
                    the Bouillon manuscript, as far as it goes  and for what it
                    covers, is a sizable rock. To this reviewer the most striking thing is the insistent, fresh
                    emergence of the lines of James's character and personality. This long self-portrait is
                    involuntary, unintended: James's conscious thought is directed only toward military
                    concerns and family matters; his habit of mind is impersonal, factual; his angular
                    style—which Mr. Sells regrets but follows with faithfulness—is cool,
                    impersonal, almost stolid. We may take a decade-long look at the James found here, almost surprised
                    to find him free of both the blackening and the lost-cause romanticism with which successive
                    centuries have visited him.
            The background needed to enjoy in perspective both the place of the Bouillon manuscript as a document
                    and its contents as part of history is considerable and often complex. Under the editorial care of
                    Mr. Sells this need is admirably met and fully met, except perhaps that one might wish included a
                    single-scale map showing handily the areas of the various campaigns and their chief actions. Sir
                    Arthur Bryant has written the Introduction—a factual, compact, leisurely life of James
                    II, an example of modern scholarship's view of this oftdebated monarch. Mr.
                    Randall's Preface has assembled the evidence available on sources for James II and set the
                    Bouillon manuscript in its place. Furthermore, he and his associate, Percy Muir, together give the
                    account of the discovery of the Bouillon manuscript—to be brief, any bibliophile engaged
                    in summoning lawyer and priest would bid both wait while he heard this tale again. Mr. Sells, as
                    editor and translator, meets with judgment and verve the delicate textual problems involved in
                    translation and collation, and in his "Translator's Introduction" and in
                    the notes illuminates the relevant background of the campaigns, of the individuals appearing in the
                    text, and of those connected with the manuscript.
            Altogether, Mr. Sells and his colleagues have set ready at hand for the student of the seventeenth
                    century an instrument at once reliable, convenient, and, especially in the mathematician's
                    sense of the word, elegant.
            Mary Elizabeth Campbell, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               American Suffrage from Property to Democracy, 1760–1860. By Chilton
                    Williamson. (
                        Princeton
                    , 
                        N.J.
                    : 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1960. Pp. x, 306. Index. $6.00.)
            At long last a volume has appeared that clears up most of the tangled web in which our suffrage
                    history has been obscured. It is a book which is certainly not to be recommended to the casual
                    reader but which should not be ignored by anyone wishing a clearer understanding of this
                    country's democracy.
            By doing a state by state survey of most of the Atlantic seaboard the author has shown that in
                    pre-Revolutionary days the colonies all demanded at least a freehold qualification test for voting,
                    but frequently this requirement was ignored and thus a broader suffrage was more often in existence
                    that has been credited by historians.
            
            To Williamson the turning point in the movement that led to eventual universal white manhood suffrage
                    was the Revolution. During this period anti-British agitators and suffrage reformers found common
                    cause in their struggle against Britain. This, then, marked the beginning of conscious involvement
                    in suffrage reform that was to continue even into the present century.
            The book treats in detail (sometimes to the reader's anguish) the struggle in each state for
                    lessening of property qualifications that appeared in the post-Revolutionary period. The suffrage
                    advances that Williamson records were made as a result sometimes of party politics, of
                    soldiers' demands, and of southern attempts to line up nonslaveholding whites in a solid
                    white front.
            Turnerites are dealt a blow when Williamson in his shortest chapter points out that the New West made
                    few contributions to suffrage. Instead the western states borrowed from the new advances of the
                    seaboard states.
            Often, almost as much an issue as suffrage was the idea of making voting procedures more democratic.
                    Mr. Williamson records the complaints of voters about the necessity of traveling to distant polls
                    and lack of secrecy in voting.
            From the 1820's on, the suffrage issue was relegated to a minor role, bursting forth
                    dramatically only in the Dorr Rebellion of the 1840's. But by the eve of the Civil War
                    universal white manhood suffrage was a reality in the 
                        United States
                    .
            This is a book which will long be the last word on the subject of pre-Civil War suffrage reform in
                    this country. Too much credit cannot be given Mr. Williamson for coming to grips with such a complex
                    problem, nor too much praise for handling it so competently.
            Ron Ridgley, Deming Junior High School, 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Virginia
                         Railroads in the Civil War. By Angus James Johnston, II. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, for the 
                        Virginia
                     Historical Society, 1961. Pp. xiv, 336. Illustrations, tables, maps, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $6.00.)
            The importance of railroads in the Civil War has long been recognized by historians. Only recently,
                    however, with the appearance of a glut of Civil War histories and extended studies dealing
                    specifically with railroad history, has this importance been clearly demonstrated. Angus Johnston,
                    in this meticulously detailed economic-military history of the role of 
                        Virginia
                    's railroads in determining the outcome of that war, has offered the hypothesis
                    that one of the major disadvantages of the South in the military competition between the differing
                    economic structures of the blue and the gray was its transportation network. Having selected 
                        Virginia
                     as the test site for his hypothesis because it contained the preponderance of southern
                    railroad mileage and served, as well, as the major battleground of the war, the author concludes
                    that without adequate transportation, principally railroads, the logistical problems encountered by
                    the Confederacy were such as to determine in large measure the outcome of "the
                    world's first modern railroad war."
            The ineptitude of the southern government in dealing with the problem of adequate transportation, on
                    the one hand, and northern  efficiency, on the other, were the
                    deciding factors in most of the military campaigns in 
                        Virginia
                    . While the North was establishing a centrally directed program for mobilization of its
                    railroads under the capable direction of Herman Haupt and Daniel C. McCallum, the South was stymied
                    by the central government's inherent laissez-faire attitude coupled with local
                    particularism and private industry's aversion to anything that smacked of governmental
                    supervision.
            This debilitating political factor was augmented, furthermore, not only by the local, disjointed
                    nature of the southern railroad net and the lack of a uniform gauge, but by a host of economic
                    problems peculiar to the railroads of the Confederacy as a whole. The complete dependence of the
                    South upon northern or European sources for motive power, rails, and equipment (preventing the
                    acquisition of replacements), the pre-emption by the central government of all foundries and iron
                    manufacturing establishments for strictly military purposes, and the scarcity of labor to effect
                    repairs in the deteriorating railroad facilities forced the South to resort to a policy of
                    attrition. Attrition, in turn, led to shrinkage of usable railroad mileage to the point where the
                    Army of Northern 
                        Virginia
                     could not be supplied with the necessities of war. With all the shortcomings of
                    southern railroads and the ravaging of 
                        Virginia
                    's railroads by northern military strategists in the latter stages of the war,
                    it is a wonder that the railroads continued to serve the cause of the South as long as they did.
            Mr. Johnston in his research encountered the perennial problem of the economic-business historian in
                    search of early business records—difficulty in locating them and scarcity of sufficient
                    pertinent information upon their discovery, mainly because of lack of historical consciousness on
                    the part of early management. The author's persistent sleuthing enabled him to uncover the
                    necessary original sources. In spite of an occasional lapse into documented minutia and the fact
                    that citations are placed at the end of the monograph rather than in their traditionally correct
                    position at the bottom of each page, he has produced a useful, scholarly case study.
            Ralph Wm. Helfrich, Jr., Simpson College
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Kansas
                        : A Pictorial History. By Nyle H. Miller, Edgar Langsdorf, and Robert W.
                    Richmond (
                        Topeka
                    : 
                        Kansas
                     Centennial Commission and the [
                        Kansas
                    ] State Historical Society, 1961. Pp. viii, 320. Maps, numerous illustrations, picture
                    credits, index. $8.95.)
            
               
                  
                            Kansas
                         in Maps. By Robert W. Baughman (
                        Topeka
                    : 
                        Kansas
                     State Historical Society, 1961. Pp. 104. $9.95.)
            
               
                  
                            Kansas
                        : A Pictorial History can be many things to many people. The text, though
                    brief, is a simply and clearly written narrative that begins with Coronado—first white
                    visitor—and ends with a note on today's commercial airlines. This account
                    contains many interesting bits of information on several major themes of 
                        Kansas
                     history, such as the preterritorial era, statehood, the war years, range cattle,
                    transportation, politics, industry, and culture.
            The pictures included in the volume have been grouped in a manner that corresponds nicely with the
                    narrative, but each illustration carries  its own descriptive or
                    explanatory label. By viewing the illustrations and reading their captions it is, in fact, possible
                    to obtain a sense of history in 
                        Kansas
                    , an appreciation of what Allan Nevins had in mind when he wrote 
                  
                            Kansas
                         and the Stream of American Destiny (Lawrence, Kan., 1954). The illustrations
                    are for the most part reproductions of original and contemporary drawings, lithographs,
                    daguerreotypes, and photographs. But not exclusively so. Some pen and ink sketches and paintings
                    produced long after the events they depict are also presented here. Among these are works by the
                    cartoonist and artist Albert T. Reid. Relatively few illustrations are identified as to original
                    producer or publisher. The illustrations are so well chosen and of such interest that they deserve
                    proper identification. Among reproductions are important documents and broadsides, as well as
                    cartoons. Of special interest to the historian is the inclusion of maps representing the successive
                    stages in the political development of the Sunflower State. The first of these—an inside
                    cover map—is an excerpt from J. H. Colton's map of 
                        Kansas
                     and 
                        Nebraska
                    , 1854.
            Those interested in the cartographical history of 
                        Kansas
                     must necessarily turn to Robert W. Boughman's 
                  
                            Kansas
                         in Maps. This beautifully printed historical atlas contains more than ninety
                    maps of the 
                        Kansas
                     area. The maps cover more than four and one-half centuries during which time six (not
                    counting Indian) nations claimed all or part of 
                        Kansas
                    . The maps here reproduced in color and in black and white, of course, illustrate much
                    more the political status of 
                        Kansas
                     at given periods in its history. They show such things as the routes of explorers,
                    location of Indian tribes, land surveys, waterways, roads, railroad lines and railroad land grants,
                    and mineral resources. As in 
                  
                            Kansas
                        : A Pictorial History, the atlas volume contains very few captions that
                    identify individual maps. Some of the map titles that appear on the original maps have, by chance,
                    been reproduced, but the message the compiler wishes conveyed is embodied in a running narrative. It
                    is therefore imperative that the user of 
                  
                            Kansas
                         in Maps read the text if he really wishes to profit from an examination of the
                    maps. This is unfortunate for those wishing to use a work of this kind as a quick reference or
                    guide.
            The 
                        Kansas
                     State Historical Society is to be congratulated on having produced these two items
                    along with an index to the society's publications in commemoration of a century of 
                        Kansas
                     statehood. The Indiana Historical Society might well consider the production of similar
                    memorials with which to commemorate the forthcoming sesquicentennial of the Hoosier State.
            Oscar Osburn Winther, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               South Pass, 1868: James Chisholm's Journal of the Wyoming Gold Rush.
                    Edited by Lola M. Homsher. Pioneer Heritage Series, Volume III. (Lincoln:
                    University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1960. Pp. vi, 244. Illustrations, maps, supplementary notes, bibliography.
                    $4.50.)
            
               South Pass, 1868, is an unusual journal due to the fact that it pertains to a
                    rather unfamiliar aspect of the western mineral frontier and in the sense that it is an uncommonly
                    lucid document. In general,  historians of the West have made but
                    scant mention of Wyoming's South Pass gold rush. Hubert Howe Bancroft in his volume Nevada, Colorado and Wyoming devotes roughly two pages to this subject, and the
                    episode completely escapes mention in Glenn C. Quiett's Pay Dirt, a
                    volume entirely devoted to American gold rushes. And, one might interject, the editor of
                    Chisholm's journal leaves her readers in comparative darkness as to the scope and nature of
                    the South Pass developments which during 1867–1868 involved approximately seven hundred
                    grizzled, veteran prospectors in a futile scramble for riches.
            It might, however, be said that James Chisholm's journal supplies the reader with much of
                    the needed orientation. Chisholm was an educated Scottish immigrant who as a correspondent for the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune was sent to the pass to report on the rush. Chisholm, who was more of a
                    flute-playing, drawing-room rather than barroom reporter, arrived at 
                        Cheyenne
                     just in time for a double lynching and a murder. His accounts of life in rough and
                    tough Cheyenne are delightfully fresh, vivid, and, in a way, picturesque. The journal describes what
                    was for the most part an abortive attempt to extract quartz gold in paying quantities, the familiar
                    rough and tumble life at the gulches and at 
                        Miners Delight
                     (a Hell tent town), peripheral Indian episodes, and interesting observations growing
                    out of a couple of side trips into the Wind River Valley. Pencil drawings by the author accompany
                    the text. Two good maps supplied by the editor keep the reader from becoming lost geographically.
            By the time Chisholm returned to 
                        Chicago
                     the gold excitement had subsided and, possibly for this reason, the journal failed to
                    appear either in whole or in part in the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune. Publication here is the journal's first, and it is a most
                    welcome and valued addition to source literature on the far-flung mining frontier. The book appears
                    in a format befitting the excellence of its contents. It is another treasured gem in the Pioneer Heritage Series.
            
            Oscar Osburn Winther, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               Outlawing the Spoils: A History of the Civil Service Reform Movement,
                        1865–1883. By Ari Hoogenboom. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1961. Pp. xi, 306. Bibliography, appendices, index. $6.50.)
            This is the most complete history of the civil service reform movement between the Civil War and the
                    Pendleton Act. Neither the older work of Carl Russell Fish, The Civil Service and the
                        Patronage, nor the newer History of the 
                            United States
                         Civil Service, by Paul P. Van Riper, give more than two or three chapters to
                    this period. The author, who is assistant professor of history at 
                        Pennsylvania
                     State University, submitted Outlawing the Spoils as his Ph.D.
                    dissertation at 
                        Columbia
                     University in 1958.
            Civil service reform was an increasingly important political issue in the post-Civil War era.
                    Hoogenboom makes the strong statement that "no other American movement has claimed more
                    intellectual and social leaders" (p. vii). As to politicians who favored or opposed civil
                    service reform, the author says his research leads him to suggest that this movement fits into an
                    "out" versus "in" pattern. He uses as his  "text" Ben Butler's dictum that
                    "civil service reform is always popular with the ‘outs’ and never
                    with the ‘ins,’ unless with those who have a strong expectation of soon going
                    out" (p. ix). This reviewer does not question that there is a great deal of truth to the
                    generalization, but, ironically, the congressional votes on the Jenckes civil service reform bill in
                    1867 and the Pendleton Bill in 1883 do not, in these particular cases, bear out the thesis. On the
                    other hand, there is considerable evidence to show that those "outs" who spoke
                    glibly for civil service reform found the spoils system not so bad after they came into power. Even
                    President Grover Cleveland, according to Hoogenboom, disappointed many of the civil service
                    reformers who supported him in the election of 1884.
            As important as the "outs" versus" "ins" pattern is the
                    equally significant urban versus rural pattern brought out in this work. Urban areas were more
                    likely to support this reform movement than were the rural areas.
            In the judgment of this reviewer one of the chief contributions which Professor Hoogenboom has made
                    in this volume is the study of the reformers whose persistence was important in finally bringing
                    about civil service reform. "Most of them," says Hoogenboom, "were
                    lawyers, editors, clergymen, professors, and businessmen whose interests were mercantile and
                    financial rather than industrial" (p. 21). The typical reformer came from old, fairly
                    wealthy 
                        New England
                     (and 
                        New York
                    ) families and deplored the mass materialism of the new rich. He was likely to be an
                    Episcopalian or a Unitarian and a 
                        Harvard
                     graduate. Hoogenboom questions the view of Matthew Josephson that civil service reform
                    was essentially a businessman's movement to make political parties and politicians less
                    dependent on the political assessments of office holders and more dependent on the contributions of
                    the businessmen whose point of view the party would have to reflect. This typical reformer supported
                    Frémont in 1856, Lincoln in 1860 and 1864, Grant in 1868, probably Greeley in 1872, Hayes
                    in 1876, Garfield in 1880, and 
                        Cleveland
                     in 1884. Because of his hard money views he supported McKinley in 1896 but likely
                    opposed him in 1900 on imperalism.
            The author accepts Dorman B. Eaton's evaluation that Congress was more to blame than Grant
                    for killing civil service reform during the latter's presidency.
            Some statistical tables showing the votes for and against the Jenckes and Pendleton bills would have
                    made it easier to visualize the party support for, and opposition to, the civil service reform
                    movement.
            The footnotes and the comprehensive bibliography of primary sources and secondary works attest to the
                    scholarly character of this work.
            Willard H. Smith, 
                  
                            Goshen
                         College
            
         
         
            
               Frank B. Kellogg and American Foreign Relations, 1925–1929. By L.
                    Ethan Ellis. (
                        New Brunswick
                    , 
                        N.J.
                    : Rutgers University Press, 1961. Pp. ix, 303. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $7.50.)
            Frank B. Kellogg was not an outstanding secretary of state; the period 1925–1929 was not
                    one of large diplomatic achievement for the 
                        United States
                    . Yet these were not years of stagnation in American 
                    foreign relations; there were a few important successes. And this was not a period of complete
                    withdrawal from foreign responsibilities—rather it "was a middle period between
                    the verdant isolationism of post-
                        Versailles
                     days and the aggressive insulationism of the middle thirties" (p. 232). Such
                    is the theme which emerges from this volume which, despite the prominence given his name on the dust
                    jacket, the binding, and the title page, does not focus upon Kellogg. It is essentially a narrative
                    of American foreign relations during the second Coolidge administration.
            Except for the specialist in recent diplomatic history or the student of specific foreign problems
                    (e.g., Mexican self-assertion, 
                        China
                    's attempt to remove restrictions upon her sovereignty, war debts and
                    reparations, naval disarmament, the Pact of 
                        Paris
                    ), the bulk of this volume will have little appeal. The narrative leads the reader
                    through all of the tortuous details of the diplomatic maneuvering of the period—much of
                    which was maneuver and little else.
            The concluding chapter is another matter. Here, in nine pages Professor Ellis presents a brief, but
                    lucid and penetrating, analysis of Coolidge-Kellogg diplomacy. He portrays Kellogg as an able
                    individual who suffered from frequent comparison with his illustrious predecessor, a man who never
                    fully adjusted to the processes of diplomacy. He describes Kellogg as one who depended excessively
                    upon his advisers, who was cautious to a fault, who received little stimulus from a supine
                    President. The author believes that in analyzing American diplomacy of those years the historian can
                    point to poverty of imagination, undue emphasis upon the status quo, a maximum
                    expenditure of energy to produce a modicum of accomplishment. Such a policy, he thinks, blended into
                    the prevailing climate of American opinion in the late twenties. Americans did not want an assertive
                    foreign policy and probably would not have responded to one if proffered.
            In alluding to popular opinion at this point Professor Ellis points up a weakness of his volume. His
                    study, based primarily upon State Department documents and personal papers of prominent American
                    diplomats and politicians, seldom identifies or defines those forces and attitudes in America of
                    which the diplomacy of the Coolidge years was a product. Foreign relations are more than a series of
                    debates and exchanges between diplomats; yet Professor Ellis has devoted most of his volume to their
                    argument and counterargument. As a history of foreign relations during 1925–1929, then,
                    it is incomplete. To illustrate, the author ignores the role of the navy's representatives
                    at the 
                        Geneva
                     Naval Conference of 1927. These men were hostile to the objectives of the conference
                    and probably contributed to its failure. Had the author examined naval documents in the National
                    Archives he could have ascertained the navy's role in the 
                        Geneva
                     debacle and at the same time added to the reader's understanding of the
                    American position.
            While the author has no novel interpretations of Kellogg or the State Department under his tutelage,
                    this is an important study inasmuch as it provides the best available summary of American diplomatic
                    activity during the years 1925–1929. It will prove valuable to the historian who sets out
                    to write a synthesis of the twenties or of modern American diplomatic history.
            John E. Wilts, Indiana University
            
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               The Midwest: Myth or Reality? By Thomas T. McAvoy et al. (Notre
                    Dame, Ind.: University of Notre Dame Press, 1961. Pp. vii, 96. $3.50.) This small volume
                    discusses large and continuing questions about the past, present, and future of the American
                    Midwest. It comprises seven essays which were presented at a symposium at the University of Notre
                    Dame, April 8–9, 1960, under the direction of Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C. In addition to
                    Father McAvoy, Professors Russel B. Nye, Jay W. Wiley, John T. Flanagan, and John T. Frederick as
                    well as Editor Donald R. Murphy and Senator Gale W. McGee are contributors. Here, for general
                    readers as well as for scholars is a readable book which gives substantial focus to the continuing
                    importance of the Midwest in American and world history. Moreover, the volume also offers commentary
                    suggesting that the bias and provincialism involved in interpretations of the role of the Midwest in
                    politics, in economic affairs, and in cultural developments has perhaps come as often from
                    "outsiders" and new residents as from "natives" and permanent
                    residents. This book affords much evidence of the continuing reality and vitality of the American
                    Midwest. The Midwest also indicates, both explicitly and implicitly, that there is
                    much myth in various of the interpretations which have been offered about the isolation,
                    sectionalism, and provincialism of the Midwest.
            
               Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        . Reprint. By Maurice Thompson. (
                        Vincennes
                     University Press, 1961. Pp. 332. Paperbound, $1.75.) This reprint edition of
                        Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
                is a timely and significant milestone as the initial venture of the revivified 
                        Vincennes
                     University Press. The continued popularity of Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
                from its original publication by the Bowen-Merrill Company of 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1900 through at least the following three or four decades augurs well for favorable
                    public response to this new edition. In the Foreword to it, the 
                        Vincennes
                     University Press announces that one of its purposes "will be to make available
                    in printed form from time to time reprints, source materials and worthwhile contributions pertaining
                    to the historical and cultural background of 
                        old Vincennes
                     and its environs." If the 
                        Vincennes
                     University Press can successfully achieve this objective, it will make a worthwhile and
                    needed contribution to historical study concerning 
                        Vincennes
                     and the American Midwest. Maurice Thompson's historical romance is a novel of
                    the exciting events centering at 
                        Vincennes
                     in connection with the military campaign of General George Rogers Clark to the 
                        Illinois
                     Country in 1778–1779. Junior high school students of Indiana history as well
                    as adults can read and reread Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
                and derive both enjoyment and increased understanding of the historical role
                    which 
                        Vincennes
                     played in frontier days. The presentation of General Henry Hamilton as a "hair
                    buyer" and Thompson's other interpretations of historical events at 
                        Vincennes
                    , however, should be checked against recently published historical studies of these
                    events.  Of particular relevance in this instance is Professor
                    John D. Barnhart's Henry Hamilton and George Rogers Clark in the American
                        Revolution, with the Unpublished Journal of Lieut. Gov. Henry Hamilton (1951).
            
               Life of Abraham Lincoln. Reproduction. By John Locke Scripps. Edited by Roy P.
                    Basler and Lloyd A. Dunlap. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1961. Pp. 192. Appendix, index. $7.95.) Roy P.
                    Basler, editor of The Collected Works of Abraham Lincoln (9 vols.,
                    1953–1955) regards the biography of Abraham Lincoln, by John Locke Scripps, as the
                    "most authoritative and influential" of the eighteen separate campaign biographies
                    of Lincoln (p. 7). Basler considers Scripps's biography as "one of the most
                    carefully prepared and probably the most widely distributed of all the campaign
                    biographies" (p. 20). This 1961 edition includes valuable editorial comment, though
                    Scripps's concise biography should be read without as well as with such comment. Certainly
                    any individual who has more than ordinary interest in Abraham Lincoln should give careful
                    consideration to this volume.
            
               The Potawatomi Indians. Reprint. By Otho Winger. (
                        Elgin
                    , 
                        Ill.
                    : Elgin Press, 1939; reprinted, 
                        North Manchester
                    , Ind.: L. W. Shultz, 1961. Pp. 159. Maps, illustrations, bibliography.
                    $2.00.) The original edition of this volume appeared in 1939. Written by Otho Winger, a
                    long-time student of Indian lore and history who was also president of 
                        Manchester
                     College for a number of years, it offers useful information about the Potawatomi in
                    readable form. The editor of the Indiana Magazine of History recalls seeing
                    President Winger in the Indiana Division of the Indiana State Library. To date he remains the only
                    college or university president ever so observed! The Potawatomi Indians remains
                    an account worth reading and one of value even to researchers; however, this modest volume is
                    incomplete and its conclusions, as in the case of most studies about Indians, are often vulnerable
                    to alternative interpretations. This book, as is true for the writings of Otho Winger generally, can
                    be read with profit by most junior high students of at least average ability.
            
               Miami Indian Stories. Told by Chief Clarence Godfroy. Compiled and edited by Martha
                    Una McClurg. ([
                        North Manchester
                    , Ind.: Una McClurg and L. W. Shultz], 1961. Pp. xiv, 172. Illustrations, appendix.
                    $3.00.) This book offers a collection of Miami stories as told by Clarence Godfroy and
                    compiled by Martha Una McClurg. Its value to anthropologists or folklorists seems dubious. As one
                    reads these stories it seems apparent that the contributions of author and compiler have become
                    diffused and confused. The reliability of the text is not enhanced by the editorial claim that
                    Godfroy "is completely Indian in character" (p. v) nor by the effort to link him
                    in line of direct descent from Godfrey of Bouillon. The Frances Slocum story as printed here reads
                    more like an account from a printed version than Miami folklore. Volumes such as this probably
                    decrease rather than increase knowledge and understanding of the American Indian.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
