
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 46, Issue 4, pages 343-454. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:46+issue:4+year:1950&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Religious Influences in the Development of State Colleges and Universities
            
               Earle D. Ross*
            The search for origins of American institutions, European and colonial, has provided endless, as well
                    as generally inconclusive, historical controversies. The pastime has been especially dear to
                    antiquarian partisans of racial, regional, and sectarian interests. Due to notorious liberties in
                    nomenclature, educational history has been especially open to such indulgences. Thus, to come to the
                    subject in hand, the question as to whether our state colleges and universities had their beginnings
                    in colonial colleges presents but another exercise in semantics. Church establishments gave their
                    colleges official sanction and virtual monopoly of higher education under the standing order. Beyond
                    this grant of powers the government was not obligated. In no case was there the recognition of a
                    responsibility for support and of a duty to promote general services as against that of safeguarding
                    the doctrines and prerogatives of the particular sect.1 To be sure the period
                    was one of genesis, and it may be said that the colonial colleges were the forerunners of our state
                    universities and land-grant colleges in the sense that the dame schools prepared the way for the
                    kindergarten, the Latin grammar school fathered the 
                  
                     * Earle D. Ross is a member of the department of history at 
                                Iowa
                             State College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts, 
                                Ames
                            , 
                                Iowa
                            . This paper was read at the session on "Religion and
                            Education" at the forty-third annual meeting of the Mississippi
                            Valley Historical Association at 
                                Oklahoma City
                            , 
                                Oklahoma
                            , on April 20, 1950.
                  
                     1 A concise exposition of church and state relations in the colonial
                            and revolutionary eras is Evarts B. Greene, Religion and the State: The Making
                                and Testing of an American Tradition (
                                New York
                            , 1941). A comprehensive treatment of the whole subject to date is Anson P.
                            Stokes, Church and State in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1950).
               
                     all-purpose high school, and the old-field schools pointed the
                    way to county consolidations. Such connections, however, put a hard strain upon the germ theory of
                    history.
            Realistically the colonial ventures in higher education were modest replicas of the typical English
                    university college with the same narrow content, formal method, and restricted aim and appeal. The
                    main departures were in growing evidences of restiveness to sectarian restraints, proposals and
                    small concessions in subject innovations, especially in the College of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and the democratizing influence of the log-colleges and seminaries. Nowhere was the
                    social purpose and the expansive and adaptable program of the matured state institution to be
                        glimpsed.2
            
            Consequently without radical alteration in control, curriculum, and objectives, these bulwarks of
                    traditional orthodoxy were entirely inadequate and inappropriate as agencies to propagate and
                    propagandize the democratic transformations of society that the devotees of the Enlightenment were
                    deliberately and sedulously striving for in the era of the Revolution. For in their day these
                    progressive educationists dared openly and confidently to essay the building of a new social order
                    through the public school system.3
            
            Their planning involved the up–to–date ideas of the French system of unified
                    state control from elementary instruction to the university. The system was to be wholly secularized
                    with broad curriculum in which modern languages and literatures and the sciences, natural and
                    social, should have co-ordinate emphasis with the classics. The most thorough going reformers,
                    especially those of European background, felt that the nation itself was the only suitable agency
                        
                  
                     2 For traditional opposing views see, Charles K. Adams,
                            "State Universities," The North American Review (248
                            vols., 
                        Boston, New York
                     , 1815-1940), CXXI (1875), 365-408; George F.
                            Magoun, "The Source of American Education—Popular and
                            Religious," New Engender (56 vols., 
                        New Haven, Connecticut
                     , 1843-1892), XXXVI (1877), 445-486. A more impartial
                            summary of the evidence is Elmer E. Brown, "The Origin of American State
                            Universities," University of 
                                California
                            
                            Publications in Education (Berkeley, 1893-), III (1903), 1-45. For the
                            College of 
                                Philadelphia
                             see, Edward P. Cheyney, History of the University of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , 1740-1940 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1940); Thomas Woody, Educational Views of Benjamin Franklin (
                                New York
                            , 1931).
                  
                     3 A convenient summary and appraisal of the leading educational plans
                            of the period is Allen O. Hansen, Liberalism, and American Education in the
                                Eighteenth Century (
                                New York
                            , 1926). See also Charles F. Thwing, A History of Higher Education
                                in America (
                                New York
                            , 1906), 193-200; Stokes, Church and State, I, 628-638.
               
                     and jurisdiction for such a regeneration while native leaders
                    like 
                        Washington
                     and Benjamin Rush, who appreciated state sensibilities and jealousies, regarded a
                    national university as wholly appropriate. With the initial and persisting state loyalties, there
                    was no possibility of the nationalizing of so intimate a function as the public schools; and the
                    national university, except for the military division and certain research agencies, has never been
                    realized.
            As Jefferson, the master mind and the guiding spirit of the educational reformers, realized, the true
                    opportunity was in creating new state systems in accord with regional interests. The first step was
                    to liberalize and modernize the existing colleges by alteration of their charters. Efforts to
                    function-alize and socialize the old centers of sectarian orthodoxy were eagerly undertaken, but
                    academic inertia and natural conservatism of much of the constituency delayed and tempered the
                    innovations. As it proved, the defenders of the old ways were given legal relief by the Dartmouth
                    College decision which brought comfort to those who loved the small colleges, not so much for their
                    moral or cultural inspiration as for the defense which they gave to the established order.
            In newer states or in the cases of colleges too unresponsive to the Zeitgeist, new
                    public universities were made to order. Institutions of the approved pattern were launched in the
                    Carolinas and Georgia and in the 
                        New England
                     frontier 
                        Vermont
                    , while public land grants promoted the initial state universities in the Northwest.
                    Presidents and key faculty members sympathetic to the new program were widely sought at home and
                    abroad.
            The most complete expression of Jefferson's design was, of course, his own University of 
                        Virginia
                    —the apex of his proposed pyramid of state education. To safeguard the
                    liberal innovations in instruction and administration and to insure the fullest public control, a
                    theological department and clerical professors were excluded. Such a policy by no means reflected an
                    insensibility to religion as a social determinant or a lack of appreciation of theology, as such, as
                    a field of study and research. On the contrary, Jefferson had a rare understanding of the religious
                    influence in social progress and, in spite of his unorthodox trinitarian views, a truer and more
                    realistic conception of the Christian ethic than did his intolerant assailants. As a student and
                    observer of the European  universities he was familiar with the
                    place of the faculty of theology and his original plan included such a chair. Apparently he was
                    persuaded by Thomas Cooper of the impossibility, in practice, of separating basic religious
                    principles from an intolerant divisive sectarianism. Without risking such a devitalizing influence,
                    he was still confident that essential religious values might be taught by the professor of ethics.
                    He did not, however, leave the important matter at that.
            Characteristically of the philosopher's realism, he gave recognition to the benefits of
                    church organization and made a concession to the prevalent sectarian loyalties by a provision for
                    affiliated schools of theology for such denominations as cared to provide this special instruction
                    for their student constituencies. This invitation extended impartially to all denominations, in
                    accord with the spirit of the 
                        Virginia
                     Statute of Religious Freedom, had the immediate effect of securing the support for the
                    state institution of the influential dissenting sects who were fearful of the restoration of an
                    establishment or of any favored treatment of a particular group.4
            
            The nearest counterpart of this plan in the West was the University of 
                        Michigan
                     which was originally designed by a disciple of Jefferson after the French model. Both
                    universities were subjected to wearisome delays. 
                        Virginia
                    's project did not get under way until 1825 and 
                        Michigan
                    's came a dozen years later. By that time the German system, following the
                    celebrated report of Victor Cousin, had come to supersede the French as the goal of the
                        progressives.5 In either case the movement was handicapped and prejudiced by
                    foreign origins popularly associated with radicalism in thought and conduct. In popular thinking
                    these extreme and erratic instances tended to discredit all secularizing and rationalizing
                    innovations. The cause suffered greatly, too, from intransigent 
                  
                     4 Jefferson's educational ideas and plans, with extended
                            selections from his writings may he traced conveniently in the following: Herbert B. Adams,
                                Thomas Jefferson and the University of 
                                    Virginia
                                
                      (
                                Washington
                            , 1888); John S. Patton, Jefferson, Cabell, and the University of 
                                    Virginia
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1906); Roy J. Honeywell, The Educational Work of Thomas
                            Jefferson (
                        Cambridge, Massachusetts
                     , 1931); Stokes, Church and State, I, 333-339, II, 633-634.
                  
                     5 Willis Dunbar, "Public Versus Private Control of Higher
                            Education in 
                                Michigan
                            , 1817-1855," 
                        Mississippi Valley
                                Historical Review (
                                Cedar Rapids
                            , 
                                Iowa
                            , 1914-), XXII (1935-1936), 388-392; Edwin E. Slosson, The American
                                Spirit in Education (
                        New Haven,
                                    Connecticut
                     , 1921),
                        171-175.
               
                     visionaries, impatient of delay and concession in bringing in
                    the new order.
            The new social order, it appeared, was slow in emerging. As always the proposed changes were
                    discredited by over-zealous enthusiasts and irresponsible opportunists. With many liberty seemed but
                    a cloak for license. Undergraduates in the old centers of piety made ostentatious parade of their
                    infidelity and of their utter contempt for conventional morals.6 Naturally the
                    keepers of the old order felt that the foundations of religion, morality,
                    government, and business were endangered and instituted a vigorous counter attack
                    at all these points. This was not difficult. With the average American citizen such new and alien
                    doctrines as deism, materialism, environmentalism, pacificism and the equal rights of the sexes,
                    classes, and races were repugnant. Especially in his religious beliefs did he keep to the
                    fundamental traditions. The more extreme rationalistic groups never secured popular following. As a
                    precaution in social stability, free thinking either in Europe or America was never made too free to
                    the general run of folk.
            In the ensuing "Protestant counter-reformation" or "second
                    awakening," sectarian influence in higher education was regained and greatly extended.
                    Champions of the faith like Timothy Dwight at 
                        Yale
                     made such devastating rout of soph-omoric sophistries that those who came to college as
                    scoffers remained as humble converts.7 The old colleges became centers of
                    missionary recruitment, both to the benighted heathen in distant lands and to the wild westerners at
                    home. College extension paralleled church extension. Certain sects insisted from the first upon a
                    trained ministry and others, who had relied largely upon emotional appeal, were forced in self
                    defense to provide institutions for training their clerical and lay leadership. The result was an
                    inordinate founding of colleges which in some frontier states were so unsubstantial that the
                    mortality was a total one hundred per cent.8
            
            
               
                  6 Howard M. Jones, America and French Culture
                                (
                     Chapel Hill, North Carolina
                  , 1927), 375-387.
               
                  7 Charles E. Cuningham, Timothy Dwight, 1752-1817: A
                            Biography (
                            New York
                        , 1942), 293-334.
               
                  8 Donald G. Tewksbury, Founding of American Colleges and
                            Universities Before the Civil War (
                            New York
                        , 1932), 28; Adams, "State Universities," The North
                            American Review, CXXI, 387-391.
            
            
            Permanent or transient, high or low standard, these colleges dominated the nation's higher
                    education throughout the "denominational era" before the Civil War. These
                    regionally available and piously purposed centers of learning undoubtedly provided the sort of
                    educational opportunity that the public desired at this stage.
            In the middle fifties a valiant champion of higher education as an instrument of the faith could make
                    the complacent if not strictly accurate, report that "The whole number of Colleges in these 
                        United States
                     not founded by religion can be counted upon one hand; and the two most prominent have
                    never prospered till now they have passed into the care of Christian teachers. … Of
                    forty-nine thousand graduates up to 1850, forty-two thousand were from institutions sustained by two
                    religious denominations, and in their Colleges west of Lake Erie alone seven hundred conversions
                    have occurred, and five hundred of these converts have been and are to be preachers of the
                        Gospel."9
            
            At least down to the fifties, church provided and directed collegiate education was so in conformity
                    with popular desire that there was little demand for distinct state institutions. In fact the line
                    between the two sorts of higher education was often very indistinct. In spite of legal separation of
                    church and state, in education the two interests were frequently intermingled. In a considerable
                    number of cases states gave aid to purely sectarian colleges, and at least half a dozen public land
                    grants were made to such institutions.10 In the border states of 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     the state support was given to sectarian colleges whose boards were controlled by the
                    dominant religious group of the period. The promoters of the 
                        Ohio
                     Company had expected that the colleges founded from their educational grants would have
                    the status of those of 
                        New England
                    , and while the universities at 
                        Athens
                     and 
                        Oxford
                     were nominally state, they were really directed by presidents and boards of the leading
                    denomination of the new state. 
                  
                     9 George F. Magoun, The West: Its Culture and Its
                                Colleges (
                                Davenport
                            , 
                                Iowa
                            , 1855), 30.
                  
                     10 Benjamin H. Hibbard, History of Public Land
                            Policies (
                                New York
                            , 1924), 342; George P. Schmidt, The Old Time College
                            President (
                                New York
                            , 1930), 37-38; Samuel W. Brown, The Secularization of American
                                Education (
                                New York
                            , 1912), 49; Sylvanus M. Duvall, The Methodist Episcopal Church
                                and. Education up to 1869 (
                                New York
                            , 1928), 87; Albea Godbold, The Church College of the Old
                            South (
                                Durham
                            , 
                                North Carolina
                            , 1944), 161-163.
               
                     In various other states, South and West, the dominant sects
                    prevented the establishment of real state universities.11
            
            The main incentive for establishing state universities at all in this period was the federal
                    university grant. In a number of states and territories denominational interests by diverting the
                    grant to seminaries or normal schools were able to delay indefinitely the founding of a state rival.
                    Another defensive scheme, especially when the demand for vocational training developed in the
                    fifties, was to have the state institution devoted largely to technical and professional training
                    while leaving the field of general education mainly to the colleges.12
            
            There need have been little anxiety regarding this rivalry as throughout the period to the seventies
                    the leading denominations were able to direct or at least to hold in check the so-called state
                    universities. Often the main struggle was between rival sectarian interests. There was the
                    assumption, generally supported by prevailing public opinion, that the leading denominations should
                    be represented on the governing boards with the prevailing faith in the majority.13 Consequently the organization and program were brought into conformity with a standard that
                    made evangelical religion the great objective. Neither Jefferson's French university system
                    in 
                        Virginia
                     nor Henry Tappan's German system in 
                        Michigan
                     could prevail against the popular will.
            Regardless of jurisdiction the old-time college president was a clergyman. After a few venturesome
                    trials with lay executives the state universities kept to the conventional field of selection. After 
                        South Carolina
                    's experience with the irrepressible iconoclast Thomas Cooper there was no
                    desire to 
                  
                     11 Tewksbury, Founding of American Colleges and
                                Universities, 169-207; Merle Curti and Vernon Carstensen, University
                                of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                , A History, 1848-1925 (2 vols., 
                        Madison, Wisconsin
                     , 1949), I, 21.
                  
                     12 For instance, in 
                                Iowa
                            , George F. Magoun, "State University— Scientific and
                            Agricultural School," 
                        
                                    Iowa
                                 Farmer and Horticulturist (
                                Burlington
                            ; 
                                Des Moines
                            , 
                                Iowa
                            , 1853-1862), I (1853-1854), 217-219; and Governor James W. Grimes inaugural
                            address in Benjamin F. Sham-baugh (ed.), Messages and Proclamations of the
                                Governors of 
                                    Iowa
                                
                      (7 vols., 
                                Iowa City
                            , 
                                Iowa
                            , 1903-1905), II, 8-9.
                  
                     13 Thwing, A History of Higher Education in America,
                            245-246; Tewksbury, Founding of American Colleges and Universities,
                            176-177, 188-193; E. Merton Coulter, College Life in the Old South (
                                New York
                            , 1928), 196-206; Autobiography of Andrew Dickson White (2
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1907), I, 271-272, 279-280. In the "denominational era" the
                            control of state universities reversed the German Reformation test of cuius
                                regio eius religio for, the dominant sect largely determined the control.
               
                     risk as mild a liberal as Francis Lieber.14
                    Holy orders, however, did not assure acceptance if there were deviations from the ideas and conduct
                    locally regarded as orthodox, as Horace Holley in 
                        Kentucky
                     and Tappan in 
                        Michigan
                     found to their sorrow.15
            
            Alike for state and church institutions, the ideal leadership was a theologian renowned for effective
                    support of the faith once for all delivered. When in 1869 Tappan's successor resigned to
                    head a new university of his church, the preferred candidates were distinguished theologians. The
                    leading professor of the medical college, prominent alumni, and business and professional board
                    members were all agreed that a lay scholar would be wholly unacceptable to the public. The main
                    qualifications of James B. Angell as a second choice were that he had been licensed to preach and
                    that he had been regarded as a strong moral influence as president of the University of 
                        Vermont
                    . For his successor at 
                        Vermont
                     a big name theologian was widely though vainly sought.16 In notable
                    cases, indifferent to theological erudition, fiery evangelists assumed the head of a public
                    university with the revivalist zeal and relentless purpose of a Lyman Beecher, a Mary Lyon, or a
                    Henry Durant."
            To support the clerical president key faculty positions were filled by fellow clergymen, whose
                    selection was not infrequently the occasion of bitter sectarian rivalry. Noah Porter explained and
                    justified the predominance of clerical professors by the facts that most of the well trained were in
                    that profession, and that it was most akin to teaching in its reconciliation to small pay and
                    laborious service.18 In addition 
                  
                     14 Dumas Malone, The Public Life of Thomas Cooper,
                                1783-1839 (
                        New Haven, Connecticut
                     , 1926), 259-278, 333-367;
                            Frank Freidel, Francis Lieber, Nineteenth-Century Liberal
                                    (
                        Baton Rouge, Louisiana
                     , 1947), 281-286; Clement Eaton, Freedom of Thought in the Old South (
                                Durham
                            , 
                                North Carolina
                            , 1940), 287.
                  
                     15 Eaton, Freedom of Thought in the Old South, 288;
                            Mabel H. Pollitt, A Biography of James Kennedy Patterson
                                    (
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , 1925), 71-73; Charles M. Perry, Henry Philip Tappan, Philosopher and University President
                                    (
                        Ann Arbor, Michigan
                     , 1933), passim.
                  
                     16 Wilfred B. Shaw (ed.), From 
                                    Vermont
                                 to 
                                    Michigan
                                : Correspondence of James Burrill Angell, 1869-1871
                                    (
                        Ann Arbor, Michigan
                     , 1936), passim. For other
                            typical cases see, Curti and Carstensen, University of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                     , I, 236-246, 276; Coulter, College Life in the Old
                            South, 25.
                  
                     17 Coulter, College Life in the Old South, 197,
                            209-214; Curti and Carstensen, University of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                     , I, 65, 180, 184, 294; James A. Woodburn, History of
                                Indiana University, 1820-1902 (n.p., 1940), 61; Eaton, Freedom of
                                Thought in the Old South, 208, 288-289.
                  
                     18 Noah Porter, The American Colleges and the American
                                Public (
                        New Haven, Connecticut
                     , 1870), 241. For typical
                            state university faculties see, The Reminiscences of James Burrill Angell (
                                New York
                            , 1912), 121, 228-233; Curti and Carstensen observed that the early faculty of
                            the University of 
                                Wisconsin
                             was "better trained in theology than in other disciplines."
                                University of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                     , I, 184. A president of a leading state university in the Middle West
                            felt that the only way to keep the institution Christian on a nonsectarian basis was to have
                            a balanced representation of the leading denominations on the staff. Jonas Viles, The University of 
                                    Missouri
                                : A Centennial History (
                        Columbia, Missouri
                     ,
                            1939), 180-181; Pollitt, A Biography of James Kennedy Patterson,
                        147n.
               
                     there was the parental feeling that the moral and spiritual
                    welfare of their boys was safer under such guidance. This confidence was usually justified. A
                    critical editor complained in the 1830's that the faculty of the University of 
                        Georgia
                     was too much concerned with religious activities, and the next decade an ineffective
                    effort was made to forbid staff members from holding outside pastorates.19 As
                    late as 1893 the incoming president of the University of 
                        Oregon
                     complained that the campus had the "atmosphere of a petty theological seminary
                    manned by superannuated ministers."20
            
            With such administrators and teachers the charges of irreligion flung occasionally by the spokesmen
                    of the disgruntled sects were lacking in substantiating fact. In addition to personal supervision
                    and exhortation, attendance on revivals and camp meetings was at times encouraged by the suspension
                    of college work. Courses like Evidences of Christianity and Moral Philosophy were required with no
                    thought of the violation of religious freedom. Ministerial students were welcomed and aided by the
                    suspension or reduction of fees.21
            
            By the fifties the narrow range and formal method made all of the colleges, whether private or
                    public, increasingly out of touch with the realities of the industrializing nation. To meet this
                    need there was a persistent, if not always well-reasoned agitation for a new type of college that
                    would combine technical with general training in a manner to be most widely available. Progressive
                    educators like Eliphalet Nott at Union, Francis Wayland at Brown, Edward Hitchcock at 
                        Amherst
                    , and Wilbur Fisk at Wesleyan sought to enrich and diversify their offerings to meet or
                    at least to appease the changing demand. Stronger institutions like 
                        Harvard
                     and Yale went still further in establishing distinct schools of science. But such
                    efforts were too little and too late to satisfy the educational 
                  
                     19 Coulter, College Life in the Old South, 209-210.
                  
                     20 Henry D. Sheldon, History of the University of 
                                    Oregon
                                
                      (
                        Portland, Oregon
                     , 1940), 63.
                  
                     21 Godbold, The Church College of the Old South,
                            178-184; Coulter, College Life in the Old South, 210-213; Curti and
                            Carstensen, University of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                     , I, 65, 182; George Thomas White Patrick, An
                                Autobiography (
                                Iowa City
                            , 
                                Iowa
                            , 1947), 42.
               
                     reformers of the period; nothing short of a new type college
                    would suffice.22
            
            The resulting land-grant institutions with their emphasis upon scientific method and study and their
                    practical objectives might well have been expected to secure, at long last, that complete separation
                    of state functions from all sectarian direction and inhibition that state constitutions seemed to
                    contemplate. Such undoubtedly would have been the result had the "new education"
                    been directed from the first by leaders in science and technology rather than, as it most
                    characteristically was, by social reformers and popular agitators. Consequently the new higher
                    education in the initial years took not so much the form of polytechnic universities as of
                    peoples' or farmers' colleges. And the people were still strongly attached to
                    traditional religious views. To many of its zealous protagonists the industrial movement had the
                    spirit of a religious crusade. At one inaugural it was declared that the college was open to
                    "all of God's people" and at another to "all worthy comers
                    …. It knows not male nor female, Barbarian, Scythian, bond nor free." A member
                    of the board of a land-grant university, reflecting the popular concern at the indifference of the
                    president to daily chapel and the disappointment at the slow development of the agricultural work,
                    declared that "the institution has already got as far as possible from God and
                        agriculture."23
            
            For their part, the old-line colleges, confronted by rising standards, increasing costs, and
                    declining enrollments, hastened with no sense of impropriety but with full assumption of
                    preparedness to provide the instruction in applied science, to seek all or a share of their
                    state's federal subvention. As a result of the ensuing legislative contests, in a number of
                    states the location was made within or in affiliation with sectarian institutions. In certain others
                    new state colleges or universities were erected on the foundations of religious establishments. In
                    no case, it may be said, did the sectarian contenders lose their prize without persistent and often
                    bitter legislative 
                  
                     22 The "industrial movement" in higher education
                            awaits adequate historical appraisal. Earle D. Ross, Democracy's
                                College: The Land-Grant Movement in the Formative Stage (
                                Ames
                            , 
                                Iowa
                            , 1942), chapter II gives a preliminary survey.
                  
                     23 Thomas C. Mendenhall (ed.), History of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 State University (3 vols., 
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     ,
                            1920-1926), I, 76-77, 108; 
                                Iowa
                             State Agricultural College, Addresses Delivered at Opening (
                                Davenport
                            , 
                                Iowa
                            , 1869), 11; Theodore C. Blegen, The Land Lies Open
                                    (
                        Minneapolis, Minnesota
                     , 1949), 187-188. For the religious spirit
                            of the movement, see also Public Exercises at the Laying of the Corner Stone of
                                the People's College (
                                New York
                            , 1858).
               
                     and journalistic battles.24 It is highly
                    significant that during the struggle for the grant and in the formative period the charges of
                    materialism and godlessness were not made against the type and content of education proposed, with
                    its wide departure from the "disciplines" of the traditional college, when
                    conducted under sectarian auspices where, supposedly, the students would be immunized from the
                    dangers of vocational training by state funds. Evidently the menace of the new education was only in
                    its conduct and control by state agencies.
            Under whatever control, the A and M colleges gave no valid grounds for such fears. The separate
                    colleges in particular, being usually in rural areas and especially close to the constituencies,
                    were unusually responsive to prevailing moral and social standards and usages. With all the emphasis
                    upon science and scientists, clerical leaders still seemed the most available and, as in the past,
                    ecclesiastical as well as party and academic politics at times entered into the selection. The
                    versatility demanded by the federal-state campus relationships was suggested in the characterization
                    of a land-grant president who became a notable pioneer in the federal extension service:
                    "He could run a Methodist revival, an educational campaign, a domestic economy class, or an
                    agricultural and fine stock meeting with equal success."25 Lay
                    presidents were expected to conduct chapel, preach the baccalaureate sermon, and make appropriate
                    addresses to religious gatherings. Those who were deficient in these duties, whatever their other
                    attainments, were usually regarded as misfits.26 In launching 
                  
                     24 Ross, Democracy's College, chapter IV
                            summarizes the agitations and adjustments in the different states.
                  
                     25 Rodney Cline, The Life and Work of Seaman A.
                            Knapp (
                        Nashville, Tennessee
                     , 1926), 22-23; W. Stull Holt (ed.),
                            "Historical Scholarship in the 
                                United States
                            , 1876-1901 as Revealed in the Correspondence of Herbert B. Adams,"
                            Johns Hopkins University Studies in Historical and Political Science (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1882-), LVI (1938), 623; Charles R. Williams (ed.), Diary and
                                Letters of 
                                    Rutherford
                                 Birchard Hayes (5 vols., 
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     ,
                            1922-1926), V, 94; Ross, Democracy's College, 104-105. All of the
                            pioneer land-grant institutions had ministerial presidents during the formative years. The
                            manuscript sermons of the first president of the 
                                Iowa
                             Agricultural College, Dr. Adonijah S. Welch, who had had a varied career as
                            teacher and administrator, prospector in the gold rush, business promoter, and 
                                United States
                             senator, reflect a strong religious conviction illustrated and verified by
                            practical experience with life situations.
                  
                     26 Holt, "Historical Scholarship in the 
                                United States
                            ," in Johns Hopkins University Studies in Historical and
                                Political Science, LVI, 619-620, 625-626; Harvey W. Wiley, An
                                Autobiography (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1930), 161-162; Solon J. Buck (ed.), William Watts
                                Folwell: The Autobiography and Letters of a Pioneer of Culture
                                    (
                        Minneapolis, Minnesota
                     , 1933), 195; Oscar W. Firkins, Cyrus Northrop, A Memoir (
                        Minneapolis, Minnesota
                     , 1925), 152-160, 474-505; Mendenhall, History
                                of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 State University, I, 76-77.
               
                     a number of the colleges on sectarian foundations ministerial
                    faculties were taken over with the plants. Naturally their ministrations to agricultural and
                    mechanical students were confined to basic subjects in which the profession continued to be
                    represented on most faculties. But regardless of department, exacting to rather captious standards
                    of conduct were maintained.27
            
            The religious life of the student was encouraged and stimulated as fully in the new as in the older
                    state universities. Compulsory chapel was generally maintained down to the era of world wars. To
                    meet legal objections which were occasionally raised, excuses were allowed for conscientious
                    objectors. Church attendance was required or strongly urged. The University of 
                        Arkansas
                     advised parents in the catalogue to provide all students with Bibles. Revivals were
                    reported from time to time and the Y's provided continued devotional opportunity. A
                    professor of mathematics at the University of 
                        Minnesota
                     in the eighties opened his classes with prayer. Compulsory manual labor, retained by
                    the "agricultural colleges" long after its limitations had been demonstrated in
                    academies and theological seminaries, was rationalized, in part, as a means of moral discipline.28 Amusements—dancing, card playing, theater going,
                    dating—followed regional standards and taboos as closely in the public as in the private
                    colleges.
            In the "agricultural era," before the transforming and disturbing impacts of the
                    new science upon industry and society, 
                  
                     27
                            Harvey W. Wiley, An Autobiography, 156-158; 
                                Iowa
                             General Assembly Report Joint Committee of Investigation
                                … 
                                    Iowa
                                 State Agricultural College (
                                Des Moines
                            , 1874), passim; Alumnus of 
                                    Iowa
                                 State College (
                                Ames
                            , 
                                Iowa
                            , 1905-), XXIV (1929), 244. There were claims at times that standards of conduct
                            were stricter in state than in church institutions. Warner Fite, "The
                            State-University Idea," Nation (
                                New York
                            , 1865-), CI (1915), 323.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Massachusetts
                             Agricultural College, Report, 1869 (
                                Boston
                            , 1870), 16; ibid., 1872 (
                                Boston
                            , 1873), 38-39; 
                                Pennsylvania
                             Agricultural College, Report, 1875 (
                                Harrisburg
                            , 1876), 5; 
                                Illinois
                             Industrial University, Report, 1884-1886 (
                                Springfield
                            , 1887), 63-64, 67-71; 
                                
                                    Aurora
                                
                            , 
                                Iowa
                             Agricultural College (
                                Ames
                            , 
                                Iowa
                            , 1873-1891), VII (September, 1879), 4 (religious statistics of student body);
                            Harrison Hale, University of 
                                    Arkansas
                                , 1871-1948 (
                                Fayetteville
                            , 
                                Arkansas
                            , 1948), 245-249; John B. Horner, "History of 
                                Oregon
                             State College, 1865-1907," 
                        
                                    Oregon
                                 Historical Quarterly (
                                Salem
                            , 1900-), XXXI (1930), 44-45; Henry Johnson, The Other Side of Main
                                Street (
                                New York
                            , 1943), 55-56. Official reports, student discussions in papers and literary
                            societies, and reminiscences for all the land-grant colleges down to the eighties reflect a
                            serious interest in religion and a conformity of the great majority, in line with the
                            prevailing sentiment of the region.
               
                     college life, as life in general for the average American, was
                    simple and trustful. Conduct was guided by the prevailing mores, motivated and controlled mainly by
                    traditional religious inhibitions and assurances. Small student bodies were governed under a
                    benevolent paternalism by the "old-time college president" who knew intimately
                    each of his youthful charges. Intellectual dissent was as rare as institutional rebellion.
            Upon this intellectual and social serenity of the old-time campus Darwinism as a scientific theory
                    and a social philosophy brought distressing unsettlement. In varying degrees the same divisions
                    arose in all the reputable institutions, ranging from unqualified supporters to unyielding
                    opponents, and the middle of the road reconcilers were always on hand.29 In
                    spite of these prevailing academic divergencies, moderated though they might be in highly
                    conservative communities, fanatical literalists and dogmatists who felt their ground slipping away
                    instituted the most immoderate and irresponsible attack upon state institutions that had thus far
                    been offered. They branded institutions seeking to establish truth regardless of the old faith and
                    traditional mores as per se irreligious. Such intolerant appeals to prejudice weakened, it was felt,
                    public confidence in their state institutions and thus limited their range of service.30
            
            Leaders of the emerging modern state universities were challenged to provide a religious worship and
                    nurture, in this 
                  
                     29 Richard Hofstadter, Social Darwinism in American
                                Thought, 1865-1915 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1944); Bert J. Loewenberg, "Darwinism Comes to America,
                            1859-1900," 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Review, XXVIII (1941-1942), 339-368; Curti and Carstensen, University of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                     , I, 227-228, 350-352; 
                                
                                    Aurora
                                
                            , 
                                Iowa
                             Agricultural College, II (August, 1874), 1-3 (scientist and theologian present
                            opposing points of view). In a sensational "exposure" of the academic
                            departure from traditional dogmas, the writer found the "blasting at the Rock of
                            Ages" alike in state and leading church universities. Harold Bolce,
                            "Blasting at the Rock of Ages," Cosmopolitan (78 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1886-1925), XLVI (1909), 665-676; "Polyglots in Temples of
                            Babel," ibid., XLVII (1909), 52-65; "Avatars of the
                            Almighty," ibid., 209-218; "Christianity in the
                            Crucible," ibid., 310-319; "Rallying Round the
                            Cross," ibid., 491-502. The changing trend of thought in private
                            colleges of contrasting types is traced in the autobiography of John M. Mecklin, My Quest for Freedom (
                                New York
                            , 1945).
                  
                     30
                            Autobiography of Andrew Dickson White, I, 315, 422-426; James B. Angell,
                            "The State Universities of the West," State Aid to Higher
                                Education, in Johns Hopkins University Studies in Historical and
                                Political Science, Extra Volume XVIII (1898), 33-34; Edmund J. James,
                            "Function of the State University," Science, New Series (
                                New York
                            , 1895-), XXII (1905), 618; Johnson, The Other Side of Main
                            Street, 53; 
                                
                                    Aurora
                                
                            , 
                                Iowa
                             Agricultural College, VII (August, 1879), 8, XVI (April, 1887), 42; William A.
                            Brown, The Church in America (
                                New York
                            , 1922), 310.
               
                     secularizing age, that was free from sectarian biases and
                    inhibitions. In the growing movements for liberal nonsectarian principles and for
                    interdenominational co-operation the state institutions pioneered. The first college
                    Y.M.C.A.'s were established at the universities of 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Michigan
                     and state institutions became focal points for the society's great national
                    and international undertakings. Especially determining were John R. Mott's leadership at
                    Cornell and F.N.D. Buchman's at 
                        Pennsylvania
                     State. Endowed pulpits such as the Sage Chapel at Cornell brought to the campuses the
                    world's most intellectual and socially-minded religious thinkers.31
            
            In the social gospel crusade, which may be regarded as the religious phase of the large progressive
                    movement, social scientists in leading state universities were in the vanguard. As a whole their
                    showing was better than that of the children of light in many of the denominational centers of
                    learning, among whom, in too many cases, there were negative or defensive responses to this cyclical
                    reformation of current evils in society. The test of orthodoxy now appeared to turn on social and
                    economic rather than theological departures from the old landmarks.32
            
            By this time the problem of religious ministration and instruction in state supported institutions
                    was being faced more realistically and constructively both by alert university leaders and by
                    understanding churchmen. Ambitious executives of expanding universities had long recognized the
                    incompleteness, 
                  
                     31 Clarence P. Shedd, Tivo Centuries of Student Christian
                                Movements (
                                New York
                            , 1934), 94-104, 289, 319; Patton, Jefferson, Cabell, and the
                                University of 
                                    Virginia
                                
                     , 318-320; Basil Mathews, John R. Mott, World Citizen (
                                New York
                            , 1934); Wayland F. Dunaway, History of the 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 State College (
                                Pennsylvania
                             State College, 1946), 382-385; Autobiography of Andrew Dickson
                                White, I, 402-407.
                  
                     32 The historian of the movement—Charles H. Hopkins, The Rise of the Social Gospel in American Protestantism, 1865-1915
                                    (
                        New Haven, Connecticut
                     , 1940), cites the specific contributions
                            of at least fifteen such state college and university leaders. The influence of two
                            outstanding pioneers, John Bascom and Richard T. Ely are shown in Curti and Carstensen, University of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                     , and Ely's autobiography, Ground Under Our
                            Feet (
                                New York
                            , 1938). Certain skeptical and rationalistic thinkers, recognizing the essential
                            place of religious forces in social control and motivation, gave full hearted support to the
                            economic and social reforms of the movement. For a notable example see, Edward A. Ross, Seventy Years of It: An Autobiography (
                                New York
                            , 1936), 115-119. The participation of liberal economists is evaluated in
                            Hofstadter, Social Darwinism, 88. For the conservative opposition to the
                            extending regulation of business see, Cheyney, History of the University of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                
                     , 368. Perhaps the most ultra-conservative academic theologian was
                            Chancellor James R. Day of 
                                Syracuse
                             University. See his books, The Raid on Prosperity (
                                New York
                            , 1907), My Neighbor the Workingman (
                                New York
                            , 1920).
               
                     according to the German model, which the omission of a faculty
                    of theology involved but the obstacles were serious.33 The strong secularizing
                    trend of the period, in sharp contrast to earlier days, imposed impassable bars to any instruction
                    involving a suspicion of doctrinal controversy. Arguments by educationists and psychologists that
                    religion as such could be taught with full scientific objectivity,34 were most
                    unconvincing for a background of unlimited sectarian self-determination, and immoderate not to say
                    ruthless rivalry. Religious education as a distinct field of teaching could find a place in the
                    rising schools of education to which the humble departments of didactics and pedagogy had evolved.
                    Content subjects, however, were limited to highly generalized rather incidental treatment in
                    literature, history, philosophy, sociology, and, at times somewhat pathologically, in economics.35
            
            From their side the sectarian groups were forced to accept the fait accompli of an
                    ever-increasing proportion of their youth and of their lay leadership in the student bodies and
                    faculties of great universities, owned and operated by the states. To indict the moral and spiritual
                    influences of institutions so constituted would obviously be a reflection upon themselves. Here and
                    there echoes of the old benighted days of bigoted rivalry were sounded but they were ignored or
                    promptly suppressed.36 Clearly the counsel of mutual advantage as well as of
                    enlightened liberalism was for these interests of church and state to co-operate in the most
                    effective solution, within the limits of the tolerance of the general public and 
                  
                     33 Daniel C. Gilman, University Problems in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1898), 177; James, "Function of the State University," Science, N.S., XXII, 617; Richard H. Jesse, "The Function of the
                            State University," in National Educational Association Journal of
                                Proceedings and Addresses of the Fortieth Annual Meeting … 1901 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1901), 606; Wallace N. Stearns, "Religious Education in the State
                            Universities," in National Educational Association Journal of
                                Proceedings and Addresses of the Forty-fifth Annual Meeting … 1907
                                    (
                        Winona, Minnesota
                     , 1907), 729-737; Clarence P. Shedd,
                            "Religion in State Universities," Journal of Higher
                            Education (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1930-), XII (1941), 408-417;
                            President Robert G. Sproul, University of 
                                California
                            , address of 1933, quoted in Stokes, Church and State, II,
                            623; Edward S. Boyer, Religion in the American College (
                                New York
                            , 1930), 73; President Raymond M. Hughes, 
                                Iowa
                             State College Address of the President at Opening
                            Convocations (
                                Ames
                            , 
                                Iowa
                            , 1927-1935).
                  
                     34 William H. Matlock, "Instruction in Religion in State
                            Universities," Educational Review (76 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1891-1928), XL (1910), 256-265; Jesse, "The Function of the State
                            University," in National Educational Association Journal …
                                1901, p. 606.
                  
                     35 Howard M. Jones, "Religious Education in the State
                            Universities," in Willard L. Sperry (ed.), Religion and Education (
                                Cambridge
                            , 1945), 60-64.
                  
                     36 Clarence P. Shedd, The Church Follows Its
                            Students (
                        New Haven, Connecticut
                     , 1938), 50-52.
               
                     church constituencies, that their combined wisdom indicated.
            An early partial approach was in the creation of chaplaincies with the incumbents usually alternating
                    among the leading faiths. The office of necessity was seriously limited, even when dual selections
                    were made to represent the two great branches of Christendom.37 However tolerant
                    and tactful the chaplain might endeavor to be, he was bound to be handicapped by his sectarian
                    background and at times by the unseemly denominational rivalries for the position (from which not
                    even the halls of the Congress seem to be entirely immune). At best the extent of his personal
                    counseling and devotional contacts was restricted.
            A forward step was taken in the provision of student pastors in the leading churches of the
                    university city, with more or less co-operation among them for common interests.38 The formation of clubs and foundations by the numerically significant sects gave enlarged
                    opportunity for student initiative and direct participation in programs of religious work on and off
                    the campus, including annual religious weeks. Federations of the foundations through the agency of
                    the Y's or specially constituted co-ordinating organizations brought unity at many points
                    to the available religious forces.39
            
            In addition to courses in religious education provided by many institutions, lectures and study
                    groups have been started and supervised by the denominational organizations. More 
                  
                     37 From 1829 to 1896 the University of 
                                Virginia
                             had resident chaplains whose selection rotated among the four leading
                            denominations. Prom that time the secretary of the Y was in chargé of all
                            religious activities including the selection of chapel preachers. Patton, Jefferson, Cabell, and the University of 
                                    Virginia
                                
                     , 316-317. In the seventies the president of the University of 
                                Louisiana
                             strongly urged the establishment of a triple chaplaincy: A Catholic priest, a
                            Protestant minister, and a Jewish rabbi. 
                                Louisiana
                             State University and A. and M. College, Report, 1877-78 (
                                New Orleans
                            , 1878), 43.
                  
                     38 Jacob Van der Zee, "History of Presbyterianism in 
                                Iowa City
                            ," 
                        
                                    Iowa
                                 Journal of History and Politics (
                                Iowa City
                            , 1903-), 570-576; Francis Kelsev, "Religion in State Universities and
                            Church Colleges," Atlantic Monthly (
                                Boston
                            , 1857-), LXXX (1897), 826-832; William A. Scott, "The Religious
                            Situation in the State University," Biblical World, New Series
                            (54 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1893-1920), XXVI (July, 1905), 20-29; Eugene Gassier, "The Catholic
                            Student at the State University," Catholic World (
                                New York
                            , 1865-), CLII (1940), 210-215; Dunaway, History of the 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 State College, 423-424.
                  
                     39 Shedd, The Church Follows Its Students traces the
                            main developments by periods and states in considerable detail. On page 175 there is a list
                            of the main foundations. Edward W. Blakeman, The Administration of Religion in
                                Universities and Colleges: Personnel (
                        Ann
                                Arbor, Michigan
                     , 1942),
                            is a convenient work of reference to that date. For organization and activities at one
                            university see, Student Religious Attitudes at the University of 
                                    Texas
                                
                      (
                                Austin
                            , 
                                Texas
                            , 1933).
               
                     adequate have been Bible or religious schools established by
                    one or a group of denominations in affiliation with the university.40 In an age
                    of strong secular trend and a high degree of consciousness by minority groups, from pietistic to
                    atheistic, the foundations and the affiliated schools have proved the most rewarding. The great
                    needs have been to attract devoted scholars both as pastors and teachers who could stimulate
                    interest and provide courses on a truly university level, that would enable students to develop
                    their religious thinking in this as in their other areas of study, and to secure adequate endowments
                    for a project bridging so measurably the gap between church and state functions. With all the
                    limitations under which they have operated, the foundations and religious schools have provided the
                    fullest realization to the present of Jefferson's plan for sectarian participation. As
                    surveys have clearly shown, the provisions for religious training and experience at the average
                    state university compare favorably with those at the church directed or related institutions. As
                    Dean Willard L. Sperry has judiously concluded,41 the traditional antithesis
                    between the pious church college and the secularized state university is, in the modern age, quite
                    unrealistic.
            This tendency toward common attitudes and reactions in religion has been characteristic of the
                    growing uniformity in the realm of higher education. Except for the more doctrinally devoted and
                    ritualistically confirmed faiths, the relations of educational institutions significantly
                    redesignated, "church-related" 
                  
                     40 Convenient summaries of programs of the different institutions may
                            be foimd in the following compilations: Raymond H. Leach, "Courses in Religious
                            Education in State Universities and Colleges," School and Society (
                                New York
                            ; 
                                Garrison
                            , 
                        New York; Lancaster, Pennsylvania
                     , 1915-), XXXVII (March 11, 1933), 334-335; Herbert L.
                            Searles, "The Study of Religion in State Universities," University of 
                                Iowa
                            , Studies in Character (
                                Iowa City
                            , 1928); Boyer, Religion in the American College; Shedd, The Church Follows Its Students. More critical appraisals are given by
                            Jones, "Religious Education in the State Universities," in Sperrv, Religion and Education, 68-71; Charles M. McAllister, Inside
                                the Campus (
                                New York
                            , 1948), 127, 134, 137; Stokes, Church and State, II, 626-632.
                            A brief history of the unique University of 
                                Iowa
                             experiment is M. Willard Lampe, The Story of an Idea (rev.
                            ed., 
                                Iowa City
                            , 1942).
                  
                     41 Willard L. Sperry, Religion in America (
                                Cambridge
                            , 1946), 166. Charles Kendall Adams maintained that the difference in moral
                            standards and conformities were not between state and private but large and small
                            institutions regardless of control. North American Review, CXXI, 369-370.
                            Charles F. Thwing held that "A sectarian university would be a practical
                            impossibility, as an irreligious university is a logical inconsistency." Higher Education in America, 459-460. Canon Stokes, Church
                                and State, II, 624, pays fitting tribute to the influence upon the religious
                            emphasis upon state campuses of administrators and staff members with positive religious
                            conviction and social purpose.
               
                     have become more and more distant and tenuous. At the same time
                    higher education in general has come increasingly to have a public interest. Some of the relations
                    mark extensions of early practices. As already noted, land grants and other aid has been given to
                    private colleges by the federal and state governments. For many years state aid for teacher training
                    has provided a welcome nucleus of support. The first state agricultural experiment station was
                    started in a pioneer church college, Wesleyan University, under the direction of an alumnus, Wilbur
                    0. Atwater, who was later to render unique service in the 
                        United States
                     Department of Agriculture. During the world wars men's colleges and some of
                    the women's were enabled to continue their programs by national subvention for the various
                    branches of training and of defense research, and in many of the endowed institutions permanent
                    departments have been established in the different branches of the service, and programs of
                    research, particularly in nuclear studies, continued.
            In a number of cases, most notably in 
                        New York
                    , state colleges or schools have been located in church-related universities. Not a few
                    moribund academic derelicts, often after trial by several different sects, have eagerly offered
                    themselves to their states. Regionally distributed branch colleges have greatly extended the
                    coverage of state universities. In strategic centers former church colleges have become
                    municipalized, and the newer "community colleges" in order to provide the services
                    desired are being publicly maintained. The wide extension of public junior colleges is bringing
                    large areas of undergraduate instruction under public control and direction.
            The much controverted provosal for federal aid to all accredited institutions of higher learning,
                    with all the possibilities of standardization, is bitterly and indignantly spurned by some who feel
                    that they have attained to a reasonable measure of security. But most boards and presidents, who as
                    the final GI backlog is rolling away look forward to indefinitely increasing deficits, rationalize
                    it as only another essential function of the welfare state. Whatever the feeling about subsidies,
                    all educational interests, like all other service groups, are deeply concerned with the matter of
                    tax exemption and adjustment.
            No less in voluntary association modern academic activities and usages have involved co-operative
                    relationships at many points. Governing bodies have entered into affiliations  for the interchange of credits and degrees.42
                    Lectureships and professorships have been exchanged. Graduate study by students and staff members
                    has created bonds of common interest between state universities and colleges of the state and
                    region, as has membership in state, regional, and national professional societies. Educational
                    experiments sponsored by national societies and foundations have been carried on jointly by state
                    and private universities and colleges. Key specialists in the universities have had their basic
                    training in church colleges and an increasing number of ecclesiastical dignitaries has been drawn
                    from the alumni of state colleges and universities.
            From the world war era the religious, as well as the social reactions and standards of students of
                    state and of church institutions have been increasingly similar. Neo-ration–alism and
                    skepticism have had the same manifestations.43 No less religious attitudes and
                    activities have followed the same general pattern. State foundations have sent forth their gospel
                    teams and engaged in varied community services. Workers, general and special, have been recruited
                    for the foreign mission field by particular and combined groups. Representatives of the state
                    institutions have joined with their colleagues from the church colleges in student religious
                    movements both denominational and interdenominational and on all levels from local to international.
                    Church college graduates come to the university and state college for advanced technical and
                    professional training while the state college graduates go in increasing numbers to the theological
                    seminaries.
            Such enlightened co-operation arising from a recognition of common conditions and problems, has
                    brought an increasing realization of Senator Justin S. Morrill's premature and 
                  
                     42 An early case of such relations was the arrangement between 
                                Massachusetts
                             Agricultural College and 
                                Boston
                             University. 
                                Massachusetts
                             Agricultural College, Report, 1875 (
                                Boston
                            , 1876), 14-15, 99-100; Daniel L. Marsh, "Higher Education in 
                                Massachusetts
                            —Seventy-Five Years Ago and To-Day," School and
                                Society, XLVII (June 11, 1938), 745-746. The territorial charter of the University
                            of 
                                Minnesota
                             provided that any college within the territory might become a branch of the
                            university. Theodore C. Blegen, The Land Lies Open, 158. In most states in
                            later days such an offer would have brought many acceptances.
                  
                     43 A society called the "Damned Souls" with the
                            avowed aim "to prove the necessity of atheism to abolish belief in God and all
                            religions based on that belief" was started at a church university with orthodox
                            traditions, although it was announced that chapters were contemplated in leading state and
                            private universities. "Atheists in the Bud," Literary
                            Digest (125 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1890-1938), XCIX (April 10, 1926), 29-30. On the spread of such societies
                            alike in state and private institutions see, "The Spread of Atheism in the
                            Schools," in ibid., XCIV (July 2, 1927), 28-29.
               
                     wishful assurance in 1872 that there could be "no
                    jealousy in the Republic of Letters," as well as added confirmation to the admonition of a
                    great veteran scientist and educator a half century ago, that a state's academic
                    institutions should direct their resources and energies "to fight ignorance, not to fight
                    each other."44
            
            This sketchy survey of an expansive and involved theme illustrates and confirms certain
                    characteristic American attitudes and tendencies in education and religion: the prevalence in the
                    pioneer nation of traditional and customary sanctions over formal legal systems; the popular
                    persistence of authoritarian beliefs, doctrinal and ethical, with a gradual, hardly attained,
                    reasoned tolerance; the peculiar sensitivity and responsiveness of state institutions of higher
                    education to the prevailing public opinion of region, state, and community; and the marked waning,
                    during the past generation, of sectarian influence in education with a corresponding trend toward
                    public provision and direction of higher as well as of elementary and secondary education,45 with all the problems of adjustment,–ideological and social, that
                    the change involves. For while the lessening of sectarian influence has made the older conflict
                    anacronistic, the need and responsibility for religious ministration and instruction remain in
                    magnified extent and complexity.
            
               
                  44
                        Congressional Globe, 42 Cong., 3 Sess., 40; Andrew D. Rodgers, Liberty Hyde Bailey (
                     Princeton,
                                New Jersey
                  , 1950), 310. For early
                        expressions of the same sentiment see, Shaw, 
                     
                                Vermont
                             to 
                                Michigan
                            
                  , 110; Richard T. Ely, "State Universities," Cosmopolitan, XIX (1895), 652-653; Edmund J. James, "The Relation of the
                        Church to Higher Education in the 
                            United States
                        ," National Educational Association Journal of Proceedings,
                            1904 (
                     Winona, Minnesota
                  , 1904), 68-83. For recent affirmations,
                        McAllister, Inside the Campus, 80-81; President James B. Conant, quoted in
                        Edgar W. Knight, What College Presidents Say (
                     Chapel Hill, North
                            Carolina
                  , 1940), 101-104.
               
                  45 President Conant at the inauguration of President Edmund E. Day of
                        Cornell University in 1927 expressed the deliberate conclusion that during the next century
                        "university education in this republic will be largely in the hands of tax-supported
                        institutions. As they fare, so fares the cultural and intellectual life of the American
                        people." Quoted in Knight, What College Presidents Say, 103. An
                        evidence of this trend is in the expansion of technological state colleges into full state
                        universities in the Northeast, the home of the endowed university.
            
         
         
         
            Mark Twain Lectures in Indiana
            
               Paul Fatout*
            When Mark Twain took to the lecture circuit to recoup losses incurred in the sale of the Buffalo Express in 1871, he appeared in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on the night of January 1, 1872. During his tour he had abandoned the subject of
                    Artemus Ward in favor of "Passages From Roughing It," which, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel remarked, had been "highly spoken of as a happy blending of
                    humor, sentiment, and instruction."1 Advance publicity in the local Evening News described the lecturer as "the noted humorist and
                        author,"2 and in The People as "this
                    renowned gentleman."3
            
            Under the auspices of the Y.M.C.A., he spoke at Association Hall, formerly the Exchange Theater on north 
                        Illinois
                     Street, between 
                        Washington
                     and Market. The theater, according to one contemporary, W. R. Holloway, was a lively
                    emporium of earthy entertainment, which "did pretty well with
                    ‘minstrels’ and dances of doubtful decency."4 One
                    notice in the Sentinel advertised: "First night of the great Buries[q]ue
                    Opera of ‘Oh Hush,’ with all the original music. The cheapest place of
                    amusement in the city."5 Then the Christian Association bought the
                    building in 1870, and promptly "emptied the theatre, ballet girls,
                    ‘can-can’ and ‘oil room’ into the street."6
            
            When the beefy burlesque queens were thrown out, the smell of grease paint was replaced by the odor
                    of sanctity. Still, though owned by a religious organization, the place was not precisely a church;
                    Mark Twain said that he disliked to lecture in a church because people were afraid to laugh there.
                    In the 1870's piety was plentiful and exceedingly solemn.
            He had acquired some reputation by reason of his "Jumping Frog" story, the earlier 
                        California
                     lectures, and especially by the popularity of Innocents Abroad
                    (1869), but he was not 
                  
                     * Paul Fatout is a member of the department of English at
                            Purdue University, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Sentinel, January 1, 1872.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Evening News, January 1, 1872.
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, The People, December 31, 1871.
                  
                     4 W. R. Holloway, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                . A Historical and Statistical Sketch of the Railroad City (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1870), 152.
                  
                     5
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Sentinel, September 17, 1868.
                  
                     6 Holloway, 
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                            , 152. What the "oil room" was I cannot discover. Was it perhaps a
                            sort of bar where performers and stage door Johnnies got oiled?
               
                     yet the famous character that the twentieth century would
                    regard as an international institution. Equally well known, if not more so, on the busy lecture
                    circuit of the seventies were numerous divines, humorists, and miscellaneous authorities on
                    phrenology and life. The passion for improvement was so fervid that mental and spiritual
                    enlightenment were just around the corner, where, on almost any evening, the world famous Dr.
                    Soandso was sure to have hired a hall.
            Emerson was an industrious lecturer, who spoke in 
                        Indianapolis
                     twice, in 1863 and 1866. Josh Billings, Bill Nye, and Petroleum V. Nasby made good
                    newspaper copy, the late Artemus Ward was useful for a reminiscent column, and the name of Olive
                    Logan, a roving talker who flitted from coast to coast, frequently appeared in
                    newspapers—including those of 
                        Indianapolis
                    —from 
                        New York
                     to 
                        San Francisco
                    .7 Many years later Mark Twain was still sufficiently annoyed by her
                    popularity to give her some two pages of derogatory comment in his Autobiography.
                    He concluded that "She was merely a name and some rich and costly clothes
                        …."8
            
            Nevertheless she and others were such warm competition that in 1872 he was far from being the
                    unchallenged front page celebrity he became thirty years afterward. His arrival in 
                        Indianapolis
                     caused no furore, and no stampede of reporters eager to broadcast his views on anything
                    in the world, or out of it. As news he was a negligible item compared to the extensive list of New
                    Year's Day calls and at-homes noted at great length in the city press.
            Only one 
                        Indianapolis
                     paper, the Journal, covered the lecture, giving about a third of a
                    column on page four to "The matchless, indescribable, whimsical, and intrepid humorist
                    yclept Mark Twain," who "spoke his piece in the presence of a large, refined, and
                    very appreciative audience, with the single exception of one young lady, who looked on mournfully
                        
                  
                     7 Typical of the lavish praise showered upon her is the full column in
                            the 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, December 25, 1868, reprinted from the 
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune: "An intellectual, brilliant, handsome woman …
                            she dresses wisdom in the robes of wit; quickens all that is fine in the minds and
                            temperaments of her hearers; imparts to life that warm glow of enjoyment which burns up and
                            destroys the chaff of the commonplace …. Miss Olive Logan, who spoke last night
                            at Steinway Hall on ‘
                                Paris
                            —City of Luxury’ … showed herself to be a
                            diamond worthy of the richest setting."
                  
                     8
                            Mark Twain's Autobiography (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1924), I, 158-160.
               
                     while her neighbors were convulsed with laughter."9 Since the reporter, with that irritating vagueness common to old-fashioned
                    journalism, does not identify the lugubrious young lady, the reader wishes for a modern newsman, who
                    would surely have got her name and address, not to speak of her opinions on a variety of matters,
                    from politics to eternity.
            "Mr. Twain," the Journal goes on, "introduced himself,
                    as is his usual custom, with a touching encomium upon his high moral, intellectual and social
                    qualities, being anxious, as he said, ‘to get in all the facts,’ which a
                    stranger might not be able to do, however good his intentions might be." The reporter was
                    amused by the story of the Mexican plug, and he thought the description of Lake Tahoe so fine that
                    it "would have been applauded to the echo if the audience could have suppressed its
                    apprehension that the story would end humorously." Mark Twain had met audiences that
                    mistook his seriousness for humor, but here was one prepared to accept the serious note, yet was
                    fearful of being taken in. As he discovered himself, a humorist has difficulty convincing his
                    listeners that he is in dead earnest.
            How he passed his time in town and how he weathered the reception of the local committee are unknown,
                    since journalists of those days were indifferent to human interest and to minor facts. The size of
                    the audience is not stated, nor are there any interviews, names of committeemen, or any details of
                    how the distinguished guest was entertained before and after the performance. His was merely another
                    talk by one of a continual parade of talkers. Still, the affair apparently went off well, even
                    though The People did enter a mild demurrer in its remark: "It is the
                    decided opinion of all we have heard speak of Mark Twain's lecture that it read better than
                    it was spoken."10 Mark Twain had no doubts about its being a howling
                    success. To James Redpath, manager of the lecture bureau, he wrote on January 2: "Had a
                    splendid time with a splendid audience in 
                        Indianapolis
                     last night—a perfectly jammed house, just as I have had all the time out
                        here."11
            
            On the night of January 2 he gave the same lecture in 
                        Logansport
                     at the Opera House, again under the auspices of 
                  
                     9
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, January 2, 1872.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., January 7, 1872.
                  
                     11 Albert Bigelow Paine (ed.), Mark Twain's
                                Letters (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1917), I, 193.
               
                     the Christian Associations. The Democratic
                    Pharos, promising– "Fun for the million …. Don't miss
                        it,"12 reprinted an article from the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune which described him as "a youngish looking man of perhaps
                    thirty-five, not handsome, but having a bright intelligent look, and an eye with a humorous twinkle
                    that puts him at once en rapport with an audience. There is nothing finical about
                    his style of dress. He is cleanshaven, and his manner of wearing his hair, which is abundant, shows
                    that he is his own tonsorial artist."13
            
            Another jammed house greeted him warmly, but the approval of 
                        Logansport
                     was not unanimous. The Pharos printed a short, perfunctory paragraph
                    about "a large and appreciative audience," which "frequently
                    applauded" a "lecture … well worth the time and money expended by our
                        citizens,"14 but The Sun was not amused.15 In a caloric half column it roasted the lecturer to a rich and crispy brown,
                    beginning with "his appearance upon the stage, walking with a loose, shambling gait, and an
                    inconceivably awkward manner. In personal appearance he is not very impressive, but looks thin and
                    weazened [sic], as if he had grown up amid the sand and alkali of
                    Nevada."
            Sourly it observed that "no man not insane enough to be a fit candidate for a lunatic
                    as(s)ylum, or who meant to be sarcastic, would dignify the performance by calling it a
                    lecture." Manner and style were "those of a very poor clown," the words
                    "magnificent" and "commonplace" were overworked, and though the
                    audience laughed heartily at first, "in a few moments the laughing was confined to the
                    boys." The habit of pausing after a supposedly witty remark was "very thoughtful
                    … for, if it had not been for that, more than half the time they [the audience] would
                    have failed in discovering the place where the laugh came in. His anecdotes and witiicisms [sic] were mostly old and stale."
            The Sun's critic must have been a dour fellow, for he had not a single
                    good word to say beyond tepid praise for the lecturer's extravagance, but even there
                    "he falls far below J. Proctor Knott, who excels him in extravagant and absurd descriptive
                    powers as far as an ocean steamer does a tea-pot 
                  
                     12
                            
                                Logansport
                            , Indiana, The Democratic Pharos, December 27, 1871.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., January 3, 1872.
                  
                            14
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     15
                            
                                Logansport
                            , Indiana, The Sun, January 4, 1872.
               
                     in motive pewer [sic] …. as a
                    lecturer, Mark Twain is a ‘magnificent’ fizzle, or a first-class
                    humbug."
            There was stern reproof for "wit … of a low order, both as to quality and
                    matter," and the Washoe reminiscing was dismissed as "neither moral, elevating or
                    instructive." It was absolutely worthless "to improve and elevate the moral and
                    intellectual tone of society …. Does his picturing of Jack Harris, with his coarse
                    allusions, and his buffoonry [sic] benefit the people? If not, then, in the name
                    of society, let us have no more such performances under the auspices of the Christian
                    Associations."
            Evidently that reporter would have felt more at home under a blistering barrage of
                    hell-fire–and-damnation, or being edified by the do-gooder who made a profitable thing
                    out of platform sanctimony and uplift. Apropos of Jack Harris, the only Harris in Roughing It (Chapter XXI) voices no allusions that seem coarse nowadays; either Mark Twain
                    embroidered upon the character, or coarseness was very easily conjured out of thin air in Victorian
                    America, particularly by so self-righteous a critic as this one.
            Mark Twain was never to escape the disapproval of the long-faced gentry, who carped at him all his
                    life, not only because of frivolity and allegedly low moral tone, but also because of heretical
                    views of the human race and of Christianity. A narrowness that condemned Tom
                    Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn as unfit for children was unsparing of heterodoxy
                    and of anything that, measured by the smug requirements of the day, was considered insufficiently
                    "elevating." By 1900 perhaps a reporter might have hesitated to write so damning a
                    review as the Sun's, but in 1872 Mark Twain could and did receive
                    cavalier treatment, for he was still on probation, both in 
                        Boston
                     and the hinterland.
         
         
         
            Editor's Page
            The manuscripts preserved in the Working Men's Institute at 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, have been newly and completely arranged and classified by Professor Arthur E.
                    Bestor, Jr., of the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , under a grant from the University Research Board of the latter institution. The
                    collection constitutes an invaluable historical source on the 
                        New Harmony
                     Community (1825-27), on the activities of Robert Owen in America, on the educational
                    and scientific work of William Maclure, Thomas Say, Charles A. Lesueur, and Owen's sons,
                    Robert Dale, David Dale, and Richard, and on the organizations, business firms, and events in 
                        New Harmony
                     from the 1820's to the end of the nineteenth century. The manuscripts, now
                    classified into thirteen series, comprise over 1650 letters before 1870, a large number of diaries
                    and other personal papers, ten volumes of financial records of the 
                        New Harmony
                     Community, minutes and other records of at least a score of local organizations, over
                    130 business ledgers dating back to the late 1820's, and eighteen dockets of local justices
                    of the peace, 1835-1880. The most important parts of the collection are being microfilmed for the 
                        Illinois
                     Historical Survey of the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , which will supply positive prints to interested libraries, and which will issue in
                    mimeographed form the catalogue of the collection that is being prepared by Professor Bestor and his
                    graduate assistant.
         
         
         
            Aspects of Employment in a Changing Rural Social Structure
            
               Louis H. Orzack*
            
               
                        Monroe County
                     is situated in the limestone area of Indiana. This area is composed of all or part of
                    some six counties in the south central segment of that state. These counties are located in the only
                    portion of the state which completely escaped glaciation, a consequence of which is that the land is
                    marked by steep hills as well as by relatively flat plains.1 During the last
                    century, the extensively timbered areas in this section of the state attracted many furniture
                    manufacturing companies to the region, and, in addition, lumbering for more general purposes
                    occurred. The sale of this lumber remained a major source of income for the local population for
                    many years, until the depletion of the forest reserves and the shift of many furniture factories to
                    the Southern States forced the farmers to obtain a larger portion of their incomes from crops and
                    livestock. In time, much of the steeply-sloping land was included in the crop rotation. Erosion
                    losses became severe, and ultimately much acreage temporarily devoted to crop production had to be
                    abandoned. Most of the originally rich soil no longer remained, and in some cases even pastures
                    could not be established.2
            
            By 1933, according to the Agricultural Experiment Station,3 changes in land use
                    in the so-called marginal farm areas in southern Indiana had produced rapid depopulation of farm
                    communities, farm abandonment, tax delinquency, high tax rates, a low ratio of taxable wealth to
                    population, low farm incomes, and so on.
            On any number of agricultural indicators, 
                        Monroe County
                     and the other south central counties rank well below the rest of the state. In 1945,
                    fifty-eight per cent (694 of a total of 1,194) of the farms reporting from 
                        Monroe County
                     had farm 
                  
                     * Louis H. Orzack is an instructor in sociology at Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana. Portions of this article constituted part of a somewhat larger paper
                            delivered at the section on "Social Organization" at the twelfth annual
                            meeting of the Ohio Valley Sociological Society at
                                    
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , on April 29, 1950.
                  
                     1 F. V. Smith, The Management of Farms in the Limestone
                                Area of South-Central Indiana with Special Reference to the Provision and Utilization of
                                Pasture, in Purdue University Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin, No. 473 (
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, June, 1942), 3.
                  
                            2
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     implements and machinery worth $249 or less, as
                    compared with 26 per cent of the state as a whole (35,718 of 137,449 farms reporting)."
                    Using the total number of farm families in 1945 as a base, the number of automobiles in 1949 per one
                    hundred families in 
                        Monroe County
                     was 89 (1,982 for 2,217 families), as compared with 105 per one hundred families
                    (203,876 for 194,041 families) in the state as a whole. For trucks, in 
                        Monroe County
                    , the figure was 22 per one hundred families (485 for 2,217); in the state as a whole,
                    32 per one hundred families (62,947 for 194,041). For tractors, the 
                        Monroe County
                     figure was 26 per one hundred families (573 for 2,217), but, in the state as a whole,
                    there were 70 per one hundred families (136,142 for 194,041).5
            
            One indicator of just-getting–by on the farm is provided by the proportion of farms, among
                    all reporting, which produces primarily for household use. The 1945 figure for 
                        Monroe County
                     was 51 per cent (1,041 of a total of 2,055), but, for the state as a whole, 16 per cent
                    (27,557 of a total of 172,907). e This general pattern may be observed by using
                    many other indices as well: the overwhelming bulk of low soil productivity ratings are found in the
                    south central counties of the state; farms in southern counties in general are in much greater need
                    of liming and other fertilizers than farms in the counties to the north; the average value of farm
                    land and buildings per farm as well as the value of farm products per farm acre and the total net
                    value of taxables are much lower for the counties in the southern portion of the state than for
                    those in the northern portion.7
            
            Associated with these conditions is a high rate of farm ownership. The percentage of tenants of all
                    kinds among all farm operators for the state as a whole was 23 in 1945, but had been 28 in 1940.
                    Tenancy in 
                        Monroe County
                     was 15 per cent in 1945, and 16 per cent in 1940.8 Furthermore, in
                    1945 
                  
                     3 G. E. Young, Marginal Farm Land in Southern
                            Indiana, in Purdue University Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin, No. 376 (
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, March, 1933), 3.
                  
                     4
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Census of Agriculture, 1945: Indiana, 18, 29.
                  
                     5 Absolute figures estimated by Implement and
                            Tractor, quoted in A New and Better Guide to Sales in America's
                                Multi-Billion Dollar Farm Market (2d. ed., n.p., n.d.), 15.
                  
                     6
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Census of Agriculture, 1945: Indiana, 149, 161.
                  
                     7 Indiana Economic Council, Indiana's
                            Outlook, Bulletin No. 12 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , December, 1948).
                  
                     8
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Census of Agriculture, 1945: Indiana, 131, 134.
               
                     the average number of acres for all types of tenants was 122 in 
                        Monroe County
                    ; the average for part owners and full owners was 79.9 For 1940, the
                    relationship for the entire state between the value of farm products sold or traded per farm and the
                    percentage of farms operated by tenants has been represented by a correlation coefficient,10 r equals .89, leading to the conclusion that "in Indiana, the areas
                    of greatest distress for a generation or more have the lowest proportion of tenants."11 Interestingly enough, this relationship is not universal in farming areas.
                    According to Arthur F. Raper and Carl C. Taylor, "The value of the East North Central
                    [including Indiana and 
                  Ohio, Illinois, Michigan
               ,
                    and 
                        Wisconsin
                    ] farms and their buildings and equipment is higher when the operators are tenants than
                    when they are full owners; tenants also possess tractors and automobiles more frequently than do
                    full owners. By contrast, tenants in the East South Central states [
                  Mississippi, Alabama, Tennessee
               , and 
                        Kentucky
                    ] stand far below the full owners in these matters, while the full owners themselves
                    rank below those in the East North Central area."12
            
            A consequence of this general situation is that work off the farms has been very prevalent for the
                    disadvantaged farmers in 
                        Monroe County
                    . In 1934, forty-four per cent of all 
                        Monroe County
                     farm operators did some remunerative work not connected with their farms.13 The trend for this nonfarm work has an upward slope for the years since, although there
                    has been one slight deviation. The percentage of 
                        Monroe County
                     farmers reporting work off the farm for 1939 was 56; the percentage reporting such work
                    for 1944 was 51.14
            
            
               
                  9 Computed from 
                     
                                United States
                             Census of Agriculture, 1945: Indiana, 134.
               
                  10 Such coefficients have a value between 0 and 1.0. A high value
                        indicates a close relationship between the two variables; a low value near zero indicates little
                        relationship.
               
                  11 G. G. Quackenbush and O. G. Lloyd, Farm Tenure in Indiana
                            by Type-of–Farming Areas, in Purdue University Agricultural Experiment
                        Station Bulletin, No. 488 (
                            Lafayette
                        , Indiana, July, 1943), 16.
               
                  12 See chapter 15, "Landowners and Tenants," p. 267 of
                        Carl C. Taylor, et al., Rural Life in the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            New York
                        , 1949).
               
                  13 Of the 982 farmers who reported the nature of this off-farm work in
                        1934, nine hundred and twenty-three, or 94 per cent, reported that it was principally
                        nonagricultural work. 
                     
                                United States
                             Census of Agriculture, 1935: Indiana, 14. Data of this kind for the later
                        years are unfortunately not available.
               
                  14
                        
                     
                                United States
                             Census of Agriculture, 1945: Indiana, 46.
            
            
            This trend becomes even more striking when one examines the distribution of the local farmers by the
                    number of days per year during which they worked off the farm:
                  Table I: 
                                Monroe County
                             Farm Operators Reporting Work Off the Farm by Number of Days Worked15
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Operators
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     1934
                     
                     
                     1939
                     
                     1944
                     
                  
                  
                     Days
                     No.
                     %
                     
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                  
                  
                     1 to 24 days
                     118
                     11.1
                     }
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     25 to 49 days
                     136
                     12.8
                     }
                     92
                     7.8
                     78
                     7.2
                  
                  
                     50 to 99 days
                     248
                     23.3
                     
                     71
                     6.0
                     67
                     6.1
                  
                  
                     100 to 149 days
                     193
                     18.1
                     
                     163
                     13.8
                     65
                     5.9
                  
                  
                     150 to 199 days}
                     
                     
                     {
                     233
                     19.7
                     69
                     6.3
                  
                  
                     200 to 249 days}
                     214
                     20.1
                     {
                     274
                     23.2
                     132
                     12.1
                  
                  
                     250 days and over
                     157
                     14.7
                     
                     347
                     29.4
                     682
                     62.4
                  
                  
                     Total
                     1066
                     100.1
                     
                     1180
                     99.9
                     1093
                     100.0
                  
                The average number of days worked off the farm in 1934 was 118 (126,253 days for 1,066
                    farmers); in 1939, the average was 193 (228,329 days for 1,180 farmers); and in 1944, the average
                    was 238 (260,155 days for 1,093 farmers).16
            
            The most obvious change in off-farm work days during the period covered has to do with the number of
                    operators working 250 days or more during the year. The number of farmers engaged in nonfarm work of
                    any duration actually dropped slightly from 19391 to 1944, although in the
                    latter year there were still some 37 more farm operators in the county than in 1934. However, for
                    those who did work off their farms, 62 per cent in 1944 worked 250 days or more, a sharp increase
                    from the 29 per cent in 1939, and a still sharper increase from the 15 per cent in 1934. One might
                    speculate that the effect of the war was to increase the off-farm work year for those 
                        Monroe County
                     farmers who had previously worked off their farms for any length of time during 
                  
                     15 Figures for 1934 from (a) 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Census of Agriculture, 1935, Indiana, 14; and (b) 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Census of Agriculture, 1935: Part-Time Farming in the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 51. Figures for 1939 and 1944 from the 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Census of Agriculture, 1945, Indiana, 46.
                  
                     16 Computed from data reported in ibid.
                  
               
                     the year. It would seem probable, however, that the effect of
                    the war was not to attract additional farmers to non-farm work. In other words, those who had been
                    employed off their farms worked longer; those who had remained on their farms continued to do so.
                    That this pattern may be changing, however, is evidenced by the estimate of the 
                        Monroe County
                     Agricultural Agent that at the present time about seventy-five to eighty per cent of
                    the local farmers spend some working time off their farms during the year.17
            
            It should be apparent that a very large proportion of the income of the 
                        Monroe County
                     rural population is derived from nonagricultural sources. Unfortunately, no questions
                    as to the amount of such income have been asked in the recent past at least and no such question
                    included in the current Census of Agriculture. Income breakdowns of this type are not available from
                    the Bureau of Internal Revenue. For state income tax purposes, the farmers must divide their income
                    into two categories: that received from their sole proprietorship (their farms); and that received
                    from salary and/or wage. County breakdowns of this sort, however, have never been published and
                    apparently lie beyond the self-defined functions of the state gross income tax division. It is
                    unlikely that anything short of a complete analysis of the payroll records of local employers over a
                    period of years and thence a breakdown by place of residence of employee would provide any data on
                    the nonagricultural income of the rural population. That is beyond the intended scope of the study.
            In any event, a very large proportion of those 
                        Monroe County
                     people who in the main define themselves as farmers, and who are also thus designated
                    by the 
                        United States
                     Census Bureau, Department of Agriculture, and the Treasury Department as well as by
                    most of the local urban population, expend a good deal of their working time at work which (1) is
                    not situated on their farms and (2) is nonagricultural in character.
            The bulk of these essentially nonfarming farmers swell the labor force in 
                        Bloomington
                    , the largest industrial city in the area, or engage in work in the rurally-situated
                    limestone quarries and mills.18 This lack of conjunction of residence 
                  
                     17 Personal interview on February 18, 1950.
                  
                     18 At least one of the local plants has busses operating on regular
                            routes through the county in order to bring its workers into 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     and occupation—the coincidence of which is often
                    considered as a distinctive characteristic of farmers—is enhanced by the presence of a
                    sizable proportion of commuters in the Bloom-ington labor market.19
            
            The consequence of these conditions is that many of the usually-consulted sources of statistical
                    information are not valuable, at least if one is interested in data pertaining to the labor force in
                    the 
                        Bloomington
                     labor market. For example, the 
                        United States
                     Census of Population data are essentially organized in terms of residence, such as
                    urban and rural. In recent years, the rural population has been broken down by the census into rural
                    farm and rural nonfarm segments. The bases for this latter classification, however, do not seem to
                    be sufficiently clear to allow one to be certain of the exact nature of the population subgroups in 
                        Monroe County
                     for which breakdowns are presented. In any case, this breakdown (rural farm and rural
                    nonfarm) appears to be based more on type of residence than on occupation.20
            
            
               
                  19 According to a survey as of July, 1947, 89.8 per cent of the employees
                        of major employers in 
                            Bloomington
                         reside within 
                            Monroe County
                        . The 10.2 per cent from other counties is distributed as follows: 0.3 per cent from 
                            Brown County
                         to the east, 0.3 per cent from 
                            Morgan County
                         to the north, 1.9 per cent from 
                            Owen County
                         to the northwest, 2.9 per cent from 
                            Greene County
                         to the west, and 4.6 per cent from 
                            Lawrence County
                         to the south. This study was based on an unspecified but presumably adequate sample
                        of the major manufacturing employers in 
                            Bloomington
                        . Indiana Employment Security Division, Survey of Commuting Patterns in
                            Selected Indiana Areas. The report is mimeographed and undated.
               
                  20 Relevant definitions by the 
                            United States
                         Census are as follows: "The farm population … comprises all
                        persons living on farms, without regard to occupation …. The rural-nonfarm population
                        includes, in general, all persons living outside cities and other incorporated places having
                        2,500 inhabitants or more who do not live on farms. The rural-nonfarm population thus comprises
                        persons living in a wide variety of locations, ranging from isolated nonfarm homes in the open
                        country to small unincorporated areas adjacent to a large city. Furthermore, as between one
                        section of the country and another, this group is much less uniform in its general composition
                        than either the urban or the rural-farm population. In some States the rural-nonfarm population
                        consists mainly of the inhabitants of small manufacturing villages or of unincorporated suburban
                        areas; in other States, it may consist mainly of persons living in mining settlements; and in
                        still other States, especially some agricultural States, it is made up largely of the
                        inhabitants of small trade centers." Sixteenth Census of the 
                                United States
                            , 1940, Population, II, 8. According to Margaret J. Hagood,
                            "Because the majority of all rural-farm residents are dependent upon agriculture
                            for a livelihood, the rural-farm … population is often used as the population
                            base to which agricultural income is related. But in the last fifteen years increasing
                            numbers of farm residents, although continuing to live on farms, have
                            taken nonfarm jobs, and this trend has served to lessen the identification of the farm
                            population with agriculture." Chapter 12, "Rural Population
                            Characteristics," 221-223, in Taylor, Rural Life in the 
                                    United States
                                
                     .
               
            
            
            Thus, most available statistics reflect the occupational and other activities of persons residing in
                    a given area. Relatively few published series on the labor market as such are available.21 As seen above, however, this distinction between residence and occupation is
                    important for the local population.
            Another important qualification to the use of census data for 1940 and earlier years results from the
                    fact that the largest company did not come to 
                        Bloomington
                     until the late spring of 1940. Thus, not until the 1950 census reports are issued will
                    there be any published sources for estimating the impact of its entrance into the local area for
                    anything other than distribution of workers by employer (or employer group) and by sex.
            These latter data obtained from the 
                        Bloomington
                     office of the Indiana Employment Security Division, are as follows: 
                  Table II: Employment in 
                                Monroe County
                             for Twenty-One Reporting Firms as of March 15, 1950: Total and Sex22
                  
                  
                     
                     Total
                     Female
                     Male
                  
                  
                     Food and Kindred Products
                     94
                     12
                     82
                  
                  
                     Furniture
                     660
                     72
                     588
                  
                  
                     Stone, 
                                    Clay
                                 and Glass
                     429
                     47
                     382
                  
                  
                     Electrical Machinery
                     2790
                     1986
                     804
                  
                  
                     Construction
                     49
                     5
                     44
                  
                  
                     Trucking
                     56
                     4
                     52
                  
                  
                     Communications
                     108
                     76
                     32
                  
                  
                     Retail General Merchandise
                     147
                     120
                     27
                  
                  
                     Retail Food
                     107
                     15
                     92
                  
                  
                     Retail Automotive
                     83
                     5
                     78
                  
                  
                     Hotels, Rooming Houses
                     73
                     53
                     20
                  
                  
                     Personal Services
                     70
                     54
                     16
                  
                  
                     Education23
                     
                     2100
                     1022
                     1078
                  
                  
                     Quarrying24
                     
                     110
                     3
                     107
                  
                  
                     Total
                     6876
                     3474
                     3402
                  
               
            
            
               
                  21 On this problem, the following are relevant: Dale Yoder and Donald G.
                        Paterson, Local Labor Market Research (
                            Minneapolis
                        , 1948), 42ff; W. S. Woytinsky, Labor in the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            Washington
                        , 1938), xvii-xxii; and John D. Durand, The Labor Force in the 
                                United States
                            , 1890-1960 (
                            New York
                        , 1948).
               
                  22 This is by no means total employment in the county. It is, rather,
                        employment for the twenty-one major firms which furnish periodic employment data to the Indiana
                        Employment Security Division. It undoubtedly includes the bulk of employment, however.
               
                  23 This refers to Indiana University and includes the academic personnel.
               
                  24 These figures reflect the virtual cessation of quarrying activities
                        during the winter months.
            
            
            The local manufacturing employers which have the greatest number of male employees are within the
                    electrical machinery and furniture groups. There is one other large employer within the city. That,
                    however, is not a manufacturer, but is Indiana University, which has some fifteen hundred
                    nonacademic employees. Within the general area, there are in addition numerous limestone quarries
                    and mills which undoubtedly draw primarily on rural residents for their labor supply.
            Impressions obtained of local employment as related to residence are as follows: 
                  1. the greatest number of rural residents who are employed off-the–farm work
                            either at the University as janitorial personnel, buildings and grounds workers, etc., or in
                            the limestone quarries and mills in the area;
                  2. the proportion of electrical machinery workers who are rural residents is smaller than
                            that of such among furniture workers.
               
            
         
         
         
            Effects of the Michigan Road on Northern Indiana, 1830-1860
            
               Leon M. Gordon II*
            Need for easier routes of migration into northern Indiana, argument of military necessity, desire to
                    expedite the removal of Indians, and longing for greater accessibility to markets were all advanced
                    in the late 1820's by politicians, military men, and merchants as irrefutable reasons for
                    the construction of a great north-south highway connecting the Ohio River and
                        Lake Michigan by way of Indiana's new capital at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .1 As the vision of what became the Michigan Road grew, however,
                    sectional and town jealousies endangered attainment of the goal.
            In response to growing public agitation road commissioners Lewis Cass,2 John
                        Tipton,3 and James B. Ray4 made sure that a route was
                    provided for in article two of the Potawatomi treaty on October 16, 1826. Under its terms the 
                  
                     * Leon M. Gordon II is a graduate student in history at
                            Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 Geneal Prather, "The Struggle for the Michigan
                            Road," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1905-), XXXIX (1943), 1-5.
                  
                     2 The public career of Cass is well known. His service in the War of
                            1812 and as governor of 
                                Michigan
                             Territory won him the praise of Harrison. He later served as Jackson's
                            secretary of war, but as minister to 
                                France
                             his severe Anglo-phobia was a handicap. Sent to the senate in 1845, Cass
                            resigned in 1848 to become the Democratic presidential candidate. After an eventful period
                            as Buchanan's secretary of state, he retired and till his death in 1866 followed
                            literary and scholarly interests. Louis M. Sears, "Lewis Cass," Dictionary of American Biography (21 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1943), III, 562-564.
                  
                     3 John Tipton was born in 
                                Sevier County
                            , East 
                                Tennessee
                            , August 14, 1786, but came to Indiana Territory in 1807. Having won distinction
                            at the Battle of 
                                Tippecanoe
                            , he subsequently rose to major general. After service in the state legislature,
                            Tipton was made Indian agent at 
                                Fort Wayne
                             in 1824 and at 
                                Logansport
                             in 1828. At the latter place he also served on the Michigan Road commission.
                            From 1831 to 1839, Tipton represented Indiana in the 
                                United States
                             senate, and he died on April 5, 1839. A Biographical History of
                                Eminent and Self-Made Men of the State of Indiana (2 vols., 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1880), II, District 10, pp. 40-41.
                  
                     4 James B. Ray was born in 
                                Jefferson County
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            , February 19, 1794. In 1822 he began his career in the Indiana senate and
                            served as governor from 1825 to 1831. During this time he helped negotiate a treaty with the
                            Miami and Potawatomi and was active on behalf of the Michigan Road. After leaving office Ray
                            talked and wrote at length about the great potentialities of 
                                Indianapolis
                             as a railroad hub. An attack of cholera proved fatal on August 4, 1848. William
                            Wesley Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883), 56-64.
               
                     Indians ceded a strip of land one hundred feet wide from
                        Lake Michigan to the 
                        Wabash
                     and included one section of good land contiguous to it for each mile from the lake to
                    the Ohio River.5 The commission's failure to name
                    the southern terminus of the road was to cause much unnecessary and heated discussion. Governor Ray
                    was especially interested in the project and rightfully insisted on full credit for the necessary
                    grant. Having secured the land from the Indians, his next job was to convince disbelievers of the
                    road's necessity which he undertook in numerous speeches and public statements. The
                    governor's belief that since the road would split the Potawatomi territory their attachment
                    to the land would be weakened was not borne out, and ultimately removal by force became
                        necessary.6 In fact, one observer noted caustically the manner in which the
                    poor Indians were "sucked in" on the arrangement in the false belief that such a
                    road and land grant would be of great benefit to them. The resultant flood of emigrants belied that
                        inference.7
            
            Although personal enmity toward the governor jeopardized the land grants, and bitter controversy
                    raged in the General Assembly over location of the southern terminus, operations at the northern end
                    of the road were quickly initiated. By an act of January 24, 1828, three commissioners, John
                    McDonald of 
                        Daviess County
                    , 
                        Chester
                     Elliott of 
                        Warwick County
                    , and John I. Neely of 
                        Gibson County
                    , were appointed to survey and mark out a road from Lake Michigan
                    to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . They were to select the best site for an artificial harbor at the northern end of the
                    road and accurately to survey the topography and natural resources of the region traversed.8 The mouth of Trail Creek, the present location of 
                        Michigan City
                    , was selected, and two routes south were surveyed. The most direct one passed through 
                        La Porte
                     and the Kankakee swamps; the other, thirty miles longer, went through 
                        South Bend
                    . A traveler in 1829 observed that the latter site at the southern bend of the
                        St. Joseph River would be fine for a 
                  
                     5 For the treaty of October 16, 1826, see Charles J. Kappler (ed.),
                                Indian Affairs, Laws, and Treaties in Senate
                            Documents, 58 Cong., 2 Sess., no. 139 (2d ed., 2 vols., serial nos. 4623 and 4624), II,
                            273-277.
                  
                     6 See Leon M. Gordon II, "The Red Man's Retreat from
                            Northern Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XLVI (1950),
                            39-60.
                  
                     7 Prather, "The Struggle for the Michigan Road," ibid., XXXIX, 7-11; Louise Fogle (ed.), "Journal of Ebenezer
                            Mattoon Chamberlain, 1832-5," ibid., XV (1919), 249.
                  
                     8
                      Laws of Indiana, 1827-1828, pp. 87-89; ibid., 1828-1829, pp. 8-9.
               
                     village location. Moreover, the road "lately laid
                    off" from Lake Michigan to 
                        Indianapolis
                     would afford the advantage of an outlet to the 
                        Wabash
                    . Meanwhile, a year had been lost in legislative bickering, and not until January 14,
                    1829, was an appropriation made for the nineteen people who worked on the survey north of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .9
            
            Another year was consumed before 
                        Madison
                     was finally chosen as the southern terminus, and the Lake Michigan
                    to 
                        Indianapolis
                     survey via 
                        South Bend
                     accepted. The latter decision was made over Governor Ray's opposition, and
                    subsequent critics also felt the road should have gone through 
                        La Porte
                    . The excuse given for not doing so was the mistaken belief that the Kankakee marshes
                    were impassable. Having made the choice, however, the General Assembly ordered that the land grants
                    provided for in the Potawatomi treaty be put on sale by the first Monday of December, 1830. It was
                    expected that the receipts obtained from their disposal would cover building expenses.10
            
            Construction of the road between the Ohio River and the 
                        Wabash
                     lies outside the scope of this article except to note that an act of January 29, 1830,
                    set up the conditions under which this section was to be opened between August 1, 1830, and November
                    30, 1831. Plans for the new road created considerable public excitement, and Martin M. Post, the
                    Presbyterian missionary at 
                        Logansport
                    , voiced the popular enthusiasm that it would soon be opened through that city. He was
                    premature, however, in saying that at the same time the road would be opened to Lake
                        Michigan.11
            
            Before that could occur, towns along the northern half of the road had to be developed. Speedy
                    progress in that 
                  
                     9 Prather, "The Struggle for the Michigan Road," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIX, 12-19; "Northern Indiana in
                            1829," ibid., III (1908), 85.
                  
                     10
                            Laws of Indiana, 1829-1830, pp. 111-114; The Western Farmer
                                and Gardener (
                                Indianapolis
                             1845-1848), I, 354; Prather, "The Struggle for the Michigan
                            Road," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIX, 19-24. At the time the
                            commissioners were considering the Kankakee route they also visited Delphi with the
                            expectation of running the road through it. The residents were surprisingly apathetic,
                            however, and advised them to go to 
                                Cass County
                            , which was done. John C. Odell, History of 
                                    Carroll County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 236.
                  
                     11
                            Laws of Indiana, 1829-1830, pp. 114-116; Martin M. Post to Absalom Peters, 
                                Logansport
                            , May 24, 1830, in American Home Missionary Society manuscript photostats
                            (hereafter referred to as A.H.M.S. MSS photostats) in Indiana Division, Indiana State
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
               
                     respect was indicated by a correspondent of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal in November, 1830, that the seat of justice of 
                        St. Joseph County
                     would soon be established at the south bend of the St. Joseph
                    River. He regretted, however, that the act of January 29, 1830, did not provide for
                    opening the road to that point because superior salt from 
                        Canandaigua
                    , 
                        New York
                    , which sold for only $3.50 per barrel of five bushels, was available there.
                    Actually, the road was not laid out through 
                        South Bend
                     before June, 1831, and not until then were the town's main streets cleared of
                    standing timber.12
            
            Local issues now gave way to disputes between the state and national governments over disposal of the
                    land grants, but after considerable discussion conditions were laid down in 1831, for construction
                    of the road between 
                        Logansport
                     and 
                        South Bend
                    . It was to be sixty-six feet wide and cleared of all stumps over one foot high; the
                    creek banks graded; the swamps and mud causewayed; and laid off into districts of not more than four
                    miles in length. The whole was to be under contract by the fourth Monday of August, 1831.13
            
            Rules had been laid down relative to acceptable scrip on February 4, 1831, and William Polke was made
                    the sole commissioner. Under the same act land was to be offered for sale at 
                        Logansport
                     on the third Monday of October in half quarter sections at not less than a dollar and a
                    quarter an acre. Such legislation would have been fruitless had not the federal government redressed
                    the grievances of the state on the road grants on March 2. That event paved the way for an Indian
                    council on August 20 at Potawatomi Mills when selection of grants north of the Kankakee
                        River was discussed.14
            
            On January 31, 1832, the General Assembly granted an extension of seven months for fulfillment of all
                    contracts which should have been completed by the previous November 30. A month later as a result of
                    the state's improved financial prospects the road north of the 
                        Wabash
                     was broadened to correspond with the width south of the river. In addition, two 
                  
                     12 Chas. C. Chapman and Co., History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1880), 843, 511, 845.
                  
                     13
                            Special Laws of Indiana, 1830-1831, pp. 176, 119-121.
                  
                     14
                            Laws of Indiana, 1830-1831, pp. 114-118; 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, IV, 473; Journal of the Senate of the
                                State of Indiana, 1831-1832, p. 70; Prather, "Construction of the Michigan
                            Road," Indiana Magazine of History, XL (1944), 248-256. For a
                            description of the mills see Sandford Cox, Recollections of the Early
                                Settlement of the Wabash Valley
                      (
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, 1860), 135-137.
               
                     land sales were authorized, one of which was held at 
                        South Bend
                     from June 4 to 8 and brought an average price of a dollar and thirty-three cents an
                    acre. The same act also ordered that similar methods of construction be employed north and south of
                    the river, the whole to be under contract by July 4 in one mile units. Total cost of construction
                    between 
                        Logansport
                     and Lake Michigan averaged $288.06 a mile. A second
                    sale took place at 
                        Logansport
                     on October 15, 1832, and receipts averaged one dollar and fifty cents an acre.15 A supplementary act on January 30, 1833, granted an additional appropriation
                    and a nine-months extension of contracts besides outlining the process for redemption of scrip.16
            
            After tracing the background of the road's construction, a guidebook published in the same
                    year advertised that the road had been laid out and rendered passable. Subsequent notices of the
                    road in gazetteers of that decade added no new information, and at least in one case gave an almost
                    verbatim repetition of material printed four years previously.17
            
            Road building, however, did not entail then what it does today, and in late spring of 1833 Hugh
                    McCulloch, riding horseback between 
                        Logansport
                     and 
                        South Bend
                    , commented that nothing had been done to make the path a road except to open a
                    perfectly straight way through trees towering on either side. Oak openings and a rather extensive
                    belt of walnut trees gradually replaced the almost impenetrable forest, but he saw only two cabins
                    over the entire distance, one on the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and the other twenty miles farther north. The following October George David, an
                    English traveler, crossed the road near its northern extremity through "mud hole, swamp,
                    & bog for 10 miles."18
            
            
               
                  15
                        Laws of Indiana, 1831-1832, p. 87; Prather, "Construction of the 
                            Michigan
                         Eoad," Indiana Magazine of History, XL, 261-262.
               
                  16
                  Laws of Indiana, 1832-1833, p. 34.
               
                  17 Timothy Flint, The History and Geography of the
                                Mississippi Valley
                   (2 vols, in one, 
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
                  , 1832), 385; John Scott, The Indiana Gazetteer (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1833), 119; [Robert Baird], View of the Valley of the 
                                Mississippi
                            
                   (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1834), 169; I. Daniel Rupp, The Geographical Catechism of 
                                Pennsylvania
                             and the Western States (
                     Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
                  ,
                        1836), 275; Oliver G. Steele, Steele's Western Guide Book (
                            Buffalo
                        , 
                            New York
                        , 1836), 75.
               
                  18 Hugh McCulloch, Men and Measures of Half a Century (
                            New York
                        , 1888), 79-80, 88-89; George David, "A Trip from 
                            London
                         to 
                            Chicago
                        , 1833," 
                     
                                Michigan
                             History Magazine (
                            Lansing
                        , 
                            Michigan
                        , 1917-), XVIII (1934), 63. Oak openings or barrens were the names given to natural
                        clearings in the midst of dense woods. Their surface was generally covered with tall grass and
                        interspersed with oak trees.
            
            
            Failure to effect greater improvement in the road was largely due to financial difficulties which
                    were met in part by two acts of February 1, 1834, that subjected Michigan Road lands to taxation and
                    also directed county commissioners to accept primary responsibility for the road's upkeep
                    within their jurisdiction.19 Although these acts somewhat alleviated the burden,
                    two additional years were insufficient for sale of the remaining land grants. Maintenance expense
                    continued, however, and provoked the tentative decision to abolish the state commissioner's
                    job by February 20, 1837, and to take action against all uncompleted contracts by September 10,
                        1836.20
            
            In November, 1835, Jacob Schramm, a German emigrant, rode from 
                        Hancock County
                     over the road, "not the best," which he described as forty German
                    miles long with a twenty-four foot ditch on either side. Lack of stones made it only slightly
                    resemble improved German roads. He underestimated his countrymen's hardihood by asserting
                    that sparse population along the road accounted for primitive conditions which few Germans would
                    tolerate. On his return trip lack of inns forced him to take refuge in a vacant, doorless cabin
                    where he nearly froze.21
            
            Persistent demands for improvements harassed the General Assembly, which on February 2, 1837,
                    provided for a new survey through 
                  Logansport,
                            South Bend, La
                        Porte
               , and 
                        Michigan City
                     to facilitate better service and to assign more effective responsibility to the county
                    commissioners. Polke was retained as the state commissioner until January 1, 1838, and his report
                    for the ensuing calendar year indicated that only 739.98 acres of land included in the original
                    grants remained unsold. Conditions of travel did not improve greatly, however, and in October, 1839,
                    there was only one inn between 
                        Rochester
                     on the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and 
                        Plymouth
                    , presumably the same one McCulloch had noted six years previously.22
            
            
               
                  19
                        Laws of Indiana, 1833-1834, pp. 194, 199-200.
               
                  20
                        Ibid., Local, 1835-1836, pp. 348-349.
               
                  21 Emma S. Vonnegut (ed.), "The Schramm Letters,"
                        Indiana Historical Society Publication (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1895-), XI (1937), 272-273.
               
                  22
                        Laws of Indiana, 1836-1837, pp. 64-65; Prather, "Construction of the
                        Michigan Road," Indiana Magazine of History, XL, 270-275; George
                        Evans to his Family and Particular Friends, 
                            Spiceland
                        , 
                            Henry County
                        , November 2, 1839, MS in Evans Collection, Indiana Division, Indiana State
                    Library.
            
            
            In an effort to dispose of unsold lands, including about three hundred practically worthless acres,
                    the legislature lowered the price to sixty-two and a half cents an acre in 1842. Thus, the long
                    struggle for the state's first "super highway" drew to a close. It should
                    be noted, however, that because expenses were paid from land sales the Michigan Road had cost the
                    state nothing. Therefore, it played no part in the financial collapse associated with the 1836
                    system of internal improvements.23
            
            Travel over the road continued to be heavy, although apparently no one bragged about its condition.
                    Henry Ward Beecher in October, 1845, maintained that no one knew what the ups and downs of life
                    meant until he had traveled north on the road after wheat wagons and rain had done their damage. In
                    some places the broken and punctured wood cross pieces made a dangerous trap for horses'
                    legs and carriage wheels.24
            
            An attempt to improve travel conditions by constructing a plank or macadamized road between 
                        Logansport
                     and 
                        Rochester
                     led to the incorporation of the 
                        Logansport
                     and 
                        Rochester
                        Michigan
                     Road Company on January 15, 1846. Five or six years passed with little action taken,
                    but about 1852 the route was planked with two-inch boards twelve feet long which were spiked to
                    three pieces of square timber laid lengthwise. This made a fair road for one or two years, then it
                    was abandoned because the planks split, curled up, rotted and got loose.25 Two
                    guidebooks, however, published in the fifties described the road as partly macadamized north of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .26
            
            As late as the fall of 1851 a stagecoach trip from 
                        South Bend
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     on the Michigan Road required five days over a particularly rough stretch between 
                        South Bend
                     and 
                        Plymouth
                    . From there to 
                        Logansport
                     muddy swamps and log bridges marked the way, and Samuel Wells from 
                        Detroit
                     reached the seat of justice of 
                        Cass County
                     spattered with mud and clay, his new silk hat crushed and filthy.27
            
            
               
                  23
                        Laws of Indiana, 1839-1840, pp. 73-74; Prather, "Construction of the
                        Michigan Road," Indiana Magazine of History, XL, 278.
               
                  24
                        The Western Farmer and Gardener, I, 353.
               
                  25
                        Laws of Indiana, Local, 1845-1846, pp. 3-8; W. Swift Wright, Pastime Sketches (n.p., 1907), 172; Thomas B. Helm (ed.), History of 
                                Cass County
                            , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1886), 283.
               
                  26 John Hayward, A Gazetteer of the 
                                United States
                             of America (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1845), 52; C. W. Dana, The Great West (
                            Boston
                        , 1857), 87.
               
                  27 Samuel Wells Journal, MS extract in Indiana Division, Indiana State
                        Library.
            
            
            Although it is not possible to attempt a study of population movements over the Michigan Road in this
                    article, some indication can be given of growth and progress in those parts of north central Indiana
                    which the road served.28 North of the 
                        Wabash
                     it connected 
                        Logansport
                    , 
                        Cass County
                    ; 
                  Rochester, Fulton County
               ; 
                        Plymouth
                    , 
                        Marshall County
                    ; 
                  South Bend, St.
                            Joseph County
               ; and 
                        Michigan City
                    , 
                        La Porte County
                    . The latter two centers afforded outlets to the 
                        St. Joseph
                     of Lake Michigan and to the lake itself, respectively.
            
               
                        Cass County
                    , which had only been organized a little over a year, contained 1,162 people in 1830,
                    but that total scarcely indicated its frontier aspect. 
                        Logansport
                    , the county seat, was described as located at the confluence of the
                    Eel and Wabash rivers on the north side of the latter,
                    four hundred fifty miles from the mouth, forty miles above 
                        Lafayette
                    , and eighty from 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . A quick survey of the town revealed an estimated population of four hundred, water
                    power potentialities which were praised many times in the future, a brick seminary, printing press,
                    and a newspaper. Construction of a Masonic temple was planned for the summer. Fertile prairies and
                    woodlands, the beautiful 
                        Wabash
                    , clear springs, and crystal lakes were marred only by the expensiveness of living and
                        "groceries,"29 characterized as "fountains of
                        misery."30
            
            In little more than three years the "groceries" had been suppressed, but the
                    continuing high cost of living was blamed on the lack of productive prairies due to extensive
                    heavily timbered lands. Moreover, rapid settlement with comparatively little adjacent land offered
                    for sale aggravated the supply problem and meant that provisions had to be hauled from a distance.
                    Hugh McCulloch in 1833, however, called 
                        Logansport
                    
                    
                  
                     28 In general, emigrants from the Southeast came down the
                                Ohio River, then took the Michigan Road to all points in Indiana
                            and the Northwest. Another popular method was to follow the National Road to 
                                Indianapolis
                            , then take the Michigan Road to 
                                Logansport
                             and other northern sites.
                  
                     29 "Groceries" was a term used by contemporaries of
                            this period to denote stores where liquor was sold in quantity. Apparently, they were the
                            antecedents of the package liquor stores of today.
                  
                     30
                            Eleventh Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1890, Population, I, 17; Post to Peters, 
                                Logansport
                            , May 24, 1830, A.H.M.S. MSS photostats. 
                                Cass County
                             was organized by an act of December 28, 1828, supplemented by an act of January
                            19, 1829. Laws of Indiana, 1828-1829, pp. 26-28.
               
                     one of the flourishing towns of the state and the center of a
                    large and rapidly increasing business.31
            
            In the winter of 1834-1835, Martin M. Post, the Presbyterian missionary there, complained of an
                    outbreak of bilious disorders and high living costs. He blamed Indian traders and adventurers, the
                    rapidity of settlement, the spirit of commercial enterprise, progress of public works, and the
                    laborers thereon for the "deplorable profanation of the Sabbath," which was more
                    or less true in all the 
                        Wabash
                     towns. Among the more unusual of these business activities in the early thirties was a
                    ginseng factory where the proprietor prepared the root for export to 
                        China
                    .32
            
            By the spring of 1836 the north abutment of the Eel River bridge was under
                    construction, and the town was "thronged with strangers." Ezra Keller, a Lutheran
                    minister touring the Middle West, stopped at 
                        Lafayette
                     and was told by a native of 
                        Logansport
                     that there were many German Protestants in the latter town, and Keller felt they should
                    be visited. An estimated two thousand people inhabited Logans-port by July, 1837, and it struck
                    George Winter, the English artist, as an "interesting town" soon destined to
                    arrive at considerable importance. Churches, seminaries, and many large brick buildings built and
                    operated by industrious and enterprising merchants and mechanics encouraged the realization of his
                        prediction.33
            
            In the same year the town's square contained a two-story hewed-log house, a round log cabin,
                    an unfinished one-story, two-room frame building, a two-room hewed-log jail, a one-story brick
                    building, a frame two-story chair and furniture factory, and a small hat factory whose product sold
                    for five dollars.34 Some of the town's early visitors were considerably
                    intrigued by prairie fires, which swept over large areas in the vicinity every fall, and were blamed
                    on the luxuriant grass, fallen leaves, and dried herbs and flowers. The loose sandy 
                  
                     31 Post to Peters, 
                                Logansport
                            , June 26 and December 31, 1833, A.H. M.S. MSS photostats; McCulloch, Men and Measures, 86-88.
                  
                     32 Post to Peters, 
                                Logansport
                            , April 9, 1834; January 12 and July 7, 1835, A.H.M.S. MSS photostats; Jehu Z.
                            Powell, History of 
                                    Cass County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1913), I, 319.
                  
                     33 Rev. M. Diehl, Biography of Rev. Ezra Keller,
                            D.D, (
                        Springfield, Ohio
                     , 1859), 73; The Journals and Indian
                                Paintings of George Winter (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1948), 95-96.
                  
                     34 Powell, History of 
                                    Cass County
                                
                     , I, 314-315.
               
                     soil could not sustain large timber growths and many trees
                    blown down in strong wind storms added fuel to the conflagrations. They were nearly always described
                    as most destructive, consuming fences and buildings in their path.35
            
            Despite the incorporation of 
                        Logansport
                     on February 17, 1838, modern conveniences were scarce. Over a year and a half later a
                    niece of Frances Slocum complained that the public house was untidy, and all the women employees
                    were sick with the endemic fever. She admitted that the town enjoyed a nice and pleasant location
                    and had grown rapidly, although business enterprise was stagnant at the time. Despite a population
                    of 5,480 in 1840, the county's development did not keep pace with the growth of the town.
                    At the same time the latter's residents numbered 2,500 and included nineteen lawyers, ten
                    physicians, and eighteen merchants.36
            
            John U. Pettit of 
                        Lafayette
                     was sent on a legal errand in October, 1840, and found only Indian trails diverging
                    from the county seat. Returning from 
                        Miami County
                    
                    on horseback, he discovered that the raging waters of Twelve Mile Creek had
                    destroyed the bridge. He was forced to ford the stream and further inconvenienced because his
                    horse's saddle girth broke. He encountered much difficulty in scrambling to shore.37
            
            Expectancy of an "immense" manufacturing center based on water power from the 
                        Wabash
                     and Eel rivers was still strong in the summer of 1841.
                    Agricultural interests were also active, and Solon Robinson of 
                        Lake County
                     remarked about the unsurpassed richness of land near 
                        Logansport
                     covered with heavy timber which had helped to create one of the many "sudden
                    but substantial" western towns. In fact, he regretted that more attention was not paid to
                    agriculture, although a serious drought had rather heavily damaged the 1841 corn and oats crop.
                    Robinson urged that an unsuccessful 
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., 633; Fogle, "Journal of Ebenezer Mattoon
                            Chamberlain," Indiana Magazine of History, XV, 248.
                  
                     36 John F. Meginness, Biography of Frances Slocum
                                    (
                        Williamsport, Pennsylvania
                     , 1891), 113; Eleventh
                                Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1890, Population, I, 17; Laws of Indiana, Local,
                                1837-1838, pp. 111-122; C. W. Cady, The Indiana Annual Register,
                            184-6 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1846), 94.
                  
                     37 John U. Pettit to his Father, 
                                Lafayette
                            , October 23, 1840, MS in J. U. Pettit Papers, Indiana Division, Indiana State
                            Library.
               
                     experiment with Berkshire pigs the previous fall not be allowed
                    to kill interest in them.38
            
            
               
                        Logansport
                    's beautiful location and delightful prospects were admired by Henry Ward
                    Beecher in the fall of 1845, but oft-expressed hopes for manufacturing leadership based on the
                    town's water power potential remained unfulfilled. An abundance of good quality limestone
                    in the vicinity suggested another industry to Beecher, and he also felt that the soil needed a
                    dressing of lime to develop its greatest fertility. He highly approved small scale cattle breeding
                    ventures and nurseries.39
            
            Such glowing accounts were somewhat tempered, however, by the observation two years later that there
                    were still no bridges across the Tippecanoe River, nor was ferry boat service
                    provided till 1850. At the time northeastern 
                        Logansport
                     was called Ponetown but contained no residences. As mid-century approached, the town
                    was considered important enough by the Methodist state board to hold its annual conference there in
                    the fall of 1849.40
            
            By 1850 the population of 
                        Cass County
                     had jumped to 11,021. Within two years the county seat boasted a new auditorium, and a
                    long covered bridge, which charged an "exorbitant toll," extended to an island in
                    Eel River. Members of a traveling concert company were amused by the snakes and odd stones along the
                    shore, and after their second performance enjoyed ice cream in one of the town's
                        "saloons."41
            
            A laconic comment less than a year later characterized 
                        Logansport
                     as a large bustling town with a particularly attractive cemetery. The surrounding area
                    still failed to advance with equal rapidity, however, and during the hard times following the panic
                    of 1853 when work was scarce it was not unusual for hunters from neighboring counties to sell deer
                    for 
                  
                     38 Herbert A. Kellar (ed.), Solon Robinson, Pioneer and
                                Agriculturist (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1936), I, 242. These volumes are XXI and XXII of the Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916-).
                  
                     39
                            The Western Farmer and Gardener, I, 353-354.
                  
                     40 W. H. Hamelle (ed.), A Standard History of 
                                    White County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1915), I, 413; John L. Smith, Indiana Methodism (
                                Valparaiso
                            , Indiana, 1892), 186.
                  
                     41
                            Eleventh Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1890, Population, I, 17; Sara A. Blakely, Diary, MS in 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society Library, 
                        Chicago, Illinois
                     .
               
                     a dollar apiece at 
                        Logansport
                    . Population growth in that decade produced a total of 16,843 in the county by 1860.42
            
            Information of a similar character for 
                        Fulton County
                    , directly north of Cass, is almost completely lacking, probably because the county was
                    off the main line of travel except for the Michigan Road. A prospective settler in 1835 near present
                    Akron was allured by dense forests, berries, fruits, an abundance of game, and clear water springs.
                    The county was organized on January 23, 1836, and on June 1 one of the earliest mass emigrations
                    occurred when a colony of forty-seven from Medina, 
                        Ohio
                    , arrived after a thirty-day trip over many miles of stiff, black mud. In 1838 the
                    leader and a friend laid off 
                        Newark
                     and named the postoffice Wesley.43
            
            By 1840 the contrast of development between 
                        Fulton
                     and 
                        Cass
                     counties became apparent. The census of that year revealed only 1,993 in the former, of
                    which about one hundred sixty lived in 
                        Rochester
                    , the county seat. One lawyer, four physicians, and six merchants served the town. A
                    year later a new settler, found seventeen or eighteen families in 
                        Wayne
                     Township and by the close of that decade there were 5,982 people in the county. Ten
                    years later, however, the population had not reached ten thousand.44
            
            
               
                        Marshall County
                    , directly north of 
                        Fulton
                    , first drew public attention because of its numerous Indian settlements and reserves.
                    Other claims for settlers' preference were not so apparent, and it was observed in 1829
                    that wet prairie and black oak timber between the Kankakee and Yellow
                        rivers contained no land suitable for farming. The soil was pronounced most inferior
                    but this was too hasty a condemnation. Lake Maxinkuckee, over seven miles in circumference and
                    surrounded with rolling land of good quality in the southwest corner of the county, prompted the
                    anticipation that some day the lake would supply a feeder for a canal between the
                    Wabash and Illinois rivers.45
            
            
               
                  42 Pettit to his Father, 
                            Lafayette
                        , March 18, 1853, MS in Pettit Papers; F. A. Battey & Co., Counties of 
                                White
                             and 
                                Pulaski
                            , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1883), 633-634; Eleventh Census of the 
                                United States
                            , 1890, Population, I, 17.
               
                  43 Henry A. Barnhart, History of 
                                Fulton County
                            , Indiana (
                     Dayton, Ohio
                  , 1923), 136-137, 140; Laws
                            of Indiana, General, 1835-1836, pp. 48-49.
               
                  44
                        Eleventh Census of the 
                                United States
                            , 1890, Population, I, 17; Cady, Indiana Annual Register,
                        107.
               
                  45 "Northern Indiana in 1829," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, III, 86.
            
            
            James M. Greer, Sr., who came into the county about 1835, noted large numbers of wild deer which
                    frequently raided cornfields at the site of Bourbon. Cattle were often lost in the lowlands and
                    marshes. The practice of raising hogs, an excellent small game supply, and the frequency of ague
                    which sometimes raised the cost of quinine to four dollars an ounce also attracted his attention.46
            
            Having been organized four years previously, the county in 1840 numbered 1,651 inhabitants, which
                    included one hundred eighty in 
                        Plymouth
                    . The county seat also boasted two lawyers, four doctors, and four merchants. Five years
                    later a Methodist circuit rider found 
                        Plymouth
                     still mostly covered with dense forest and a few Indian family reservations nearby.
                    Nevertheless, an "earnest, enterprising" white population was coming in, and the
                    Methodist church was reorganized there in 1843. On Thanksgiving Day, 1844, a rude building was first
                    used exclusively for worship purposes, and the same year a log meetinghouse was begun in the woods
                    east of town.47
            
            The county continued to grow at about the same rate as 
                        Fulton
                    , and totaled 5,348 people in 1850. The contradiction between the growing population and
                    primitive living conditions was used by the editor of the 
                        Plymouth
                    
                    Pilot in 1851 to castigate those who permitted the continued existence of
                    execrable roads and to urge that plank road connections be made with 
                  Logansport, Rochester,
                            South Bend
               , and 
                        La Porte
                    . He suggested that the planking should be one foot wide, nine feet long, and two and a
                    half inches thick.48
            
            Of more interest in the thirties and forties because of the later career of its principal citizen was
                    a settlement at the north end of Twin Lakes originally named Onondaga, but which was corrupted to
                    Sligo. Shortly after 1835 a bog iron forge was built there and operated by Charles Crocker and
                    French Fisher. Farmers in the area during the dull season supplemented their incomes by work on some
                    aspect of the 
                  
                     46 Daniel McDonald, A Twentieth Century History of 
                                    Marshall County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1908), I, 158-161.
                  
                     47
                            Laws of Indiana, General, 1835-1836, pp. 49-50; Eleventh
                                Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1890, Population, I, 18; Cady, Indiana Annual
                            Register, 124; John M. Bishop, Life in Indiana at Three Score (
                                Lebanon
                            , Indiana, 1879), 4-7.
                  
                     48
                            Eleventh Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1890, Population, I, 18; McDonald, History of 
                                    Marshall County
                                
                     , I, 151-152; Laws of Indiana, Local, 1850-1851, pp.
                            147-148.
               
                     forge's business, and the owners had high hopes for
                    the town's success.
            It did achieve temporary prominence with various stores, a school, church, and postoffice serving the
                    community. At the forge, Jacob Gebhardt was the hammerman who heated the ore in a charcoal fire fed
                    by air from water-powered bellows, then pounded the iron into convenient lengths for handling. As
                    many as forty men were employed day and night, and Gebhardt's wife, Julia, managed a
                    general store in connection with the forge. Damage to the latter from a fire in 1849 was repaired
                    within ten days, but Crocker sold out the next year. The business was gradually abandoned, and the
                    nearby gristmill was torn down in 1922.49
            
            While there were other county towns besides 
                        Plymouth
                     and Sligo at the middle of the century, none had yet assumed importance. Lycurgus
                    supported a blacksmith shop in August, 1849, but Bourbon impressed one young observer as the
                    dreariest place he had ever seen. It consisted only of a few log houses, one of which was a general
                    store of small proportions set in the midst of a forest wilderness. Greater development took place
                    in the county during the fifties, however, and by 1860 it had spurted ahead of 
                        Fulton
                     with a total population of 12,722.50
            
            Events of this period in 
                        St. Joseph County
                     immediately north of Marshall have been discussed in a preceding article,51 but as was suggested the 
                        Elkhart
                     and St. Joseph Rivers and the road from 
                        Chicago
                     to 
                        Detroit
                     in addition to the Michigan Road both played an important role in its development. Any
                    attempt to apportion the credit would be a fruitless task.
            For purposes of the 1830 census 
                        La Porte County
                     was part of the territory attached to 
                        St. Joseph
                     and its population was included in the total of two hundred eighty-seven. On 
                  
                     49 McDonald, History of 
                                    Marshall County
                                
                     , I, 322-324; Minnie H. Swindell, The Story of 
                                    Marshall County
                                
                      (n.p., 1923), 49-51. Crocker went to 
                                California
                             in 1850 and later achieved national fame as one of the builders of the Central
                            Pacific Railroad. See Oscar Lewis, The Big Four (
                                New York
                            , 1941), 49-123.
                  
                     50 McDonald, History of 
                                    Marshall County
                                
                     , I, 162-163; Eleventh Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1890, Population, I, 18. Julia Gebhardt kept a rather haphazard
                            journal of sales at the store, including many of the purchasers' names. MS Journal
                            in the Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     51 Leon M. Gordon II, "The Influence of River Transportation
                            on 
                                St. Joseph
                             and 
                                Elkhart Counties
                            , 1830-1860," Indiana Magazine of History, XLVI,
                            283-296.
               
                     January 9, 1832, the county was organized, and by November the
                    town of 
                        La Porte
                     was described by Ebenezer Chamberlain, a native of 
                        Maine
                    , as a pleasant village situated near a beautiful clear lake about a mile across, which
                    was fed by underground springs and abounded with fish. An abrupt opening between two extensive
                    groves of trees gave Door Prairie and the town their names. Chamberlain experienced the violence
                    with which a snowstorm could drive across the unobstructed reaches of Terre Coupee and Rolling
                    prairies. Door Prairie, however, impressed him as the most desirable portion of the county.52 The next month James Crawford, a visiting missionary, organized seven
                    Presbyterians of 
                        La Porte County
                     into a church, observed the many fertile prairies and small lakes full of fish, and
                    credited the inhabitants with more wealth, enterprise, and intelligence than first settlers of the
                    frontier commonly possessed.53
            
            Praise for the beauty of the flat topography was not unanimous, however, and the so-called
                    "Wet 
                        Prairie
                    " between 
                        South Bend
                     and 
                        La Porte
                     reminded Hugh McCulloch of a 
                        Maine
                     salt marsh. A more typical example two miles wide and ten or twelve miles long covered
                    with luxuriant grass and interspersed with multihued flowers restored his confidence in traditional
                    descriptions, but 
                        La Porte
                        Prairie
                    , although larger, impressed him as inferior in beauty. The county seat's few
                    buildings seemed so new and temporary that McCulloch felt they had been built specifically for the
                    first court session held there in 1833. Its courthouse was a one-and–a-half story,
                    hewed-log structure with the legal chamber at one end, a tavern at the other, a grocery or saloon in
                    the middle, and sleeping rooms over all. The court room, with a floor of un-planed boards supported
                    by trestles, contained a bench three or four feet high below which the accused and the jurors sat on
                    opposite sides of a long table. The trial of the brief docket was noteworthy only for the
                    prosecutor's abominable English. About ten haphazardly constructed dwellings were ranged
                    near the courthouse.54
            
            
               
                  52
                        Eleventh Census of the 
                                United States
                            , 1890, Population, I, 18; Laws of Indiana, 1831-1832,
                        pp. 9-10; Fogle, "Journal of Ebenezer Mat-toon Chamberlain," XV, 253.
               
                  53 James Crawford to Peters, Delphi, December 12, 1832, A.H.M.S. MSS
                        photostats.
               
                  54 McCulloch, Men and Measures, 90-93.
            
            
            Word of the new settlement was not sufficiently widespread in June, 1833, to attract Flavel Bascom, a
                    roving minister who had heard rumors of the new settlement on Door Prairie. He claimed to have found
                    only an unfinished cabin, and went on several miles to a hospitable farmer's home. Patrick
                    Shirreff, an Englishman sojourning in America the same year, expressed a more favorable opinion
                    while traveling in a four-horse open wagon from 
                        Niles
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    , and characterized the settlement as a small rising place in rich prairie country on
                    the margin of picturesque Clear Lake about eight miles from Lake Michigan. He
                    obtained shelter for the night at Clavering's Tavern, a crude log building with two
                    apartments, one of which contained five beds and nine travelers. The other was equally crowded. Next
                    morning his party breakfasted on flap cakes, bacon, potatoes, and bread at a cabin on the muddy road
                    from 
                        La Porte
                     to the lake. Near the latter the road turned to loose, heavy sand.55
            
            Terre Coupée and Rolling prairies made up for the difficulties George David experienced
                    crossing the wet prairie in October, 1833. The English visitor stayed at Well's door less
                    tavern ten miles east of 
                        La Porte
                    , and slept in the barroom of Allison's tavern in town. By the end of December
                    it was necessary to break solid ice and dodge ice cakes while crossing the 
                        St. Joseph
                     at 
                        Niles
                    . A vacant shanty on Terre Coupee Prairie provided temporary shelter for
                    David's fellow traveler, Charles F. Hoffman, who compared Rolling Prairie to the frozen
                    ground-swell of the sea. The little settlement of 
                        La Porte
                     in its attractive setting was a welcome relief, and Hoffman complimented the
                    "long-haired race of Hooshiers" for a geater degree of civilization than some of
                    their neighbors would admit. Although the land was yet thinly settled, he foresaw a dense population
                    when the land all came into market.56
            
            Presbyterian evangelical spirit was responsible for a missionary, John Morrill, arriving from 
                        Connersville
                     on New Year's Day, 1834, after a sixteen-day trip. He found the settlers 
                  
                     55 "The Autobiography of Flavel Bascom, 1833-40," in
                            William W. Sweet, The Congregationalists, Volume III of Religion on the American Frontier (3 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1939), 238-239; Patrick Shirreff, A Tour Through North
                            America (Edinburgh, 1835), 219-222.
                  
                     56 David, "A Trip from 
                                London
                             to 
                                Chicago
                            , 1853," 
                        
                                    Michigan
                                 History Magazine, XVIII, 63-64; Charles F. Hoffman, A
                                Winter in the West (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1835), I, 224-226.
               
                     on 
                        Elkhart
                        Prairie
                     "almost starved out" and raising a "Macedonian Cry"
                    against their plight. In general the residents of the "interesting region" seemed
                    more acquainted with 
                        New England
                     people than others and thus not so suspicious of them. Six months later a coreligionist
                    at 
                        Logansport
                     called 
                        La Porte
                     and its vicinity a most promising field of activity.57
            
            Poor roads hindered other pursuits as well as religious activity. One of the early settlers on Terre
                    Coupee Prairie in the fall of 1834 complained how bad they were across the marsh and prairie west of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     where a French half-breed owned one of the few cabins. Mud twelve to fifteen inches
                    deep and water often standing on both sides of the road conveyed the impression that the bottom had
                    fallen out. It was only universal hospitality in the opinion of some settlers that compensated for
                    many early inconveniences.58
            
            After more than a year of endeavor, a small crowded place of worship and uncomfortable dwellings
                    still hampered religious activity. Morrill forgot some of his earlier praise for the
                    population's character and complained about the ignorance and prejudice of those settlers
                    who felt that ministers should labor as other men. The successful regulation of
                    "groceries" was the brightest evidence of progress to him.59
            
            Agricultural facilities vied with religion for pre-eminence, but not until a real agriculturist
                    visited the area late in 1834 and the first part of 1835 were its splendors fully appreciated. Solon
                    Robinson of 
                        Lake County
                     found much of the land already claimed giving the appearance of an old settled country
                    covered with good frame houses, barns, and hay and grain stacks. The latter was becoming scarce and
                    high, however, because of the influx of newcomers. Wholesale produce prices in the county in
                    February, 1835, were: wheat and corn, 50¢ a bushel; oats, 371/2¢; pork, 31/2¢ to
                    4¢ a pound and 6¢ to 7¢ salted; beans and peas, $2.00 a
                    bushel and scarce; and seed potatoes, 50¢ to $1.00 per bushel and scarce.60
            
            Despite marketing difficulties great popular interest was evinced in land sales, and prairie areas
                    sold for five to twenty 
                  
                     57 John Morrill to Peters, 
                                La Porte
                            , January 20, 1834, A.H.M.S. MSS photostats; Post to Peters, 
                                Logansport
                            , July 3, 1834, ibid.
                  
                  
                     58 Timothy E. Howard, A History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1907), I, 298-299.
                  
                     59 Morrill to Peters, 
                                La Porte
                            , December 5, 1834, A.H.M.S. MSS photostats.
                  
                     60 Kellar, Solon Robinson, I, 66-67, 58.
               
                     dollars an acre. At the same time the 
                        La Porte
                     office grossed about four hundred thousand dollars before deduction of operating and
                    surveying expenses. The following spring, however, despite the presence of many strangers in town to
                    buy land, it appeared dull and on the decline. In June it looked "like a
                    graveyard" to one visitor, which he felt was caused by the laboring class having left the
                    country and gone west.61
            
            Outlying districts in the county were settled on a small scale by the mid-thirties. 
                        Hamilton
                     (Terre Coupée) was platted in March, 1836, and a year later 
                        New Carlisle
                     contained three small stores, a hotel, a log blacksmith shop, and about five houses.
                    Two race tracks approximately a rod apart and a mile long enclosed in a dense forest were built
                    south of town in the fall of 1837. 
                        Hamilton
                     was the most important of the two settlements, and a Methodist circuit rider preached
                    in what was called the Mormon temple there.62
            
            The English writer, Harriet Martineau, was disappointed in Door Prairie and Clear Lake in the summer
                    of 1836 because she crossed it in a heavy rain. Having lost time when the carriage mired in a hole
                    between 
                        La Porte
                     and 
                        Michigan City
                    , her party was further delayed west of the latter by a washed out bridge. While repairs
                    were being made, the group stopped at the three-room, spotlessly clean cabin of a settler who owned
                    eight hundred acres of land for which he had recently been offered forty dollars an acre. Despite
                    some heavy jolts, the wagon successfully crossed the makeshift log bridge.63
            
            Although Isaac Vail, a prospective emigrant in November, 1836, advised his son on the proper
                    procedure of building a barn on Terre Coupee Prairie, he reflected his wife's reluctance to
                    attempt the long journey from Rah way, 
                        New Jersey
                    . By late summer of 1837, the country around 
                        La Porte
                     still had not developed to a great extent, and it was necessary for one traveler to
                    stay at a private house about midway between 
                        La Porte
                     and Morgan Prairie. There was a public house at 
                        Hudson
                     by June, 1838, on the bank of a "handsome little lake." 
                        La Porte
                     itself was incorporated on February 17, 1838, and 
                  
                     61 Vonnegut, "The Schramm Letters," Indiana
                            Historical Society Publications, XI, 271-272.
                  
                     62 Howard, History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                
                     , I, 148-149, 296-298.
                  
                     63 Harriet Martineau, Society in America (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1837), I, 245-249.
               
                     within two years the surrounding roads were called generally
                    excellent except for a few marshes.64
            
            One 
                        Quaker
                    's acquaintance near 
                        La Porte
                     lived in a small cabin with a rough flour and dirt hearth, but he owned nearly a
                    thousand acres of land. An extended view in every direction revealed fifty or sixty buildings, which
                    included those of six or eight families of Friends. Rolling and Terre Coupee prairies were dotted
                    with several small villages and beautiful lakes. The latter impressed George Evans of 
                        Henry County
                     who saw it in the fall of 1839 as the richest he had ever seen particularly adapted to
                    the raising of grapes. 
                        La Porte County
                     grew the most rapidly of those through which the Michigan Road passed —8,184
                    inhabitants were within its bounds in 1840. In the same year the county seat contained twelve
                    hundred people, including eight lawyers, seven doctors, and seven merchants.65
            
            Of all the flora which the prairies supported, beds of strawberries were the most unusual to many
                    travelers, and expanses of rolling lands in the summer of 1841 recalled the earlier comparison to an
                    immense, beautiful lake of land extending as far as the eye could reach. Later that summer the fine
                    dry roads were again praised. Wheat was marketed at sixty-eight cents a bushel, and corn and
                    potatoes were very favorable. The oats crop, however, suffered from drought. It was an excellent
                    season for hay and grain, and hardly a trace remained of the almost universal wheat blight of 1840.
                    A new type thrasher that scattered the straw over the ground, blew out the chaff, and collected the
                    grain almost clean enough for milling, greatly facilitated its harvest.66
            
            Praise of the county's agricultural wonders was still enthusiastic in the mid-forties. Henry
                    Ward Beecher was convinced that a farmer could see nothing more beautiful than the prairie country,
                    full of oak groves and covered with a 
                  
                     64 Isaac Vail to his Son, Rahway, 
                                New Jersey
                            , November 17, 1836, MS photostat now owned by W. W. Vail of 
                                Michigan City
                            , Indiana; Winifred Lovering Holman, "Diary of the Rev. James-Hanmer
                            Francis, 1837-1838," 
                                Ohio
                             State Archaeological and Historical Society Quarterly (
                                Columbus
                            , 1887-), LI (1942), 50; Jerusha L. Farnham, "Diary," Log Cabin Days, 
                                Knox
                             College, Centenary Publications (
                        Galesburg, Illinois
                     , 1937), 32; Laws of Indiana, Local,
                            1837-1838, pp. 59-68.
                  
                     65 Evans to his Family and Particular Friends, 
                                Spiceland
                            , 
                                Henry County
                            , November 2, 1839, in Evans Collection; Eleventh Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1890, Population, I, 18; Cady, Indiana Annual
                            Register, 121.
                  
                     66 Lansing B. Swan, Journal of a Trip to 
                                    Michigan
                                 in 1841 (
                        Rochester,
                                    New York
                     , 1904), 29-30; Kellar,
                                Solon Robinson, I, 240-241.
               
                     vegetable loam soil mixed with sand that was as fine as the
                    best garden soil. A multitude of lakes crowned the scenic attractions. He viewed favorably the
                    exhibition of stock which opened the annual fair at 
                        La Porte
                     in October, 1845. A plowing match the second day was followed by an address at the
                    Methodist church and a great dinner. Domestic manufactures were displayed in the courthouse, and the
                    whole enterprise gave Beecher gratifying evidence of public spirit in the county.67
            
            Observations of 
                        La Porte County
                     in the forties were scarce, but it maintained population superiority over its neighbors
                    through that decade reaching 12,145 by 1850.68 Nevertheless, an English visitor
                    in 1853 used to "big cities" spoke of the county seat as the "beautiful
                    small city" of 
                        La Porte
                    , set in a healthy, prolific country that was rapidly changing from wilderness to a
                    highly improved and prosperous area. He admired Pine, Stone, and Clear lakes near the town and
                    estimated that there were nearly four thousand people in the county seat, including ten lawyers and
                    numerous physicians and preachers. The Indiana Medical College had seven instructors and one hundred
                    four students. In addition, numerous public and private schools, two weekly journals, a bank, and a
                    fine academy graced the town, the healthiness and accessibility of which capped its attractions.69
            
            In common with many frontier towns, however, 
                        La Porte
                    's civic improvements failed to keep pace with her population growth. Sticky
                    mud was the prairie town's only pavement in April, 1854, and the dirty country hotel left
                    much to be desired. Settlers suffering from ague that summer fought it with Peruvian bark and whisky
                    bitters, quinine, and blue mass pills. In the fall when the disease had abated for another year,
                    Isaac P. Roberts, who became dean of the Cornell University Agricultural School, spent some time at
                    a pole shanty with a wide unmatched board floor resting on the wet ground on the prairies about
                    thirty miles from town. At least on one occasion a hog came through a large hole in the rear where
                    the chimney and fireplace had fallen down. Although he characterized the land as one of flatness,
                    mosquitoes, and ague, 
                  
                     67
                            The Western Farmer and Gardener, I, 354.
                  
                     68
                            Eleventh Gensus of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1890, Population, I, 18.
                  
                     69 John Reynolds, Sketches of the Country (
                                Belleville
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            , 1854), 145-146.
               
                     Roberts earned $2.121/2 a day and board carpentering in the summer, and $1.25 a day and
                    board teaching school in the winter. In the spring of 1858 he bought forty-eight acres near 
                        Kingsbury
                     just before prices began to fall. Violent money fluctuations partly caused by wildcat
                    paper scrip made a trip to 
                        New York
                     in November quite difficult.70
            
            William Ferguson, an English observer traveling by train from 
                        Toledo
                     to 
                        Chicago
                     in 1856, noted the increasingly rich land which became a heavy black, deep soil covered
                    with thick grass at Terre Coupee. As the decade drew to a close, the 1860 census recorded 22,919 in
                    the county, greater than any northern county through which the Michigan Road passed.71
            
            Unlike the other counties which have been discussed above, 
                        La Porte
                     from its inception supported two cities of the first rank, which largely explained its
                    population superiority. 
                        Michigan City
                     received its primary impetus from the selection of the mouth of Trail Creek as the
                    Michigan Road's northern terminus. Jerry Church of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     who struck the lake at the future town site in the summer of 1830 claimed that his was
                    the first carriage of any kind to come there and that he could not discern another white man within
                    nine to twelve miles. Three years later, however, he found it "considerable of a
                    town," that called itself a city. About the same time a Congregational minister described
                    it as a little cluster of log cabins and rude frame houses on the sandy beach beside a very high hill.72
            
            Two months later a horseback rider from 
                        Niles
                     to 
                        Michigan City
                     stopped at the city's hotel, a small log house with a single room in which
                    eleven or twelve including the host and his wife, were lodged in beds and on the floor. Earlier he
                    would have revolted at such conditions, but he found solace in the sophism that necessity knows no
                    law, and that it was imperative to accommodate one's self to the custom of the country.73
            
            Just a month afterward the town was dismissed as a "puny place" that contained half
                    a dozen houses. Three miles from town eight oxen had to pull a wagon out of the deep 
                  
                     70 Isaac P. Roberts, Autobiography of a Farm Boy
                                    (
                        Ithaca, New York
                     , 1946), 64-73, passim.
                  
                     71 William Ferguson, America by River and Rail (
                                London
                            , 1856), 361; Eleventh Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1890, Population, I, 18.
                  
                     72 A. Monroe Aurand, Jr. (ed.), Journal of Travels,
                                Adventures, and Remarks of Jerry Church (
                        Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
                     , 1933), 27, 35; Sweet, The
                                Congregatlonalists, 239.
                  
                     73 Bessie L. Pierce, As Others See 
                                    Chicago
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1933), 41.
               
                     mudholes, but even in the city's infant condition land
                    lots ran as high as three thousand dollars because of the expectancy of superior shipping advantages
                    when the harbor was made. Hughes, the tavern proprietor impressed a critical guest as "a
                    dumpling headed, short legged, tunbellied lump of assumption," who would never have exerted
                    himself had his wife not kept after him.74
            
            As 1833 drew to a close, Hoffman commented that although the country was still wild enough, the town
                    and harbor were fast coming into notice and spurring other settlements in the area. On an inspection
                    trip in the summer of 1834, the 
                        Logansport
                     missionary, Martin M. Post, was quick to grasp the possibilities of the town which he
                    expected to surpass all others in northern Indiana because it was the state's only port on
                        Lake Michigan. Opportunities for shipping produce and other goods via the
                    Great Lakes were obvious, and he highly approved the federal government's recent
                    appropriation for harbor improvement which was expected to make the settlement the produce depot and
                    center of wholesale merchandising for a large area. Valuable pine timber covered the vicinity except
                    for a luxuriant and extensive prairie eight or ten miles distant. He felt the town was already a
                    place of considerable business with twenty or more families.75
            
            Within the next two years several observers epitomized the great expectations most settlers held for 
                        Michigan City
                    . Having become a small city, its rapid growth was marveled at by the end of 1854, and
                    the fine white pine and mill privileges nearby were duly appreciated. Twenty or thirty houses and
                    twelve stores among the sandhills were counted in early spring of 1835 by a passenger on the
                    "Philip" that plied between 
                        St. Joseph
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    . As yet, however, there was no harbor for vessels, and vague doubts that nature would
                    sanction the determination of the more enterprising citizens to make 
                        Michigan City
                     a large town were voiced.76
            
            Uncertainty was yet uncommon, however, and even settlers in 
                        Lake County
                     had a greater opinion of its potentialities than of 
                        Chicago
                    . Before the end of the year a Presbyterian missionary had been hired, Methodist and
                    Baptist societies 
                  
                     74 David, "A Trip from 
                                London
                             to 
                                Chicago
                            , 1833," 
                        
                                    Michigan
                                 History Magazine, XVIII, 64.
                  
                     75 Hoffman, A Winter in the West, I, 226-227; Post
                            to Peters, 
                                Logansport
                            , July 3, 1834, A.H.M.S. MSS photostats.
                  
                     76 Kellar, Solon Robinson, I, 56; Amos A. Parker,
                                Trip to the West and 
                                    Texas
                                
                      (
                                Boston
                            , 1836), 41, 43.
               
                     were operating, and the town's population was
                    estimated at about seven hundred.77
            
            Three months after the town was incorporated on February 8, 1836, one vessel was noticed unloading in
                    the harbor. Other signs of progress were a recent sale of lots north of the creek that grossed forty
                    thousand dollars and the construction of from fifty to seventy new buildings. Strangers crowded the
                    town in June, and it had become quite a produce center, particularly for pork and wheat. Farmers
                    hauled the latter from as far south as 
                        Crawfordsville
                     and returned with salt.78
            
            Harriet Martineau devoted considerable space to 
                        Michigan City
                    , which she visited in June, 1836. Having heard that fifteen hundred people lived in the
                    town, she found numerous stores and houses in various stages of construction scattered about in the
                    woods, although small swamps and stump-littered streets were objectionable. Residents believed that
                    the beautiful location surrounded by the lake and forests would soon be enhanced by two piers to be
                    built into the harbor. A sandy hill covered with pea vines near the town afforded an excellent view
                    of the lake. The white surf of its tumultuous waters pounded against the shore, and those
                    unaccustomed to large bodies of water were nearly stunned by its "perpetual roar."
                    The inn served a good supper of pork, bread, potatoes, preserves, and tea, but its unplastered walls
                    necessitated screening off the thirty bedchambers. Before retiring, however, the English guest
                    walked along the beach where brilliant flora and the "Sea Serpent of 
                        Chicago
                    " stranded off shore attracted her attention. Three inverted rainbows
                    foreshadowed the crowning beauty, a sunset over the lake. These gradually became urn-shaped, then
                    assumed the form of a glistening golden acorn which soon gave way to a magnification of Saturn and
                    its rings. Finally, the sinking shaft of a golden pillar left only "a lustrous, deep
                    crimson dome, seemingly solid, [which] rested steadily on the heaving waters."79
            
            Near the end of the year some roads northeast of the city toward 
                        Detroit
                     were described as being as beautiful as one could wish, while other stretches gave the
                    impression that they had been created by the devil himself. As Greenlee Davidson approached the city
                    from the south at night in the 
                  
                     77 J. W. Lester, "Pioneer Stories of the Calumet,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII (1922), 171; Three Presbyterian
                            Trustees to Post, 
                                Michigan City
                            , December 15, 1835, A.H.M.S. MSS photostats.
                  
                     78
                            Laws of Indiana, Local, 1835-1836, pp. 8-26; 
                                Michigan City
                            , Indiana, News, Centennial Edition, September, 1935.
                  
                     79 Martineau, Society in America, I, 251-254.
               
                     fall of 1857, he saw nothing more than a sand beach, although
                    his powers of observation were undoubtedly poor, because at that time there were over fifteen
                    hundred people in the town.80
            
            In 1839 pork and grain were still hauled by team to 
                        Michigan City
                     from 
                        Lake County
                     and beyond. Pork sold for a dollar and a half a hundredweight, but often
                    farmers' profit on grain was very small after paying transportation expenses. One tavern
                    often used as a stopping place by traders charged fifty cents for the evening meal, room, and
                        breakfast.81
            
            By the end of 1839 delayed effects of the general economic setback two years previously were felt in
                    the town. All types of business were very dull: wheat was only worth 50¢ a bushel; corn,
                    25¢ a bushel; oats, 20¢ a bushel with no demand; and pork and beef about
                    $3.00 a hundredweight. Scarcity of money helped keep everything at a standstill, although
                    Burr's Hotel had recently been converted into an academy. In operation four months, the
                    school boasted an enrollment of eighty students and was credited with flattering prospects for
                        success.82
            
            Throughout the thirties little notice of 
                        Michigan City
                     other than its location had been taken in the various gazetteer descriptions of
                    northern Indiana, but in 1840 it was called a station on the stage route between 
                        Niles
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    . One guidebook asserted that the population totaled fifteen hundred that year. A later
                    source which used the figures of 1840 noted two lawyers, one doctor, and seven merchants there,
                    Subsequent descriptions prior to 1860 called the town Indiana's only port on Lake
                        Michigan and the site of one of the state branch banks.83
            
            In 1840, Erasmus Manford, a visiting Presbyterian minister on his way to 
                        Michigan City
                     from 
                        Lafayette
                    , had not seen a single house for fifteen miles on either side of the Kankakee. Despite
                    such wilderness conditions in the surrounding area, 
                  
                     80 John Wentworth to his sister, 
                                Chicago
                            , November 9, 1836, 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society News Review (
                                Chicago
                            , 1942-), II (1943), 3; "Diaries of James D. Davidson (1836) and
                            Greenlee Davidson (1857) during Visits to Indiana," contributed by Herbert A.
                            Kellar, Indiana Magazine of History, XXIV (1928), 136.
                  
                     81
                            Historical Records of the 
                                    Lake County
                                 Old Settler and Historical Association … (n.p., 1924), 23.
                  
                     82 W. W. Higgins to Gideon Higgins, 
                                Michigan City
                            , December 8, 1839, MS in Indiana Historical Society Library.
                  
                     83 Scott, Indiana Gazetteer, 118-119; Gideon M.
                            Davison, The Traveler's Guide (
                                New York
                            , 1840), 231; Cady, Indiana Annual Register, 122; Richard S.
                            Fisher, Indiana: In Relation to its Geography, Statistics, Institutions (
                                New York
                            , 1852), 32; J. H. Colton, Cotton's Traveler and Tourist
                                Guide Book (
                                New York
                            , 1855), 36-37.
               
                     Solon Robinson, one of the strong supporters of the former
                    town, took steps the following summer to correct the impression with respect to its location, namely
                    that it was in Indiana and not in 
                        Michigan
                    , and he was still confident that vast quantities of wheat and other produce would be
                    shipped from its harbor. Robinson had to admit, however, that chances for a pork profit were very
                    poor because of the number who had lost money in the attempt the previous fall.84
            
            Doubt was expressed a year later whether the town built among the sand hills could exist were it not
                    for the harbor. Preoccupation with water transportation did not prevent the settlers from hunting,
                    however, especially since all manner of game was common around the town. In 1849 three deer skins
                    and seven minks sold for one hundred dollars, while fox hides brought two dollars and fifty cents in
                    addition to the five dollar bounty. In 1857 deer were hunted over the frozen sand hills near the
                    town, and also in canoes at night. The light from small fires in the bow of the boat reflected in
                    the animals' eyes and made them perfect targets.85
            
            That spring Erastus Beadle, father of the dime novel, passed through 
                        Michigan City
                     on his way to 
                        Nebraska
                    . Accustomed to the size of 
                        New York
                    , he felt the lakeside town could never amount to much. Surrounding sand bluffs that
                    rose two hundred to three hundred feet and were covered with shrubbery and scattered oaks attracted
                    his attention. He climbed one bluff on his hands and knees over a mixture of snow and sand, but his
                    claim that he could thus see one hundred miles in every direction was probably more enthusiastic
                    than accurate.86
            
            At the time there were about three thousand people in the town, fifteen or twenty stores, several
                    hotels, and a branch of the state bank. Although there were several large storehouses at the mouth
                    of Trail Creek for transshipment of wheat and other produce, the town's peak as a trade
                    emporium was passed. 
                        Chicago
                     had assumed the role, partly because the harbor development at 
                        Michigan City
                     never materialized to 
                  
                     84 Erasmus Manford, Twenty-Five Years in the West (
                                Chicago
                            , 1867), 132; Kellar, Solon Robinson, I, 241.
                  
                     85 James L. Scott, A Journal of a Missionary Tour
                                    (
                        Providence, Rhode Island
                     , 1843), 191; Thomas H. Cannon, History of the Lake and Calumet Region of Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1927), I, 176-177.
                  
                     86
                            To 
                                    Nebraska
                                 in '57: A Diary of Erastus F. Beadle (
                                New York
                            , 1923), 4.
               
                     a sufficient degree. Over a year later the cosmopolitan touch
                    was added to previous descriptions of the town when Isabella Trotter, an English gentlewoman, came
                    upon the "very remarkable spot" and compared the high dunes to those on the French
                    coast. Both were composed of deep, loose sand covered with a solid crust bound together by little
                        shrubs.87
            
            Even the most cursory examination of the five counties of northern Indiana served by the Michigan
                    Road supports the conclusion that something more than the road, important though it was, was
                    necessary for the greatest development of those areas. In fact, it would be oversimplification to
                    attribute their growth solely to the road. 
                        Marshall
                     and 
                        Fulton counties
                    , particularly the latter, lagged far behind the other three in population by 1860.
                    Since those three—Cass, 
                        St. Joseph
                    , and 
                        La Porte
                    —were served by other important means of transportation, undoubtedly such
                    additional facilities at least partly accounted for their greater progress.
            In 
                        Cass County
                     the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal was a major influence, and in addition by 1860 
                        Logansport
                     had become an important station for at least eight railroad lines. As the Michigan Road
                    declined in importance, these other facilities supplied the deficiency and carried the county to new
                    heights. The importance of the St. Joseph River to 
                        St. Joseph County
                     has been indicated, and the latter also benefited because of its position straddling
                    important east-west roads. Finally, 
                        La Porte County
                     combined the most advantageous features of river and land transportation opportunities. 
                        Michigan City
                     was both the northern terminus of the Michigan Road and also the state's only
                    harbor on Lake Michigan. Although the town did not fulfill its
                    supporters' expectations in the latter respect, the very prospects for leadership served as
                    a spur to early emigration. Moreover, 
                        Michigan City
                     and 
                        La Porte County
                     enjoyed a strategic location along the 
                        Chicago
                     to 
                        Detroit
                     road, one of the most important east-west routes through northern Indiana. At the same
                    time that attention was focused on the Michigan Road, travel along the former trail or beach road
                    brought 
                        Lake
                     and 
                        Porter counties
                     into popular attention.
            
               
                  87 John Disturnell, A Trip Through the Lakes of North
                        America (
                            New York
                        , 1857), 101; Isabella Trotter, First Impressions of the New World (
                            London
                        , 1859), 236-237.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            From 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                        California
                     in 1849: The Gold Rush Journal of Elijah Bryan Farnham
            
               Edited by Merrill J. Mattes* and Esley J.
                    Kirk**
            In the first part of the journal, published in the September issue of the Indiana
                        Magazine of History, Farnham related his experiences from Independence, 
                        Missouri
                    , to Green River near La Barge, Wyoming. The concluding portion of
                    the diary which is presented below tells of his journey from Green River to 
                        San Francisco
                    .
            
                    
                  
                     
                        11th [July]
                        
                        Swam our cattle across in the forenoon in the afternoon the Mormons that have the
                                    ferry put our waggons across We gave them 8 dollars per waggon Again 3 O C were
                                    again encamped We hearded our cattle about 3 mis off the ferry The Mormons make a
                                    good lot of money off the passing emigrants not only by ferrying but by buying
                                    broken down oxen at cheap rates and clothin which the emigrants are glad to sell
                                    They told Gold stories to us There were also some 6 or 8 old trappers and traders
                                    some had been out in these wilds so long as to almost have forgotten their
                                    vernacular language.1
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        12th
                        This morning started on a winding and mountainous corse2 found
                                    plenty of water Camped 14 miles from our last had an excellent range of grass for
                                    our cattle and plenty of willow and sage wood near camp
                     
                  
               
                
            
               * Merrill J. Mattes is Regional Historian, Region Two, National Park Service, 
                            United States
                         Department of the Interior, with headquarters in 
                            Omaha
                        , 
                            Nebraska
                        .
               
                  ** Esley J. Kirk, a physician of 
                            Omaha
                        , 
                            Nebraska
                        , is the grandson of Elijah Bryan Farnham.
               
                  1 Here is an interesting historical "flashback." From
                        1823-1824 when it was effectively discovered by Thomas Fitzpatrick, James Bridg-er, and other
                        trappers of William Ashley's Rocky Mountain Fur Company, until 1840, Green
                            River was the setting for intensive trapping forays of the "mountain
                        men" as well as a succession of colorful "rendezvous" or annual
                        carnivals of trading and debauchery which have been vividly described by Bonneville (
                            Washington
                         Irving's Adventures in the Far West, 
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1837), by A. Wislizenus (A Journey to the Rocky Mountains, 
                            St. Louis
                        , 1912), and more recently by Bernard DeVoto (Across the Wide 
                                Missouri
                            
                  , 
                            Boston
                        , 1947). The handful of "old trappers and traders" referred to by
                        Farnham were pitiful relics of this romantic and forgotten era, incapable of adjusting to the
                        new trend of things, unlike Bridger, Fitzpatrick, and Kit Carson who set up trading posts or
                        became professional guides.
               
                  2 Beginning at Names Hill or Big
                        Hill, Sublette's Cut-off had to negotiate mountainous terrain around the
                        headwaters of Ham's Fork of the Green before reaching Bear River
                        near present Cokeville, Wyoming, where it rejoined the Fort Bridger branch of the Trail for Fort
                        Hall.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        13th
                        This forenoon went over a hilly road of steep ups and downs passed by a good many and
                                    mountain streams Nooned near a spring that was shaded by spruce pines 80 or 90 feet
                                    high Passed by a great many springs and runs this P.M. there are a great many runs
                                    caused by the melting of the snow We past a bank of snow near the road where the
                                    snow was about 14 feet deep Camped 1/2 a
                                    mile off the road near a bluff of rocks Had plenty of grass and found plenty of sage
                                    wood to burn it grows thrifty here The air today was full of mosquitoes and as we
                                    were a traveling we had to be continuously brushing with our hankerchiefs
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        14th
                        Got an early start went to Hams fork of Green River it is a good
                                    sisable stream about 21/2 rods wide 31/2 deep Nooned here We saw the Eutau
                                    Mountains to the S. W. ahead of us before getting here we passed a very delightful
                                    looking grove of young cotton woods There were here rose bushes and other rosy
                                    bearing shrubs There were a number of Springs in it In the stream were we nooned, we
                                    caught some trout I saw one in the stream that would weight 6 or 8 lbs For the whole
                                    of the afternoon were continuously assending at first The assent was very steep The
                                    teams had to [a] somewhat winding couse The sides of the hile was ritch and produced
                                    some thrifty looking shrubs and luxeurient grapes headed out In the raviens and more
                                    shady prts were yet snow banks It looked singular to see these hallows filled with
                                    snow while immediately around were grapes headed out There is another singular
                                    characteristick about this hile that is is also applecable to some others about here
                                    It is that while the sides are so steep too steep seemingly to hold again [st] the
                                    washes of the rain were as ritch as the richest alluvial soil of bottom lands. While
                                    the higher bench was too poor to produce the meanest kind of shrubery and I should
                                    not wonder that if it should produce 50 lbs to the acre It certainly has not been
                                    long since the entire surface has been covered with snow vegetation when the snow
                                    once leaves ground must come on twice as fast as in the states After going up about
                                    2 m came to a bench % mile brood then assended gradual at night we camped
                                    by a grove of cotton [wood] and about 3 m from the top our cattle have had a steady
                                    pull this afternoon There was a great many cattle on the side of this hile that had
                                    probably had too hard a pull There was 25 springs in this grove near us This
                                    afternoon found a spring coming out of the steep sides of the ravines and the stream
                                    fell about 50 feet into a natural stone bason underneath The clearest and coolest
                                    water that I ever saw except in these regions Saw today two sage hens they were as
                                    large as geese We saw a great many marmots We have seen more or less for some 200 on
                                    [miles] back A packer put up with us to [day] There are [many] of these going
                                    through now a packing and depending on the charity of those who have [means] It is
                                    now indeed painful to see the numbers that are now reduced to this dreadful
                                    extremity Some to that have never seen anything like hard times before It must be
                                    dreay to them to look forward on the future when provisions will be more  scarce among the trains A dreadful job they have before
                                    them when we consider that yet half the journey lays before them3
                        
                        We are now on the hill that is said to be the dividing ridge of the Eastern side of
                                    the Great Basen it is some hundreds of feet higher here than what the summit of the
                                    Rocky mountains [are] but that place is called the summit not because it is the
                                    highest point on the road but it is because it is the ridge that seperates the
                                    waters of the Atlantic from those that run into the Paciffick4
                                    On one of the hiles that we had descended in the afternoon there was two roads one
                                    the new that our teams took went a great ways around the old went very near directly
                                    down and in one place was a rock of about 10 feet perpindicular hight Those that
                                    passed over this road had to take their waggons apart and let them down by pieces
                                    with rops
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        15th
                        Today we did not move our camp So elevated was our situation that we could look a
                                    great ways over the hiles that in our late journey-ings we had passed over a hundred
                                    of miles or more There is good luxurient grass here and wheat that is headed out
                                    indeed our pasture here contrasts quite favorly with what we have been used to
                                    having There is also patches of wild flax here it is already full grown and begins
                                    to show forth its small blue flower Some 2 or 3 men that were out this morning
                                    hearding cattle came into camp telling that they had seen a grisly bear going into
                                    his den A posse of about 70 of us got ourselves togather took guns and went to his
                                    quarters It was in a ravine one of the wildest of places we had to descend 300 or 6
                                    hundred feet down to the place said to be his castle But with all our noise and
                                    firing we could not induce him to come out So we had not the oppertunity of showing
                                    what we were in a bear fight One man was wounded by a stone being set a roling from
                                    the top of a hill This night we had a rain the first that has happened since we left
                                    the Black hills5
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        16th
                        This morning finished going up the hill Then made a winding decent of 8 miles down it
                                    There was an old road to descend by a Shorter distance But in order to descend
                                    waggons had to be taken apeart This afternoon came on to the Valley of
                                        Bear River One of the most levil that I ever saw Barley
                                    here grows luxurient and there are large extensive patches and they present the
                                    apearance of grain fields one or two weeks before harvest This is a good fertile
                                    loking valley and looks capable of producing grains of various Kinds as well as any
                                    land in the States Yet there is no timber here only small willow bushes that grow
                                        
                              
                                 3 Losing stock and wagons, even losing loved ones, to
                                            stagger onward with hollow eyes and skeleton frames, such was a commonplace
                                            Trail experience. "Seeing the Elephant" was the curious
                                            term used by the 
                                                California
                                            –bound emigrants to describe the accumulation of
                                            hardships and terrors which laid an estimated 20,000 of their number in
                                            Trail-side graves. The journey was a succession of unimaginable trials which
                                            either broke a man or gave him an increment of character which would stand
                                            him in good stead when he reached El Dorado.
                              
                                 4 South Pass marked the Continental Divide. This ridge
                                            merely marked the divide between Bear River and
                                                Green River drainages.
                              
                                 5 That is, Laramie Peak and its foothills, just west
                                            of Fort Laramie, in eastern Wyoming.
                           
                                     close to the margin of the stream6 Had a sprinkle of rain this afternoon We find the musquetoes to be
                                    numerous about here and have to keep our hankerchiefs brigsly playing to keep them
                                    off At evening we turned off to the right and camped between two hills one the most
                                    rugged that I ever saw and camped on a little stream a tributary of the River After
                                    cooking and supper were done away with some went a fishing but did not succeed well
                                    and others kept at their old bussness of playing cards Those that have been using
                                    all their spare time since we started in playing seem as eager now to play when they
                                    get a chance as and others who at first seemed to be dreadfully opposed to seeing
                                    others play now seem to enjoy themselves the best when at a game Thus have some men
                                    [changed] in their notions
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        17th
                        In starting we crossed the stream that we camped on 3 times in going 30 rods Then we
                                    went about 1/2 a mile over the roughest kind
                                    of a road here the waggons went bouncing over the rocks at a fearful rate the rocks
                                    some of them were two or 3 ft high and were thickly over the ground We had to keep
                                    to the side of the waggons and ease them as much as possible while going off of the
                                    higher rocks onto the lower7 Came out of this narrow rocky pass
                                    in the Bear river valley again and went on a course paralell to
                                    the river This valley at first was about one mile wide and then widened out to an
                                    average of about 3 m Went in the afternoon a circular course to avoid a marsh then
                                    crossed Thoma[s] fork of Bear River It was very hard getting
                                    out of the river at the ford the bank was steep and the road was sideling A team
                                    ahead of us belonging to another camp turned over in going up the bank8 I saw thousands of acres of good mowable grass and also large patches of
                                    wild flax Camped about a mile from the river having made about 2% miles
                                    this stretch And our cattle grased in the extensive meadow of tall grass We had to
                                    cross the river for our wood.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        18th
                        This morning began traveling over a Mountinous road of long and steep assents and
                                    desents We got over in to the Bear river valley again at noon
                                    There were a great many wigams near our noon halt9
                                    
                              
                                 6
                                            Bear River Valley was one of the bright spots on the
                                            journey. After the unfriendly desert and mountain stretches of
                                            Sublette's Cut-off, to the weary Easterner it offered pleasant
                                            homelike scenery and plentiful fuel, water, and game. Mosquitoes were almost
                                            the only sour note in this happy interval. Bear River
                                            describes a great hairpin turn northward into present 
                                                Idaho
                                            , then south to empty into the Great Salt Lake. The main 
                                                California
                                             Trail left it at the northern end of the hairpin, to go further
                                            north to Fort Hall, on Snake River, or to follow the
                                            Hudspeth-Myers' Cut-off west and southwestward.
                              
                                 7 After viewing the valley of the Bear from the
                                            headwaters of Muddy Fork, the travelers still had a tedious descent to make
                                            here.
                              
                                 8 Smith's Fork was named for Jedediah Smith,
                                            one of the most illustrious of the famous Rocky Mountain trappers, who many
                                            times hibernated in this valley. Farnham is apparently in error in
                                            designating this as Thoma[s] Fork.
                              
                                 9 The Shoshone or Snake Indians, whose thieving
                                            tendencies and lousiness were common to all Indians of the period, were the
                                            first red men to be seen in their native habitat since Farnham left the
                                            Sioux at the South Platte crossing. The Shoshone, unlike the Sioux, remained
                                            friendly to the white men throughout the frontier period, possibly because
                                            their mountain homeland was not so much coveted by the whites. Chief
                                            Washakie, for whom their present reservation in Wyoming is named, gets much
                                            of the credit for this state of affairs.
                           
                                     There were the habitations of the Shoshones or
                                    Snake Indians They came to our camp and would sit down by us while we were eating If
                                    we choose to give them anything they would take it without saying much The squaws
                                    came to camp with their papooses leashed on their backs These were fixed in a kind
                                    of a leather basket when at rest they managed them quite handily they sit them down
                                    on the ground or when at home hang them up in the baskets by the leather strings
                                    with little ones tied to a pole We tried in vain to buy a pony of these Indians We
                                    sold one of our sick to one Mr Smith who makes his home here with these Indians We
                                    had 7 more sick and lame cattle but we thought we could get them along Mr Smith told
                                    us that we were about 100 miles from ft Hall The grass here is from 21/2 to 3 feet high and is of the most nutritious kind
                                    a fine mountain grass And there is patches of wild wheat breast high Mr Smith says
                                    that he has raised potatoes and wheat here.10 There is also a
                                    Mormon living here wife and family among these Indians Went 6 m over a level road
                                    and thru a butiful valley and camped on Tullucks fork of Bear
                                        river.11
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        19th
                        We started early and in the A.M. passed a good many small streams of pure running
                                    water and one spring and this afternoon crossed plenty of runs and passed springs of
                                    water of the purest kind The roads this day were extremely dusty but they were good
                                    although they were a good deal hilly We finished our travil by traveling through a
                                    canyon 1 mile long and just wide enough for the road Camped by a small run skirted
                                    by willow bushes so that here we had wood handy The ground around here is thickly
                                    strewn with lavy Indians came to our camp a visiting
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        20th
                        In traveling about 6 miles came to a stream that was colored red by oxide of iron Its
                                    banks were also red And when the rough at the bottom was stirred up it resembled the
                                    settlings of an old cider cask After crossing this we went to some white looking
                                    mounds There we found little circular basons on the top of each of these into which
                                    the water is forced up out of the ground to file These mounds are white or red
                                    acording to the nature of the water that runs out of the springs The water in some
                                    of these springs are warm and in all these springs whether warm or cold it keeps in
                                    a kind of bubbling agitation Of these white mounds the ground seems hollow
                                    underneath The white 
                              
                                 10 The "Mr. Smith" of whom Farnham
                                            speaks was not Jedediah Smith, for he died in 1831 at the hands of Comanche
                                            Indians. It was possibly Thomas L. or "Peg Leg" Smith, a
                                            well-known old mountain man who had a Shoshone squaw. See 
                                                Georgia
                                             Willis Read and Ruth Gaines (eds.), Gold Rush: The
                                                Journals, Drawings, and other Papers of J. Goldsborough Bruff, Captain, 
                                                    Washington City
                                                 and 
                                                    California
                                                 Mining Association, April 2, 1879-July 20, 1851 (
                                                New York
                                            , 1949), 618-619; Irene D. Paden, The Wake of the 
                                                    Prairie
                                                 Schooner (
                                                New York
                                            , 1944), 272-273.
                              
                                 11 Tulloch was another old-time trapper. The creek,
                                            also known as Thomas' Fork, was just above the present 
                                                Idaho
                                             State Line.
                           
                                     rocks of the mounds are in layers and are
                                    continually forming from the over flowing waters There were some springs each on an
                                    oblisked shape rock these had all ceased boiling over the top The water merely
                                    raising into the bason of and then falling back and disapering out of sight On[e] a
                                    red colored mound was a large one entirely extinct12 Went from
                                    these about 2 miles crossed a small stream an affluent of Bear
                                    River Camped in a butiful Pine grove in the immediate vicinity of a
                                    number of bur [beer] springs Among this collections are some 10 or 12 feet in
                                    diameter and 5-6 feet deep and are in a constant bubbling motion &
                                    continually throwing up a kind of efferuessing gas so that it is impossible to drink
                                    the water immediately out of the springs The water to some had a kind of an
                                    agreeable acid taste while others could not drink of them at all
                        Off about a half a mile from this group of springs was the most admirable of all this
                                    went by the name of steamboat Spring The bason of this spring was about one ft
                                    across and it was situated in the top of a rock that was about 3 feet high this was
                                    red coulloured from the oxide of iron contained in the water The water spoutted out
                                    to the variable hight of from 2 to 3 ft acompanied with a noise resembling the
                                    puffing of a steamboat Near this were also two springs that were evidently supplied
                                    by the same current of water for the action of these waters were semmultaneous Near
                                    this were extinct mounds with basons crator shapped and large in dimensions off near
                                    the Bluffs on the right of the road there are the craters of a great many of these
                                    extinct springs one we found emitted a kind of gas of a sulfurick smell strong
                                    enough to knock one back that was presumtuous enough to stick his nose close to the
                                    hole Everything near and around these springs & the springs themselves
                                    excite in those that see them an intense interest because every one that looks at
                                    them cannot be asshured that there is powerful and mysterious agency here at work
                                    and the conclusion is that fire and water have been in some former times preforming
                                    buisy opperations and concives that these extinct cratures or basons to have been
                                    Geyser like those now existing in Iceland in Proximity to Heckly a throwing water to
                                    the hight of 300 feet or more Such these have undoubtly been is the conclusion one
                                    comes to in looking at them and the country around. After 4 hours rest that we had
                                    taken here merely for the purpose of inspecting this place and drinking the waters
                        We started on and in 4 miles came to deer hill13 here the river
                                    that had been running a westernly course now ran to the south We here took a cut off
                                    which [with] mires as a guide a camp of Mo [Missourians]
                                    
                              
                                 12 The curious phenomena of Beer Springs, Steamboat
                                            Spring, and Soda Springs, in the vicinity of the present 
                                                Idaho
                                             town of Soda Springs, were noted and described in detail by
                                            almost all the overland journalists. The Soda Springs are still in evidence
                                            but the others have been submerged in recent years by a reservoir.
                              
                                 13 This was also known as Sheep Rock. At this parting
                                            of the ways the Farnham party chose the Hudspeth-Myers Cut-off instead of
                                            continuing northward to Fort Hall, a trading post set up in 1834 by the New
                                            Englander, Nathaniel Wyeth, and taken over in 1836 by the Hudson's
                                            Bay Company. The majority who took the regular Fort Hall route then followed
                                            down the south bank of the Snake River, crossing Port Neuf, Bannock, Fall,
                                            and Raft Rivers, thence turning up the Raft to meet the
                                            "cut-offers" at the mouth of Cassia Creek. Historians are
                                            of the opinion that this "cut-off," like most of the
                                            others, was an illusion, saving few miles and, while it saved some river
                                            crossings, it was otherwise over much tougher terrain. To judge from
                                            Farnham's statement, the cut-off was opened up just before his
                                            arrival by the "Company of Missourians," probably that of
                                            Hudspeth and Myers themselves. This explains the wording, "with
                                            mires as a guide."
                           
                                     had entered on as pilot yesterday at noon
                                    although not a waggon had been on before that time The travil since had worn it so
                                    it now looks like an old road of a good deal of travil Our course now was a kind of
                                    a w [western] direction here where we left the river to come on it no more the banks
                                    were so rocky and perpendicular that we could not get any water out of it We passed
                                    an old extinct crater of a Volcano off to the left of the road about one mile In
                                    going to this we went down a hill rough with lava rocks that by some volcanic
                                    eruption had forced out so as to give a buldging appearance to the side of the hill
                                    What a grand power has been operating here to thus run up these high hills The
                                    volcano crator is a oval shaped hill with a crator 100 yards in diameter We went 8
                                    miles across the valley after taking the cut off and would have camped here had we
                                    found water but no finding any we went 4 miles further into the hills & when
                                    dark overtook us camped at last with out any water
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        21th
                        This morning went 3 miles & came to a stream of the cool beverage here we
                                    breakfast and watered till noon and then went on again & over a succession
                                    of hills found a stream in 6 m & another in 9 m on the latter we camped This
                                    latter was a large stream & on the banks grew an impenatrable thicket of
                                    willows There is a of volanick rocks the den of innumerable snakes
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        22th
                        Sunday Did not move our camp A man in our company having traded horses with an Indian
                                    Yesterday others came back today for a bargin but did not get it We had two showers
                                    today one with thunder
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        23th
                        This morning for 10 miles had a good road through a hilly country and perfectly free
                                    from dust that had been layed by yesterdays rains Our cattle too seemed to look
                                    slicker and better by being washed by them They too had good pasture at our last
                                    camp We saw Indians today more filthy than any that we had before seen These are the
                                    diggers a tribe the most degraded of all These it is said live upon ants &
                                    grasshoppers anything that crawls Yes they pick lice out of their heads and eat them
                                    We saw them do it. And we did not wish to be near them14 This
                                    afternoon went 7 m and as we traviled over our new road we could not but admire it.
                                    It seemed so well to avoid the steep pitches and the places it went through the
                                    hills seemed to be the only practible ones camped on a good cool stream crossed over
                                    on 1/2 m before having a natural bridge over
                                    it the hills here are thickly covered 
                              
                                 14 No one ever had nice things to say of the Diggers,
                                            a root-digging, poor-relative branch of the Shoshone who lived on the
                                            fringes of the Great Basin.
                           
                                     with Junipers bushes The duties here are
                                    tiresome and at night all feel fatigued
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        24th
                        We commenced at 6 O C Our winding way over hills and through mountain gaps There was
                                    a fine field of grass along here and wild wheat grew brest high There was a good
                                    deal wild sage nooned in 12 m from our last nights camp In the afternoon after going
                                    one mile came to large [spring] 120 yds in circumference it had a fine gravil bottom
                                    This afternoon after leaving the spring traviled up a kind of canyon in 7 m the top
                                    this kanyon was just wide enough for a waggon & no more It was high time to
                                    camp when we were at the top of this but there was no water here and we not knowing
                                    but we should find plenty of water had [not] furnished ourselves with any We made 5
                                    miles of a desent to the nearest valley and then did not find any and as saw teams 2
                                    miles ahead of us on the nearestside hill going on as if they had found no water we
                                    gave up the serch for the night Went to rest supperless and thirsty
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        25
                        This morning got up from fevered slumbers started on the breakfast when we found
                                    water We crossed over one hill after another without finding any water in the
                                    valleys between some had begun to suffer but about HOC we saw the distant peack of a
                                    snowcapped mountain ahead This drove away all apprehension of iminent danger But we
                                    got to a spring about 12 O C Then we dissipated on this as it then seemed the most
                                    luxurious of all beveriges This afternoon had an election of officers in our com
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        26th
                        Soon as daylight dawned we were on the road and for the whole day wended our way
                                    through a narrow mountain pass found plenty of water today and at night camped in a
                                    grassy valley of 50 or 60 acres and on a considerable stream To night finished our
                                    election
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        27th
                        After travling 4 miles came out into a large extensive valley over grown with
                                    artimesia and little burry weeds in this valley The large stream that we camped on
                                    last night lost itself in the desert sands After getting a little ways into this
                                    every thing assumed a most arid aperence The cobble stones had a burnt aperence and
                                    the air was filled with a cloud of white dust Went 18 miles across this arid place
                                    and at night camped on raft [?] river15 We are now thru the cut
                                    off
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        28th
                        This day we found plenty of water all along To night camped on Rattle snake creek one
                                    mile off the road had good feed though rather dead and dry and willow bushes for
                                    fuil
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        29th
                        Still kept encamped
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        30
                        This morning set out and wended our way through hills rough & rocky found
                                    plenty of water and tonight had greasewood and sage for fuil16
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  15 Raft River.
               
                  16 At the head of Cassia Creek, originally Cache Creek, unnoticed or at
                        least unnoted by Farnham, was another scenic feature of the Trail— City of Rocks.
                        Just beyond this was Junction Valley, where the main Trail was joined by a
                        direct wagon road from 
                            Salt Lake City
                        .
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        31st 
                        Had 7 miles to go to get to goose creek In 2 miles came to a run in crossing this run
                                    an axeltree broke this caused a stop of 1/2
                                    hours We now went over hills the roughest road was a bad one and would not have been
                                    practible to any but a 
                                        California
                                     emigrant17 The trale on the hill sides was so
                                    sideling that we had to hold up the waggons to keep them from turning over. Aggain
                                    it went over the high clifty tops Then the descents were frightful to look at We
                                    rough locked them and pulled back on them with our ropes To look up at waggons
                                    coming down it did not seem as if they could be held back to come down steady but
                                    yet they were To look up at the waggons toward the top they looked as if they were
                                    on end After reaching goose creek we traviled up along it 11 miles and camped for
                                    the night there is about 60 or 70 rods wide bottom long along this creek On the
                                    right ha[n]d side of the creek is a range of high hills with perpendicular sides the
                                    top appear to be over jutting on this side
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        August The 1st
                        Followed along goose creek and its tributaries 9 m Then in 4 m passed by a collection
                                    of warm springs Then passed by a body of execavated sand stone rocks struck again
                                    the creek followed it 5 miles further it run through a rocky Kanyon high on each
                                    side with rough back looking bassalt rocks The hills looked like a pile of rocks
                                    They were so bare of earth we were visited by some Indians while at the warm
                                        springs18 We left the stream 3 0 C in the afternoon After
                                    filling our kegs with water Then after traviling tile night camped in the sage plain
                                    here there was no grass for our cattle
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        2th
                        Went 7 miles to water here we found several spring ishing out at the foot of a
                                    bassalt rock These were warm yet the water could be drank We then went 4 m to a well
                                    and nooned by There was grass here & we gave the cattle 4 hours to eat here
                                    we filled our kegs and went 6 m here we found good grass in a flat that was about
                                        11/2 miles wide We have been passing
                                    this afternoon over hills of white clay & the stones were of the same coulor
                                    here are sage & greesewood & Juniper bushes
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        3rd
                        We traveld 10 m through the same valley Came to several Springs boiling up out of the
                                    ground in 4 m came to a stream passing down the valley near this a stream of hot
                                    water run alongside of the road off from the road were hot springs in the immediate
                                    vicinity of these were 
                              
                                 17 This is a masterpiece of understatement.
                                            Substantial portions of the great covered wagon road have, since the Gold
                                            Rush, been visited by only the most adventurous ranchers or antiquarian
                                            researchers. Considering the incredible terrain over which the Forty-niners
                                            had to travel, their success in getting even a substantial fraction of their
                                            wagons through to their goal is a lasting triumph of the human spirit. Here
                                            the emigrants crossed Granite Mountain before reaching the head of Goose
                                            Creek, following which southwesternly course took them across the northeast
                                            corner of present Nevada.
                              
                                 18 From Goose Creek to the head of Humboldt
                                                River drainage, a succession of Warm Springs—Rock
                                            Spring, Emigrant Spring, and the seepages of Thousand Springs
                                                Valley—make life tolerable.
                           
                                     cold springs and mile from these we found a
                                    good spring by which we encamped 3 cattle mired here in the spring We had to pull
                                    them out
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        4th
                        Travild 6 miles & came to some good Springs then assended a mountain range
                                    went 2 miles to the summit & 2 miles down it to the other side We here
                                    nooned There was no water here only in a hole that we soon exhausted Some Indians
                                    came here to us The road forked again we took the right hand one and in 4 m we came
                                    to a stream of water one tributaries of the Humbolt Went along it 3 m camped in a
                                    Kanyon Had good feed for our cattle and willow wood
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        5th
                        Lay still today we have now 2 on the sick list Capt H & H.D. An ox swamped in
                                    the stream and we had to pull him out
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        6th
                        We went 4 miles over a descending rocky road & crossing the creek 9 times in
                                    gettin out of the Kanyon On each side of this there huge piles of bassaltie rock In
                                    this kanyon was a warm spring 15 ft long 8 ft wide We here went through a valley
                                    & the stream here lost itself in the sands only apearing puddles at
                                    intervalls
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        7th
                        After 6 miles travil came to another branch of the humbolt and crossed it And 4 miles
                                    lower down we saw the main humbolt c[r]ossing down the mountain on our right running
                                    near a western course went along the river two miles and nooned There is good grass
                                    here and patches of wild flax a line of Willows mark the cours of the stream Nor was
                                    this valley entirely lacking in floral buties. There were here patches of blue
                                    flowers and the vareious greeswood was toped with a yellow flower19 The mountains that were covered white with the fresh fallen snow now began
                                    to show some lure [bare] spots
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        8th
                        Travild 4 miles and came to the end of the valley We then travild rather a west
                                    direction over the bluffs here river makes its way through the mountain We now
                                    ocasionly tuck [track] the river 8 miles travil over these bluffs brough us into a
                                    valley of the river 2 m wide The water here is not verry good but the stream is
                                    still increasing grass good went 6 miles down the valley and stoped for the night D
                                    T 18 m
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        9th
                        We travild 10 down the same valley At the end of this valley we found a road runing
                                    west over the mountains 
                              
                                 19 After descending Bishop Canyon, the travelers
                                            crossed over to Humboldt Wells, near present Wells, Nevada, to pause there
                                            before undertaking the ordeal of Humboldt River. For all of its stingy and
                                            fetid water, its rockiness, choking dust, skulking Ute and Diggers, and
                                            rotted carcasses, this was the lifeline to 
                                                California
                                            . The Trail crossed and recrossed the thin stream tortuously in
                                            a vain effort to find a smooth grade. At times it cut across stretches of
                                            outright desert. Over half of the animals were lost on the Humboldt stretch,
                                            either run off by the natives or collapsed from exhaustion. The Humboldt,
                                            named by Frémont for the famous German traveler, was originally
                                            called Mary's River, so-named for the wife of the Hudson's
                                            Bay trader, Peter Skene Ogden. The old Trail along the Humboldt is roughly
                                            followed by the present U.S. Highway 30.
                           
                                     We kept a S.W. Course Followed the river in its
                                    meandering Course through the mountain Crossing it 4 times in going 6 miles Grass
                                    scarce D T [Day's travel] 22 Yesterday I for the first [time] have to
                                ride
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        10th
                        We travild A M [6 miles?] West Had a good road There was not much grass Crossed a
                                    stream of good cool water Went 1% m after crossing this & camped
                                    for the remainder of the day
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        11th
                        Left the river as soon as we started travild over steep bluffs for 10 m and came to a
                                    Spring but there was not enough water here so the cattle could drink Here we went
                                    into a deep Canyon which we followed 8 miles Then we came to the river valley here 2
                                    m wide and went down it 2 m the valley here was good deal overgrown with sage
                                    & grass was very scarce
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        12th
                        Sunday Traviled down the river valley here bounded by mountains on both sides Found
                                    tollerable grass in places The white dust lay in the road 5 or 6 inches deep and
                                    there was all the while a cloud of it in the air D T 15 m
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        13th
                        We still travild down the river & crossed it once Its course is marked by a
                                    dark line of willows This is our fuil here The grass is very scarce and sundried D T
                                    14 m
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        14th
                        At first we had a strong piece of road left the river for ten miles then came on it
                                    again and followed the corse of it through a wide valley found good grass
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        15th
                        Sumtimes travild along the river and Sumtimes over bluffs away from it
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        16th
                        Began by traveling 6 miles in a circuitous direction Then left the river and went 6
                                    miles through a canyon Then left the river and went then 4 miles down the river
                                    & camped D T 18 m grass poor The valley near the river which we have of late
                                    been passing over although so disty now I conclude must at some Seasons be a perfect
                                    marsh This I infer from the quantity of shells here so numerous as to whiten the
                                    ground we had a Sprinkle to day it has been cloudy two or 3 days past
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        17th
                        We commenced our days Journey by Crossing a deep mily [miry] slough of Alkili strong
                                    as a wet pile of ashes Then continued our Course down the river valley We had deep
                                    dust and plenty of wind to make it circulate I did not have to ride this afternoon
                                    There are high mountains on both sides of the valley here about 4 miles wide A man
                                    and two small boys went past us with their packs on their back they had packed from
                                    the willow Springs There are a great many packers along here now they have a great
                                    time of it a camping in the willows or in the dust plains at night without tenting
                                    We had good grass to night
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        18th
                        Still continued our route down the valley There was not a cloud except it is of dust
                                    to be seen The valley was here full 15 miles wide We have had Sand road it was easy
                                    to the Catties feet but hard  to get over We had
                                    sand hills to go over that took hard pulling We crossed the river to the left hand
                                    side of it One of our men G.G—in shooting gun that had been loaded for
                                    some time had it busst in his hands Causing a flesh wound in his right arm The
                                    members of our Company have been exempt X untile this from any acidents arising from
                                    from the discharge of fire arms Yet from the carlessness with which guns have been
                                    handled the escape from such acidents has been more from good luck than from than
                                    from the risk of those that shoot
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        19th
                        Sunday Layed by untill 7 0. C then went on 6 miles We passed a Company that had been
                                    laying by on account of the indians having Stole their Cattle last night some of the
                                    Company had chased the Indians into the mountains but the Indians kept them at bay
                                    by roling rocks down onto them from the peaks The indians commit a great
                                    depredations of this kind of late Sometimes they yet come with but a great many
                                    times escape with impunity
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        20th
                        Went 2 m & crossed to the right hand side of the river In a mile from th[is]
                                    came to road that left the river for 14 m 1/2 m from this came to another one & in a mile from this another going
                                    to the right this we took This was 13 m to the river again from acounts this was the
                                    best road not so sandy as the other two our only hard place was going up a sand hill
                                    from the river bottom Our cattle had nothing to eat this night but willows and
                                    bulrushes
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        21th
                        Started early traveld until 11 O.C. A.M. and having went 7 m remained here until 1 0.
                                    c P M to let our cattle fill themselves all they could they had to do on Willow
                                    & bulrushes Now we took the dessert road We went 14 m and stoped to take
                                    supper after one hours stop again went on The mountains which in the last rays of
                                    the sun on yesterdays afternoon looked like a blue cloud to our front now had the
                                    same indistinct aperence to our rear The night was warm and comfortable
                        At 10 O.C. on the morning of the 22 We stopped to take our breakfast at this place
                                    was wells dug in the white clay but we were unable to get water either for ourselves
                                    or cattle one or two crackers a handful of beans and a coupple swallows of water had
                                    to do us for breakfast & dinner & supper which we took at one
                                    sitting Started on after two hours rest and kept on a continual move untill 7 O. C.
                                    at night here we terminated our desert march by coming to a hot spring as large as a
                                    good sised lake anothere was obnoxious Sulfurick smell that came from it Yet we had
                                    got over safe we suffered a little for water but not as much as we might if some had
                                    [not] rode ahead and fetched [some] back for the rest There was some on the deasert
                                    of whom it looked like a hard sight that they would get over. This is a hard place
                                    on cattle it makes them give out fast There was one train had the forth of their
                                    cattle give in going up one hill so that they had to leave them and in the latter
                                    part of the road when sandy the cattle were given out to a surprising rate some of
                                    the first left were dead the others generally had about enough life to turn up their
                                    heads to look at us as we  passed Thus they were
                                    in every direction Thus finished our desert journey of about 60 m here our cattle
                                    got drink but no grass
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        23rd
                        Went 5 miles to grass here we found another very large hot spring temperature 184 deg
                                    There was fiddling and dancing in the camp tonight
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        24th & 25th
                        Lay by till 2 O. C P M then tired another desert march This was 25 m across had a few
                                    miles of bad sand road We got across in a very weary state Three of our cattle gave
                                    out of our teams The valley here is extensive we got water in a glade shaded by
                                    bull-rushes High Mountains rise at the terminations of the valley on every side A
                                    train got in here last night for Oragon City20 it is of 12
                                    waggons & has an escort with it of 2 officers & 2 privates When they
                                    came to our camp we drank down their talk with gapping wonder They were going to Ft
                                    Hall An old mountaineer started out to find a road to the head waters of the humbolt
                                    The trains were to lay here till he got back They had but got 12 m out till they
                                    came across 4 Indians and got in an affray with them A man with Scott was killed
                                    & himself was wounded The man killed was shot through the back
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        26
                        Lay by the Origan train buried the man that was killed yesterday they dug his grave
                                    and put him down in the middle of the hard road
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        27
                        After getting our teams again in motion we went 8 miles to a kanyon There were two
                                    roads that led over this ridge into the Kanyon The right hand road was so hard to
                                    assend that the teams had to double the left was [easier] to assend by [but] bad to
                                    decend Then after crossing a little valley we came into a kanyon 21 miles in length
                                    This a passage between 2 perpendicular walls of bassatick rock 3 & 400 feet
                                    21 m long and in some places just wide enough to admit the waggon track between
                                    Passed a cave of considerable size in the rocks To night had all that was needful
                                    for camping
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        28th
                        Continued our road through the kanyon which had now got to be a tiresome one to us
                                    road some part stony The wind blew through here with great force and violence Saw
                                    two waggons to day that had been upset in pools of 5 or 6 feet in depth at the side
                                    of the road This evening got out into a valley 2 m long by % wide We
                                    camped in this valley
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        29th
                        Crossed this valley and came into another Kanyon 4 miles in length passage very
                                    difficult here a stream run through and we had to drive along on the rough bed of
                                    rocks at the bottom of it Camped soon after getting through this There was a large
                                    concorse of trains with us
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        30th
                        Took an early start and went through a region of sage passed sage a shallow stream in
                                        Sage Valley kamped in a Kanyon % m from the
                                    lake.
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  20 The 
                            Oregon City
                         train probably reached the Humboldt by a route pioneered in 1846 by the Applegates,
                        through northern 
                            California
                        .
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        31st
                        Made 2 moves today but did not go in all but 3 m
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        September 1th
                        went 15 to dry lake and crossing it camped without water We were now in 6 miles from
                                    the mountain but coud not see them distinctly21
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        2d
                        Commenced our travil along the border of the dry the lake bed of the through a grassy
                                    valley The tall Siera was on our left Covered with magnificent finery [pines?] along
                                    its whole extent There pines coverd hills contrasted well with those barren plains
                                    There were plenty of streams a running from the mountains The prospect was that our
                                    Suffering for water was over Camped on the eastern base of the mountain for the last
                                    time For to morrow by good luck we expected to cross
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        3d
                        This morning Commenced the assent got up part of the waggons at a time because we had
                                    double teams got across this ridge of the mountain & 4 miles into the valley
                                    on the other side and camped near a pine grove water & grass we We found in
                                    plenty
                        A waggon belonging to Cammels parted from the team that was ahead of the tounge and
                                    dashed down the mountain side with the tounge yoke to it The trees here are the
                                    largest that I ever before saw Thare are gients in comparison to others trees of 7
                                    or 8 feet is not unusual or to see them 200 ft hi
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        4th
                        Went past goose lake a large body of shallow water Camped to night near bogg spring
                                    passed streams every two or 3 miles
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        5th
                        Nooned on Kanyon creek in the evening took by a road that lead off to the right
                                    & camped on the same stream
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        6
                        Last night the indians shot thier arrows into 8 of our Cattle while there was a guard
                                    over them and 4 were killed on the spot They done this and were off again directly
                                    We packed up the cattle that had been killed by the Indians & between us
                                    & the hungry packers that came along we used up the flesh of the dead cattle
                                    so clean that the diggers did not get a morsel for thier pains Started at 7 0. c P M
                                    and got into the main road again Our cattle had good feed this was on Pitt
                                        river
                           22
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  21 Because of his failure to identify geographical features, and his
                        indefinite mileage figures, it is very difficult to trace Farnham's route with
                        exactness through 
                            Nevada
                         and 
                            California
                        . It is clear, however, that, like a great many other Forty-niners, his
                        train's captain decided to follow the above-noted 
                            Missouri
                         train under Myers and Hudspeth, and leave the main Trail at Lassen Meadows. The
                        main Trail dropped south from the vicinity of present Humboldt, Nevada, following the course of
                        the Humboldt River to the Sink, thence crossing the hottest part of the
                        desert to the head of the Truckee and Carson Rivers for a direct approach to Sutter's
                        Fort (
                            Sacramento
                        ). Lassen's Cut-off, taken by the Myers and Farnham trains, headed straight
                        west from the Meadows, across some more scorching desert and the Sierra. Farnham's
                        "Dry Lake" and "Goose Lake" seem to be identifiable with the
                        more commonly known Mud Lake and Honey Lake, the
                        latter astride the Nevada–
                            California
                         line.
               
                  22 The Upper 
                            Sacramento
                         was also known as Pit River. If Farnham really meant this river, then he was far to
                        the north of Lassen Peak, and had wandered off the Trail. As the entry of September 11 proves,
                        the Farnham train, following in the tracks of the train led by Myers, the same who blazed the
                        cut-off through lower 
                            Idaho
                        , made an uncommonly long and unorthodox detour to the north instead of turning west
                        from Honey Lake to the head of Feather River.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        7th
                        After making 18 miles We camped in 2 miles of a mountain gorge or Kanyon
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        8th
                        Got on the 
                                        Sacramento
                                     These having got to the kanyon went 7 m and nooned and in the afternoon
                                    Continued our weary winding way through the kanyon & dark overtook us before
                                    we found a camping place It was in a valley & mires train was there The
                                    river ran through this D T 18 miles The road we went over was bad D T 18
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        10 [9th]
                        
                        Continued our Corse over high hills they were steep and bad crossing In the afternoon
                                    went 11 miles in a valley 25 miles square the largest of the upper 
                                        Sacramento
                                     passed a lake 5 miles before we stoped for the night
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        10th
                        Continued on our route through the valley & finding no grass filled our casks
                                    here & went on the mountain to noon This afternoon we found the roads
                                    rougher & more rocky than any that we had before went over A night Camped
                                    without water after going 8 miles over the mountain Stopped after sundown
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        11th
                        We went 2 m & found water & grass Stopped let our cattle graze
                                    & we took our morning meal From this we went 10 m to grass & water
                                    again This we had to do on a rough mountain road verry rough & rocky the
                                    mountains we passed through were hevily timbered with the tallest of timber On one
                                    hill we had to double teams Our cattle to night ranged among the timber
                        A great many to night were Congratulating themselves on being nearly through Some
                                    have been thinking themselves near through to the Settlements for some time when we
                                    left the Humbolt only two days less than a month ago We expected to reach Fether
                                    river in going 150 m We relied in a One sur [Mister?] Mires who said this could be
                                    done he was an old trapper in these mountains he had in his previous life been on 4
                                    different excurtions a trapping for game in these mountains We thought that he knew
                                    all he pretended to know & could do all the pretended he could do With this
                                    though [t] & with the confidence We had in him that he knew the road as well
                                    as any old teamster of the States knows the pike we followed He with his train had
                                    also guided us once before in a cut off between ft Hale [Hall] & the Salt
                                    lake That time he found us a good road much better than we had expected to find it
                                    and it was so much Shorter than the other ways that we were much pleased with
                                    ourselves in going it We beat by two days teams that took other tracks we expected
                                    to find like advantages here Now we have travild over 4 hundred miles since leaving
                                    the Humbolt A great many are talking about what they will do when they will get into
                                    the Settlements to morrow they are shure to do it They think they already have gone
                                    further than they would have had to in any other  rout to get to a Callifornia settlement to have went to the feather river we
                                    should have turned off by the mud lakes To our left and have drove over thier beds
                                    which these Pioneers or guids expected to find dry like that of the bed of the dry
                                    lake that we travild over a good deal before get- ting to the mountains We could not
                                    do it for then they were said to be to high so After the failure we had to take this
                                    round a bout way This was trying even to the patient to have to travil so far after
                                    imaging themselves to be near in and a great many had harbourd hard thoughts against
                                    Mirer although they were not solicited by him to take this road nor did he himself
                                    prais it up to anybody When he took it he did not encourage any but the special
                                    train that he was guiding through to follow him Yet he took the road himself he was
                                    guiding a train of about 70 waggons there were more Women and Children in it than in
                                    any other train Folks New that he took this they supposed that when he took it to
                                    better himself they supposed that if he could better himself They could stand the
                                    same chance They counted their risks to run as small as his if a train with women
                                    & children could get through they supposed a trane of men of course could
                        With this kind of reasoning they were sufficiently prompted to follow in his track
                                    over this untroden wild We all at this stage of the journey get very anxious to get
                                    out of these wild And to one that had been here as often as he was said to be they
                                    gave thier dependence The confidence that they placed in him the great Deasert
                                    God—as some called him as if he were superhuman The most of the trains
                                    were getting hard run for provision and when we were in a good camp we could not
                                    make ourselves comfortable for this thing was wanting Sume were not entirely out of
                                    all but of some essencial portion Our beef had run out and we were again without
                                    meat We had bread & we had coffee There Were some especily packers that had
                                    nothing of no kind such those that had had to help while they scrimped themselves
                                    But what matterd these things now For to morrow shure every one thought &
                                    said We will be into Lawsons23 There we can certainly get all
                                    that we want So who cares Then we will be over & through and have a joyful
                                    time To night we slept on these anticipations untill The dawn of the
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        12th
                        We went 6 miles to water & breakfasted here we met a party of persons going
                                    the other direction They were out on a scout were going as far as goose lake Lawson
                                    was himself with this party and at the head They gave us news where we were
                                    & fed our iminations with the greatest kind of gold stories
                        What they told us set us back considerable in our journey They all told us that we
                                    were yet 150 miles from the settlements This seemed 
                              
                                 23 The Peter Lassen (‘Lawson")
                                            Ranch, at the mouth of Deer Creek, a tributary of the 
                                                Sacramento
                                            , was the immediate goal of this train. Lassen himself appears
                                            the next day in the role of scout and promoter. He purposely encouraged
                                            emigrants to follow his cut-off to this trading post; but historians have
                                            compared notes and agree that his route, by and large, was just as rough as
                                            the regular direct route to Sutter's Fort, and it was much longer,
                                            even assuming that you did not get lost.
                           
                                     hard to be believe because it not suit our hops
                                    wet it had to be The evidence was made clear by lawson saing so himself and they
                                    also informed us that we had a 36 mile Desert also to go over Meires was the subject
                                    of many a Curse and bitter raviling his situation as leader was an unenviable one It
                                    seems as if to be the leader of an emigrant through a wilderness is one of the most
                                    unenviable distinctions It is now and always was sume may think the children of
                                    Iserel in the Wilderness were a clammersome set but they were nothing more than what
                                    folks now are To night we got in a valley 2 or 3 m long reached it after dark D T 20
                                    m
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        13th
                        This morning the company met for the purpurs of Dissolution all got discharges but
                                6
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        14th
                        This day went 14 m Camped by a lake the head of fether river the stream flowing from
                                    this is about 30 ft wide There is good grass here
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        15
                        Lay by all day the treasure of our company was divided
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        16th
                        To day although we got an early start we only went over 12 m the roads were to bad
                                    camped on feather River The valley was large but the ground was mirey We to night
                                    pulled two oxen out of the mud
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        17th
                        Another steer that had got in the mire We left Went to the valley of the South branch
                                    of the fether river here nooned and Cut grass for the desert ahead
                        A great part of this we cut with our knives In the afternoon went and and was till
                                    long after dark
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        18th
                        Went 9 miles over a very rough stoney crossing a stream a great many times
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        19th
                        Went 12 miles but did not get much grass crossed a stream 4 miles back there was no
                                    valley at this place
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        20th
                        We went about 3 miles fro mour starting place Then we began decending and kept
                                    decending very rapidly the whole forenoon At noon we had got out of the apline
                                    regions into the regeions of Oaks here we had to cut limbs for our Cattle to brows
                                    upon One man cut himself severely with a hatchet by falling on it from the top of a
                                    tree while he had it in his hand in the afternoon We assended and decended hills our
                                    course lay over the most barren mountains that we had seen on the extreme top of
                                    these were oak as high as a mans head or less these were the fulest of acrons of any
                                    trees that ever I saw here on the summit We could see any number of ranges one after
                                    the other and While thus standing on the Summit many an eye was looking to descover
                                    some sign of the promised land for it seemed the eye could look over these and in
                                    the dim blue visty of the distance see the termination the last We desended before
                                    stoping Was very long and steep and a great deal of care was required to get the
                                    waggons down safe We got water tonight by driving them 1/2 miles to water over rough rocks  We also lay at the foot of a hill a little from the
                                    perpendicular this had to be assended if we went any further but we hardly knew
                                how
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        21
                        Here we doubled & threbled teams to get up the hill took us all day and it
                                    was as hard a days walk as we had in the whole seige Our cattle got so tired out at
                                    last that all that 14 yoke could do was to haul up an empty waggon This was a hard
                                    time on both men and cattle For here both man and brute has gest barely enough to
                                    eat to keep alive and enough to give strength We lived on cracers and coffe the
                                    cattle on got scarcely anything
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        22
                        Got underway about 10 O C A M This evening a man met us with some beef cattle he
                                    kiled one for the trains here It came good being the first meat we had for some time
                                    We could hardly restrain our apetites in any thing of a proper degree
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        23
                        This day about 12 O C We got to deer creek This ended our journey to Californy for we
                                    were now Near One of the Settlements yet we were 120 from 
                                        Sacramento
                                     Citty and about 300 from San francisco We stayed here 3 days
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Confederate States of America, 1861-1865. By E. Merton Coulter. A History of the South, Volume VII. (
                  Baton
                        Rouge: Louisiana
                State
                    University Press and the Little-field Fund for Southern History of the University of 
                        Texas
                    , 1950, pp. xiv, 644. Index, illustrations, critical essay on authorities.
                    $7.00.)
            This volume is the best history of the Confederate States; as a matter of fact, it is the only
                    history that covers the many aspects of the efforts of the eleven states to establish their
                    independence. All previous works have been heavily weighted in favor of military campaigns; Coulter
                    has relegated that topic to one ably-written forty-page chapter. Perhaps, he has overly
                    de-emphasized this phase, but in the final analysis he has helped to put military activities in the
                    proper perspective. In justification of his apportionment, he points out that his work is a history
                    of the South and not of the war principally, but indicates that
                    since there was little not related to the war, "in these pages where the war is not, its
                    shadows fall."
            This is a true history of the Confederate States in that it tells how the nation came into being;
                    what forces directed it; how it functioned; and, when it went to war, how it managed the many
                    domestic problems attendant to the conflict; how the purely military matters were directed or
                    misdirected; what the people did during the struggle; and what factors were most important in the
                    failure of the nation to achieve its objective.
            In examining the birth of the nation, Coulter probes into the many probable causes that have been
                    advanced and concludes that although slavery was undoubtedly a potent factor, "more
                    powerful than slavery was the Negro himself." After this acceptance of Phillips'
                    "central theme of Southern history," the author says that it was "what
                    lay back of the institution of slavery and was made possible by it which mattered most to
                    Southerners—not simply the money value of slaves" (p. 11). What was made
                    possible by the institution in this instance was the conservative way of life which the Southerners
                    desired to protect against the "infiltration of Northern radicalism."
                    Consolidation and concentration of government were more dreaded than disunion, and the revolt  of conservatism against the modernism of the North was the
                    "normal reaction of an isolated landed civilization against the world currents of trade and
                    industry" (p. 13). The South felt that equality and safety were no longer available in the
                    Union, so she withdrew from those who seemed to delight in insulting her and celebrated this
                    withdrawal as if a burden had been lifted. Coulter feels that secession was a counterrevolution
                    rather than a revolution (p. 25), though later statements (i.e., p. 113) seem to modify his earlier
                    conclusion. Whatever the war or the movement might be called, the discussion of the background of
                    the Confederacy is clear, mature, and levelheaded.
            It is interesting to note, as Coulter carefully points out, that the individuals who had been so
                    prominent in fanning the flames of secession—such men as Rhett, Ruff in, and
                    Yancey—received no position of prominence in the new government, and though not happy
                    about this they were not the greatest of the troublemakers. Davis and Stephens are depicted as men
                    highly in keeping with the conservative nature of the Southern movement. The failure to submit the
                    constitution to the vote of the people caused some dissatisfaction, but this is not considered a
                    deliberate denial of the democratic processes: it was a necessary political expedient in order to
                    face Lincoln on his inauguration with an established and functioning government. No simple answer is
                    found to Lincoln's role in the Fort Sumter affair, but the conclusion is reached that
                    between the election of November, 1860, and the firing on Fort Sumter Lincoln showed "less
                    understanding of conditions in the South and gave less evidence of broad statesmanship than was ever
                    again to characterize him" (p. 35).
            The South neither wanted nor expected war; the few who desired conflict were not given positions in
                    the government. The South was cognizant of the disparity between its resources and those of the rest
                    of the Union, but were not its manpower, its area, its trade, and its potential greater than those
                    of many of the more important nations? There was, then, an early wave of optimism and a high morale
                    during the first days of the new nation. Morale is termed the "most potent weapon"
                    the South had, but it began to sag in 1862, rumors took a toll, and
                    propaganda—uncoordinated as it was —could not sustain it; the South
                    "lost this weapon, and, therefore, the war" (p. 83).
            
            The analysis of the government of the Confederate States is penetrating and critical. He points out
                    that Davis tried to attend to too many details of administration, that he was not the type of person
                    who could become a hero no matter how much he might be respected, that he had high ideals of office,
                    and that no detail was too small to bring an attack by such powerful opponents as Toombs, Brown,
                    Vance, Stephens, or by less important individuals or newspapers. Whatever weaknesses Davis
                    had—and they were numerous—when he is compared with the other men during the
                    course of the struggle, he "showed fewer … than any other" (p. 113).
                    Also, while the Confederate Congress was disappointing in not maintaining the standards of
                    statesmanship expected of it, much of the criticism was unreasoning and unwarranted. The military
                    drew away much of the glory from the civilian agencies, and the Congress showed much boldness of
                    imagination in handling unprecedented problems. One is struck by the vivid portrayal of the details
                    of bureaucracy and the realization that the printing of stamps could cause as many or more headaches
                    than the transformation of the Federal postal system into a Confederate one.
            In his analysis of the policies of the Confederate States, Coulter follows a conclusion of the late
                    Dr. Ramsdell that one of the most fundamental causes of the ultimate failure of the Confederacy was
                    its "unwise financial policy." He does feel, though, that Memminger's
                    plans for bonds, paper money, and taxes might have been made to work, but the Congress chose the
                    easy way out by paying the debts in paper currency and bonds with no early comprehensive tax
                    program. Coulter concludes, however, that it would have made no difference even if the money had
                    been based on gold or cotton for it would have become worthless with defeat and that it was lack of
                    faith or confidence in the ability of the government— among other factors—that
                    affected the value of the money. It is worth noting that the comprehensive tax bill of April, 1863,
                    contained many of the roots of the future tax structure of this country.
            The diplomatic affairs of the new nation are admirably summarized, care being taken to emphasize that
                    if the English and the French could be won over to recognition the attitude of the other nations
                    made no difference. In this section there is one point open to serious debate: was the English  recognition of belligerency of the Confederacy of more benefit
                    to the North than to the South because the North thereby gained the legal right to institute a
                    blockade? The chronological order of the blockade and the recognition of belligerency, plus the fact
                    that the 
                        United States
                     government did nearly everything that she had protested as wrong in the years preceding
                    the War of 1812, indicates that expediency quickly overcame any qualms concerning mere legality.
            The discussions of the problems of building an army and supplying that army are superior to those
                    found in many much more detailed works. Among the topics treated are manufactories; prices, profits,
                    and labor; agriculture, subsistence, and Negroes; raising troops; trade, blockade-running, and the
                    navy; and transportation and communication. The various problems encountered are pointed up; the
                    achievements and shortcomings are analyzed; and the dissensions created (summarized in a later
                    chapter) are noted. The reviewer wishes to raise a question in regard to two quotations from one of
                    these chapters: "Had secession taken place in 1850, when the railroads in both sections
                    were more nearly equal strategically, the South might well have established its
                    independence" (p. 269) and "Had the railroads been efficient enough and had Lee
                    possessed bold vision, part of his army in 
                        Virginia
                     could have been sent to the relief of Vicksburg and the 
                        Gettysburg
                     campaign would have been averted" (p. 281). This is pyramiding the nonexistent
                    and the improbable into the unprovable.
            The chapter on internal dissensions emphasizes the significance of state-rights dogma and
                    personalities and the absence of a single goal or objective on the part of the great body of the
                    southern population. What they were seeking was not only not clear to many of the civilians, but
                    "Just what the Confederate soldier was fighting for stood out little more clearly in his
                    mind than what most soldiers fight for in any war" (p. 449). In other chapters desertion,
                    straggling, poor discipline, war heroism, decadence, "bread riots," bickering,
                    gambling, drinking, prisoners and prison camps, aid associations, monotony, ennui,
                    disease, the specter of hunger and nakedness, and the Confederate Kilroy (‘Bolivar
                    Ward") all come in for well-proportioned attention.
            Of especial interest to many readers—because of the relative scarcity of monographic
                    studies—will be the chapters  on fine arts and the
                    press and on literary activities, education, and religion. In the latter chapter the author shows
                    how war seeped into, corroded, and captured the soul of the writing Southerners, making them turn
                    their literary efforts to the support of the war. It was unthinkable that anyone who did not support
                    "the cause" should be allowed to teach, but, try as they may, the Southerners were
                    never able to convert education or religion to fanatical—or even
                    powerful—morale purposes.
            The book is well balanced in the space devoted to the several topics, and the author seems to have
                    used just about everything that has ever been published on or about the Confederacy as well as a
                    number of manuscript collections. From the latter and from the newspapers he has drawn many of his
                    aptly-chosen quotations. His easy and flowing style, punctuated with his humor, adds to the
                    attractiveness of the volume. This sense of humor, however, does not seem to extend to Alexander
                    Stephens who might be criticized a bit too harshly. Again, the author appears a little too critical
                    of the refusal of Davis to accept peace and Union at Hampton Roads in 1865.
            There is something of a temporary unbalance in the treatment of the causes of the defeat of the
                    Confederacy; when factors—or forces—such as money or conscription are
                    discussed, each appears to have been the basic or underlying cause of the fall of the new
                    government. But almost at the end these factors are tied together with the statement that the
                    "forces leading to defeat were many but they may be summed up in this one fact: The people
                    did not will hard enough and long enough to win" (p. 566). This will was strong in the
                    beginning, but ruinous inflation, dissensions and fractionalism, conscription, and other forces
                    caused it to wither and die. Just as the reader is prepared to say that one cannot win wars, or even
                    battles, on will alone, Coulter says "But, of course, if enemy morale always exceeded what
                    the Confederates could have mustered, then defeat was always inevitable; but there are reasons to
                    believe that the Confederacy had within its being the potentialities of a stronger and more
                    persistent will to win independence than the Federals had to save the Union. It is easy to argue in
                    circles as to why the Confederacy did not win" (p. 567). He does not seem to deplore the
                    failure of the Confederacy to capitalize on its potentialities; 
                    nor does he pursue the circular argument.
            The index is good; the critical essay on authorities is just that; and the book is a credit to the 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press. Historians, and the public in general, should be grateful to
                    the editors, to the author, and to the sponsoring agencies for the best and the only really
                    comprehensive history of the South from 1861 to 1865.
            
               Indiana University Chase C. Mooney
         
         
            
               Nationalism and Sectionalism in 
                            South Carolina
                        , 1852-1860: A Study of the Movement for Southern Independence. By Harold S.
                    Schultz. (
                        Durham
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    : Duke University Press, 1950, pp. xiv, 259\ Index, bibliography, maps, illustrations.
                    $4.50.)
            In this compact and well-organized book, Professor Schultz has re-examined the slavery question in 
                        South Carolina
                     during the 1850's. His thesis, boiled down to its least common denominator, is
                    this: 
                        South Carolina
                     politicians and statesmen were afraid of the abolitionists as a political force in
                    national politics and preferred secession to domination by a federal government controlled by
                    antislavery men. And by 1860, South Carolinians were rather certain that the anti-slavery group was
                    going to control the North and that there was no longer any hope of maintaining friends or allies in
                    the northern section. In support of this theory the Carolina leaders cited the Brooks assault, the
                    nomination of Buchanan instead of Pierce, the slim margin of victory enjoyed by the Democrats in the
                    election of 1856, the growing strength of the Republican party in Congress, the unreliable
                    friendship of northern democratic leaders such as Douglas, Seward's "irrepressible
                    conflict" speech of 1858, and finally John Brown's raid at Harper's
                    Ferry. They also declared that Helper's The Impending Crisis of the South
                    was the beginning of a dangerous propaganda movement instigated by antislavery leaders in an attempt
                    to array southern nonslaveholders against slaveholders. Consequently, throughout the decade of the
                    fifties when there was a strong nationalistic feeling in the other Southern States, 
                        South Carolina
                    , in thought, in speech, and in political action, manifested a strong disunion opinion.
            The idea that secession was caused by the slavery issue  is of
                    course, not new. As a matter of fact, this theory was elaborately developed by James Ford Rhodes
                    decades ago and has been more or less undermined by recent historical scholarship; at least, the new
                    school of thought entertains the idea that slavery was only one of several factors that caused
                    secession. Professor Schultz, in his well-documented study, brings us around the circle again to a
                    serious consideration of the antislavery crusade as the major factor in creating the crisis that
                    exploded into civil war. With respect to 
                        South Carolina
                     in particular, this book will become an interesting and challenging companion volume to
                    Professor John G. Van Deusen's Economic Bases of Disunion in 
                            South Carolina
                        
               , a study that emphasizes 
                        South Carolina
                    's desire for economic independence as a major cause of secession.
            In addition to bringing us fresh variations on the old theme of slavery, Professor Schultz presents
                    short but vivid accounts of some of the 
                        South Carolina
                     leaders including the well-known fire-eater Rhett and the more judicious party man,
                    James L. Orr. Other highlights in the book include a dramatic description of the Brooks-Sumner
                    affair, a realistic and informative account of the role of 
                        South Carolina
                     emigrants to bleeding 
                        Kansas
                    , and the marshalling of evidence to show that 
                        South Carolina
                     was anything but popular among the Southern States after 1850. Some readers, too, may
                    be surprised to find that the versatile liberal sinner, Thomas Cooper of 
                        South Carolina
                     College, was a pioneer advocate of nullification although W. S. Jenkins in 1935 and
                    Clement Eaton more recently pointed out this fact.
            The bibliography lists manuscript sources, about thirty newspaper files, and published materials
                    including state documents, diaries, periodical essays, biographies, and monographs. The critical
                    bibliophile will note a few titles that perhaps should have been included. For example, Clement
                    Eaton's Freedom of Thought in the Old South is suggestive for background
                    purposes, and the studies of the Frank Owsley school of thought might have stimulated a greater
                    interest in what the common people of 
                        South Carolina
                     were thinking and doing about the problem of slavery. This, however, is a matter of
                    opinion.
            
               Monmouth College F. Garvin Davenport
         
         
         
            
               The Forty-eighters: Political Refugees of the German Revolution of 1848. Edited
                    by A. E. Zucker. (
                  New York: Columbia
                University Press, 1950, pp. xviii, 379. Index,
                    bibliographical notes, biographical dictionary, illustrations, frontispiece portrait of Carl Schurz.
                    $4.50.)
            The Forty-eighters were "the group of German idealists who fought to establish a liberal and
                    unified 
                        Germany
                     and then came to the 
                        United States
                     as refugees from the reaction" (p. vii). Throughout this volume the term
                    Forty-eighter refers to "one who came to the 
                        United States
                     from German-speaking territory as a result of his participation in the Revolution of
                    1848" (p. ix). Many who emigrated for economic reasons or political refugees of an earlier
                    date have been excluded.
            Eleven scholars pooled their knowledge and research to produce The Forty-eighters.
                    The "Preface" and "Biographical Dictionary of the
                    Forty-eighters," which contains 317 names, represent the contribution of A. E. Zucker.
                    Scholars will welcome the compilation of so many sketches of Forty-eighters in one book each of
                    which "deals with an uprooted life, with all the hardships and handicaps that such a career
                    entails" (p. 269).
            Arthur D. Graeff supplied the introduction, which is followed by information on the authors.
            The first chapter, "The European Background," by Carl J. Friedrich emphasizes
                    "the broad ideological and cultural elements" rather than specific events which
                    took place on the continent in 1848.
            In the next chapter, "The American Scene" by Oscar Handlin, the fact is stressed
                    that the newcomers were considered as an asset in the development of the 
                        United States
                    . Furthermore, in this country, there was a place reserved for refugees who had fled
                    from political oppression.
            Hildegard Binder Johnson in her chapter on the "Adjustment to the 
                        United States
                    " gives a good description of how a Forty-eighter may have looked as he landed
                    in one of the American ports. In most instances he was young, and a glance at his delicate hands
                    signified that he had not been subjected to physical labor. While some of this number were poets who
                    enjoyed the freedom of America, they also became victims of Heimweh which is
                    reflected in their lines. Nevertheless,  the westward movement
                    made an indelible impression upon the Forty-eighters many of whom settled in the Middle West. While
                    Milwaukee was the choice of a large number, those who located in 
                        Chicago
                     played a more important role in politics. For approximately one generation the
                    Forty-eighters controlled the German life of 
                        Davenport
                    , 
                        Iowa
                    . Other areas could be mentioned in which these German political refugees of 1848 became
                    prominent. No mention is made of Indiana, although quite a few Germans who were victims of the
                    disturbance in Europe in 1848 settled in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . They made their mark in the field of journalism and in the Turnverein.
            Throughout the 
                        United States
                     where there was a German settlement, as a rule a Turnverein also came
                    into existence. So one would expect to find a chapter on the Turner movement in
                        The Forty-eighters. Augustus J. Prahl was responsible for this section of the
                    book and in addition to a brief history of this organization has included a number of typical Turner poems.
            In view of the fact that the Forty-eighters were particularly interested in politics, a chapter on
                    this phase was written by Lawrence S. Thompson and Frank X. Braun. At the same time that the
                    Know-Nothing movement became prominent, many Forty-eighters assumed political and intellectual
                    leadership of the German masses. As a result some of the most radical groups of the day developed.
                    The term "radical," however, cannot be justly applied to the majority of the
                    Forty-eighters since they were a heterogeneous group.
            The only woman listed among the Forty-eighters, Mathilde Franziska Giesler Anneke, was a suffragist.
                    An unhappy marriage at the age of nineteen, a divorce the following year, and difficulties
                    encountered in her struggle to obtain the custody of her child made her an advocate of
                    women's rights. To promote her cause, she edited the Frauenzeitung in
                    Cologne until 1848 when it was suppressed. A year later she came to America and settled in
                    Milwaukee. Here again she pursued her journalistic talents for three years until she was forced to
                    leave that city, whereupon she took up residence in the East and continued in her chosen field.
                    Finally ill health forced her to withdraw from journalism, but she continued to campaign for
                    women's rights until her death in 1884.
            Because of the very liberal views of some of the Forty-eighters, 
                    they were referred to as radicals. A chapter, therefore, on this group by Eitel W. Dobert serves as
                    an important link in the chain of this book. "The radical Forty-eighters were not always
                    comfortable company" (p. 157). Many were tactless, impractical, and impatient. Dobert
                    claims that "radicals are born, not made. An unwillingness to follow the well-trodden path,
                    a very sensitive social conscience, the feeling of a personal responsibility for the world about, an
                    urge to reform—all these go into the making of a radical" (pp. 158-159). Some of
                    the more outstanding men who fall in the above-mentioned category furnish the bulk of the material
                    for this chapter.
            There is no question about the fact that the 
                        United States
                     during the days of the Civil War was greatly aided by the addition of the
                    Forty-eighters. A chapter on their contribution is ably treated by Ella Lonn. Of particular interest
                    to Hoosiers is the part August Willich, who commanded the Thirty-second Regiment Indiana Volunteers
                    (or first Indiana German regiment), took in this great strife. He was later succeeded by Heinrich
                    von Trebra. The Indiana regiment was commanded in the German language and each company was provided
                    with a book in which the orders of the colonel or superior officer were written in German.
            The Forty-eighters were also prominent in the field of special services as physicians and chaplains
                    during the Civil War. Among the latter were many freethinkers. Journalists were also associated with
                    the army, and one of the best known of the war reporters was Otto von Corwin.
            Miss Lonn concludes her chapter by stating that, "The value of the presence of the
                    Forty-eighters in the Union army was threefold: first, their help in winning the war; second, the
                    reaction on the Forty-eighters themselves; third, the advantage to the 
                        United States
                     in appreciable assimilation of a hitherto critical group" (p. 217).
            Probably no Forty-eighter was better known or more closely touched the lives of the rank and file
                    throughout the 
                        United States
                     than Carl Schurz. The last chapter of the book, therefore, has been devoted to a sketch
                    of this popular leader by Bayard Quincy Morgan. "Schurz was a true German-American, with a
                    double loyalty but not a divided one, a citizen whose foreign birth was not a detriment to his
                    Americanism but an asset to it" (p. 249).
            
            While this is a very good book, a definitive work on the Forty-eighters still remains to be written.
                    There are few typographical errors, but the spelling of one man's name varies. On pages 46,
                    65, 69, 144, 151, and 323, it appears as Theodor Olshausen, and on pages 63, 75, and 370 as Theodor
                    Ohlshausen.
            The Carl Schurz Foundation is to be congratulated for making possible the publication of this volume.
                    Scholars interested in German immigration will want to add it to their library.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Elfrieda Lang
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         Newspapers: A Living Record. By Robert C. Wheeler. (
                        Columbus
                    : The 
                        Ohio
                     History Press, 1950, pp. 257. Maps and illustrations. $6.50.)
            This book includes approximately 126 pages of facsimile reproductions of newspapers, principally 
                        Ohio
                     papers, selections from early colonial papers, and also western papers which preceded
                    the first papers in the Buckeye State. About twenty pages illustrate the evolution of the printing
                    press and the general historical commentary is told in around one hundred pages. There is the usual
                    preface, foreword and introduction, a page concerning the facsimiles, a comprehensive table of
                    contents, but no index. Five pages offer an explanatory note and then list "
                        Ohio
                    's Living Newspapers." Wheeler, who is head of the newspaper library
                    of the 
                        Ohio
                     State Archaeological and Historical Society, suggests that this volume was compiled
                    "in an attempt to bring historical source material relating to 
                        Ohio
                     before the high school student, the college student of journalism history, and all
                    those interested in the 
                        Ohio
                     story" (p. 9). The specialist in the history of 
                        Ohio
                     and the American Middle West will also find the volume interesting and helpful;
                    however, Wheeler makes it clear that it "is not intended to be a history of 
                        Ohio
                     Journalism nor of early newspapers in general; rather it represents a compilation or
                    collection of newspapers, reflecting some of the important periods and events in the history of the
                    state" (p. 19).
            The use of facsimile reproductions is the most useful feature of the volume. Fortunately the pages
                    are almost twelve by eighteen inches so that the newspaper columns can be  read without too much difficulty. Perhaps the historical commentary
                    could have been reduced by one-half and the space saved more profitably have been given to the
                    evolution of newspaper style, news-gathering agencies, news staffs, along with further consideration
                    of problems arising from finance, circulation, political connections, and advertising. Possibly
                    relatively more attention should have been given to social and cultural history. The agricultural
                    press is not represented and cultural trends and institutions are not adequately portrayed. The
                    compiler indicates some difficulties in regard to the list of "
                        Ohio
                    's Living Newspapers," where the founding dates are given for papers
                    which have survived to the present. Any who have attempted to compile such a list will probably
                    assume that the dates are merely approximate in many instances.
            The facsimiles concerning colonial and early western papers are exceedingly valuable as background
                    for the press of various western states, including Indiana. As one turns the pages of the newspapers
                    included in this volume, the atmosphere and contemporary slant concerning many episodes and trends
                    of national and Middle Western history becomes apparent. The reader is reminded that 
                        Kentucky
                     was an important springboard for the early beachheads of civilization in the old
                    Northwest; he relives the days of Indian warfare and captivity; he realizes the speed and great
                    quantity of news concerning foreign affairs available today in contrast to the briefer accounts of
                    news about Napoleon which at times appeared about two months after it happened; he is startled to
                    find Americans offering bounties for Indian scalps (p. 75); and he wonders what pioneer papers would
                    have done without ads regarding patent medicines. Then comes the Civil War and one realizes that the
                    tragedy of war is perhaps better revealed in the press than in any other single source. Later pages
                    tell of the coming of gas, steel, and oil; all these reflect the impact of an evolving manufacturing
                    system.
            This book and Osman Castle Hooper's History of 
                            Ohio
                         Journalism, 1793-1933, are excellent volumes regarding the history of Buckeye
                    newspapers. 
                        Ohio
                     has a much more creditable record for collecting and preserving its newspaper files
                    than Indiana where innumerable volumes of valuable newspaper files are carelessly stored in county
                    courthouses, newspaper offices, local libraries, and even private hands. The  Indiana State Library and the Indiana University libraries have the
                    best newspaper collections in the state, but some local collections such as the one held by the
                    Northern Indiana Historical Society, at 
                        South Bend
                    , are also of particular value for certain counties.
            In this sesquicentennial year Indiana could do well to make plans for more appropriate centralization
                    and preservation of her newspaper files. Four years hence the Hoosier press will observe its
                    sesquicentennial, having been founded at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1804 when Elihu Stout launched the Indiana Gazette. Newspaper
                    editors, historians, librarians, state officials, and historical societies should join hands to
                    collect, preserve and make available to historians, and others, Indiana's priceless
                    newspaper files. They should give help and encouragement to the writing of Indiana's
                    newspaper story.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               
                  Rainy River Country: A Brief History of the Region Bordering 
                            Minnesota
                         and 
                            Ontario
                        
               . By Grace Lee Nute. (
                        St. Paul
                    : The 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, 1950, pp. xiv, 143. Maps, illustrations, bibliography, and index.
                    $2.00.)
            This little book by Dr. Grace Nute is a companion volume to her Voyageur's
                        Highway published in 1941. The earlier book dealt with the frontier country between Lake
                    Superior and Rainy Lake; the present book deals with the same country west of Rainy
                    Lake as far as Lake of the Woods. Like its predecessor 
                  Rainy
                        River Country is local in its appeal; yet it is not without interest to
                    Canadians and Americans alike, for Dr. Nute's competence, scholarship, and wide knowledge
                    of the 
                        Minnesota
                    –
                        Ontario
                     region are well appreciated both in 
                        Canada
                     and in the 
                        United States
                    .
            The Rainy River country has been historically of more significance to Canadian
                    than to American development. This is natural enough. Rainy River and
                        Rainy Lake were all part of the great east-west water highway which
                    extended from the Gulf of St. Lawrence, through the Great Lakes,
                        Rainy River country, Lake Winnipeg and
                        Saskatchewan river systems to the Rocky Mountains, along which the Canadian
                    trade has moved since the days of Jacques de Noyon. When the fur trade yielded place to lumbering
                    and then to mining, the  first lumberjacks and first miners
                    began their extractive industries on the Canadian side of the boundary line. It is not without
                    significance that Fort Frances preceded International Falls by many generations. It was, in fact,
                    not until the opening years of the twentieth century that the era of 
                        United States
                     activity in this region began.
            Dr. Nute is well aware of this fact and she would appear to be happier when writing about
                    "the pines, caribou and Indians of McLoughlin's day" than when dealing
                    with "the grasslands, farms and industrialized cities of 1950 in the Rainy
                    River country." Nevertheless every chapter of her slender volume is most
                    readable. Her restraint when dealing with the story of the 
                        Minnesota
                     and 
                        Ontario
                     Paper Company which assumed financial responsibility for the publication of the book by
                    a generous gift to the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, is much to be commended.
            There is no point in criticizing this book as a contribution to historical knowledge. Dr. Nute has
                    not intended that it should be looked upon as a profound piece of work. Its value lies in the
                    effective use by the author of her extensive knowledge to illuminate, for the general reader, the
                    history of this small but important section of the border country of 
                        Canada
                     and the 
                        United States
                    . It is in no carping sense therefore that this reviewer suggests that one or two small
                    corrections should be made. Lord Selkirk did not purchase "a controlling interest"
                    in the stock of the Hudson's Bay Company in order to obtain the grant of land upon which he
                    settled his colonists. When the grant was made, he owned no more than 4,087. 10s worth of stock. It
                    was not until after the grant was made by the Company that Selkirk made huge purchases of stock
                    bringing his holdings up to 26,000. Again, Garnet Wolseley (later Field Marshal and Viscount) was a
                    colonel and not a lieutenant-colonel when he led the military expedition over the Dawson Route
                    against Fort Garry in 1870. One more criticism. The book is well illustrated and a good bibliography
                    is available, but this reviewer would like to see one or two maps in addition to the rather
                    unintelligible French map of 1740 and the too small map to be found on the inside of the covers.
                    Good maps help the reader to find his way through the pages of history.
            
                    Royal Military College of 
                            Canada
                        
               
                
            George F. G. Stanley
         
         
         
            
               The Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        
               . Compiled and edited by Clarence Edwin Carter. Volume XVII, The
                        Territory of 
                            Illinois
                        , 1814-1818, continued. (
                  Washington: United States
                Government
                    Printing Office, 1950, pp. v, 750. Index. $4.00.)
            This is the second, and final, volume of the Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        
                about 
                        Illinois
                    . The first was volume XVI for the years 1809-1814, published in 1948. The book here
                    reviewed is concerned with the last part of the second and all of the third administrations of
                    Governor Ninian Edwards, and it also contains the Executive Register kept by Secretary Nathaniel
                    Pope for the entire period of territorial existence. The papers constitute for the most part
                    correspondence between the governor and the heads of government departments in 
                        Washington
                    , and between the land agents at 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and Shawneetown and the Commissioner of the General Land Office and the
                    Surveyor-General, but there are documents from other sources, too. Taken together these letters,
                    reports, etc., give a picture of the many problems that had to be solved by the officers on the spot
                    and by the higher echelons in the national capital.
            Most of the documents deal with land problems: the claims of pre-emptioners and those with bounty
                    rights, the setting aside from general sale of school lands and saline and mineral reservations, the
                    burden of clerical work borne by the land agents, and the difficulties arising from the often hasty
                    and inaccurate surveys. All of these problems were made more difficult to solve by the rush of
                    settlers into 
                        Illinois
                     when the War of 1812 ended.
            One of the most important duties of the territorial governor was to act as Indian superintendent. As
                    always the red men were troublesome, and their custom of disregarding the territorial boundaries in
                    their migrations brought Governor Edwards into jurisdictional dispute with Governor Clark in 
                        Missouri
                     Territory and Governor Cass in 
                        Michigan
                    . Although the war was over, still British officers and fur traders intrigued with the
                    tribes to weaken the hold of American Indian agents. Occasionally there were Indian raids on
                    isolated settlers, with consequent demands that the miscreants be hunted down and punished. And as
                    always there was the pressure of an ever-increasing population for the extinguishment of the Indian
                    title to more and more land.
            
            An interesting document is the facsimile reproduction of one of the early imprints of 
                        Illinois
                     Territory. This is a forty-two–page pamphlet printed at 
                        Kaskaskia
                     in 1814 containing a memorial from the territorial legislature, asking that Congress
                    approve a territorial law to improve the judicial system (the law is also printed in the pamphlet)
                    because the judges appointed by the President and the Senate would not execute the territorial law,
                    which was designed to provide for more frequent and more convenient court sessions.
            Most of the originals of the documents here published are from government department files now
                    deposited in the National Archives, and they may be consulted there, but the accurate and careful
                    printing of them in this volume makes them available to a much larger audience of people interested
                    in the history of the Middle West. The excellently organized and meticulously detailed index
                    provides an open door to the information. Genealogists will be especially pleased with many names of
                    early settlers and the care with which they are identified.
            
               Mac Murray College Walter B. Hendrickson
         
         
            
               American Heritage, New Series, II, No. 1, Autumn 1950. Many persons in Indiana will
                    be interested in this periodical which represents an attempt by the Association for State and Local
                    History to make history more popular without sacrificing scholarship. This issue, the first number
                    of the second volume of the new series, is chiefly devoted to Indiana and will be particularly
                    interesting to Hoosiers.
            The articles in this number include the following: Donald F. Carmony, "Cars from an
                    Anvil," which sketches the rise of the Studebaker Company; Elmer Davis, "We Lived
                    in Indiana Too," which calls attention to the Ohio River area; Joan
                    Schaub, "Re-birth of an Indiana Town," tells the story of Arcole or Spring Mill as
                    it was later called; Richard E. Banta, "Owen's New Moral World," a
                    discussion of 
                        New Harmony
                     after Owen; Gayle Thornbrough, "
                        Tippecanoe
                    ;" Jeannette C. Nolan, "
                        Indianapolis
                    ;" Howard H. Peckham, "What made Hoosiers Write," a
                    stimulating and interpretative essay; and R. Carlyle Buley, "Lilly: Heritage in
                    Health," which summarizes a privately printed history of the Lilly Company. Phases of the
                    history of the Mississippi River are presented in three  other articles: Bertha L. Heilbron, "Father of
                    Waters;" Charles van Ravenswaay, "Life and Character of the 
                        Mississippi
                    ;" and Perry T. Rathbone, "
                        Mississippi
                     Panorama." Four full page reproductions in color accompany a brief article on
                    "The Indian Paintings of George Winter."
            The entire issue is characterized by its excellent illustrations, several of which are in color. The
                    articles in general are timely and the authors well qualified. A number of the articles are brief
                    statements of previously published works. Generally a nice balance is maintained between the desire
                    to popularize and to be scholarly and shallowness is thereby avoided. Although no attempt is made to
                    describe Indiana as a whole, a more adequate picture of the state may be gained than in some of the
                    other magazines which have devoted special issues to the Hoosier State.
         
         
            
               Fort Jefferson: The Frontier Post of the Upper Miami
                    Valley
               . By Frazer Ells Wilson. (
                  Lancaster, Pennsylvania
               : The
                    Intelligencer Printing Company, 1950, pp. 36. Illustrations.)
            The stories in this small booklet were written to "stimulate the study of local history
                    … and to encourage the early introduction of the study of this fascinating subject in our
                    public schools." There are, however, more critical minds among the youth in the public
                    schools today than most writers are aware of. Therefore, it might have been to the credit of the
                    author if he had documented his narrative.
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            The Oak Ridge Church and Cemetery
            
                    Nova May Mertens*
               
                
            Around 1875, the inhabitants of Jackson Township, 
                        Brown County
                    , Indiana, living about two miles north of Helms-burg felt the need for a house of
                    worship. Consequently plans were made to build, and the two sons of Jacob Frownfelter assumed the
                    leadership for the construction of the first log church. The next problem which confronted the group
                    was an appropriate name. Several meetings were held for this purpose but without success. Finally
                    when another meeting took place Jacob Frownfelter was determined to settle the question and at the
                    proper moment rose to his feet and remarked, "This is an oak ridge from one end to the
                    other [referring to the timber] so why not call it Oak Ridge Church?"
            By 1900, the size of the congregation necessitated larger quarters. Therefore, a few rods south of
                    the log church on land donated by William Snider a new white frame building was constructed which is
                    still used as a community church.
            Approximately one hundred graves may be found in the cemetery adjoining the church on the south. At
                    first there were few burials due to the poor condition of the roads, but as the highways were
                    improved more families placed their loved ones to rest in this cemetery, which includes a few Civil
                    and World War veterans. Among the oldest graves are members of the Snider family who originally had
                    been laid to rest in the Myers Cemetery, and one grave for a member of the Frownfelter family moved
                    from the Kuhn or Fleener Cemetery.
            
               William Snider, b. Sept. 18, 1843; Co. D. 25th Reg. Ind. Vol.
                Emaline, wife of William Snider, b. Nov. 9, 1843; d. Feb. 8, 1907.
               James Edgar, son of William and Emaline Snider, d. March 31, 1872, at age of 3 mo.
               Rosebelle, dau. of William and I. E. Snider, d. March 20, 1874, age 11 mo., 20 da.
               Infant Snider, d. March 16, 1916.
               Douglas Wade, b. 1860; d. 1941.
               Mary Jane Wade, b. 1861, d. 1940. 
                     
                        * Mrs. Nova May Mertens is a resident of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana.
                  
               
               
               Myrtle, wife of R. C. Snider, b. Feb. 17, 1881; d. Feb. 11, 1907.
               Sadie Wade, b. 1869; d. March 17, 1950, age 81 yrs., 2 mo., 12 da.
               Joseph M. Wade, b. 1832; d. 1906.
               Phoebe A. Wade, b. 1833; d. 1923.
               D. W. Miller, son of David and Sarah Miller, b. 1838; d. 1920; 55th Keg. Ind. Vol.
               James Smith, b. July 1, 1830.
               Joseph Tutterow, b. Oct. 15, 1848; d. Sept. 9, 1915.
               Sarah A. Tutterow, b. Aug. 26, 1860; d. June 21, 1925.
               Lucy Hughes, b. Oct. 23, 1845.
               Walter Hughes, b. 1881; d. 1924.
               Sarah Kephart, b. 1850; d. 1936.
               Harold Lee Rund, b. Apr. 29, 1911; d. Jan. 4, 1913.
               Lorna Dell Kaserman, b. Jan. 15; d. Jan. 17, 1920.
               James David Kaserman, b. Oct. 29, 1876; d. Oct. 19, 1950
               Nora Luvena Kaserman, b. Sept. 18, 1883; d. Jan. 24, 1920.
               James Gahn, b. July 16, 1857; d. July 2, 1920.
               Laura Gahn, d. Dec. 11, 1867; d. May 9, 1945.
               Margaret Snyder, b. 1858; d. 1908.
               Lewis Prosser, b. 1866; d. 1941.
               Ida Bell Prosser, b. 1878; d. 1949.
               Katherine Murphy, b. 1839; d. 1925.
               Jean E. Brown, b. 1930; d. 1932.
               Mary A. Brown, b. 1928; d. 1932.
               Ishmael L. Brown, b. 1913; d. 1938.
               Thomas J. Kelso, b. Aug. 22, 1833; d. July 10, 1910; Co. K., Ind. Vol.
               John Steele, b. 1836; d. 1915.
               Rebecca Steele, b. 1853; d. June 12, 1935; 82 yrs., 2 mo., 6 da.
               Perry Baker, b. 1855, d. 1933.
               Mary Baker, b. 1853; d. 1931.
               James Derringer, b. 1865; d. 1936.
               Cordelia Derringer, b. 1870, d. 1920.
               Archie Leroy Derringer, b. Oct. 14, 1899; d. Apr. 14, 1949.
               Infant Sisson, Twin, d. Aug. 30, 1948.
               Walter Ray Schrock, d. July 2, 1948; age 19 yrs., 2 mo., 25 da.
               Albert Wampler, b. Oct. 31, 1891; d. May 20, 1947.
               Freda May Neal, b. Sept. 3, 1923; d. June 18, 1925.
               Alice Neal, b. 1880; d. 1947.
               Mary S. Pitzer, b. 1867; d. 1945.
               Henry D. Neidigh, b. 1862; d. 1945.
               Florence J. Neidigh, b. 1869; d. 1934.
               Sarah F. Kelso, wife of Thomas Kelso, b. May 3, 1835; d. July 10, 1910.
               Lewis Kelso, b. 1880; d. 1934.
               Carl Edgar, son of Lewis and Ida M. Kelso, b. Sept. 23, 1907; d. Jan. 15, 1915.
               Daniel W. David, b. Feb. 25, 1858; d. Aug. 24, 1937.
               Infant Shillingford, d. March 31, 1914.
               Chelsie L. Shillingford, b. Feb. 23, 1883; d. April 17, 1939.
               Susie Ellen Bush, b. 1893; d. 1923.
               Wm. J. Long, b. 1843; d. 1925.
               
               Mary A. Long, b. 1843; d. 1917.
               Elijah Long, b. April 9, 1844; d. May 30, 1927; Enlisted June 10, 1862, Co. G., 55 Reg. Ind.
                        Vol.
               Robert E. Long, b. Aug. 7, 1880; d. Oct. 1933.
               Ray Derringer, b 1896, d. 1928.
               Ruth Derringer, b. 1893; d. 1929.
               Charles M. Gill, b. 1871; d. 1949.
               William G. Smith, b. 1860; d. 1929.
               Clara G. Smith, b. 1859; d. 1929.
               Martha J. Stephens, b. 1858; d. 1944.
               Homer C. Stephens, b. 1860; d. 1927.
               James Bailey, b. Aug. 8, 1860; d. 1948.
               Mary J. Bailey, b. Sept. 27, 1864; d. May 12, 1941.
               Martin L. Morrison, b. Aug. 31, 1854; d. Jan. 27, 1930.
               Sarah C Morrison, b. Nov. 13, 1855; d. May 13, 1929.
               Leah Katherine Morrison, b. Feb. 27, 1908; d. Nov. 30, 1940.
               Harry B. Cope, b. 1875; d. 1924.
               Harold Cope, b. 1900; d. 1923.
               Charles William Stephens, d. Oct. 4, 1938; Indiana Fireman ICL, U.S. Navy.
               Merrette I. Hessennauer Long, b. July 5, 1903; d. Aug. 9, 1941; Wife of Glenn Long.
               Willard Long, b. 1861; d. 1941.
               Marcena Long, b. 1865; d. 1938.
               Jas. W. Steele, b. Jan. 8, 1941; d. Nov. 17, 1925; Co. I. 63 Ind. Inf.
               Edgar D. Steele, d. Oct. 14, 1933; age 53 yrs., 6 mo., 8 da.; Ind. Pvt. 3 Arty.
               Ruth Beaver, b. 1858; d. 1945.
               Albert Long, b. 1858; d. 1932.
               Esther L. Bond, b. 1924; d. 1932.
               Lucille R. Raridon, b. 1900; d. 1946.
               William Otto Tutterow, b. March 25, 1897; d. Dec. 24, 1944.
               Marvin E. Tutterow, b. Aug. 5, 1925; d. Dec. 23, 1944; Died of wounds received in 
                            Belgium
                        , and was buried in N. France.
               Infant son of Mr. and Mrs. W. O. Tutterow, d. Feb. 15, 1936.
               Ralph Ramsey, b. 1905; d. 1947.
               Owen Richardson, b. 1850; d. 1919.
               Elmer Richardson, b. 1882; d. 1934.
               David Frownfelter, b. April 29, 1846; d. May 6, 1933.
               Lucinda Frownfelter, b. Jan. 15, 1849; d. March 28, 1933.
               Frances Harding, d. Aug. 18, 1937.
               Lewis J. Snider, b. 1872; d. 1948.
               
                  
                            Warren
                         Snider, b. 1900; d. 1942.
               Charles F. Leonard, d. Sept. 2, 1949; age 91 yrs., 7 mo., 14 da.
               Josie Baughman, b. 1882; d. 1947.
               Elizabeth A. Brown, d. May 28, 1948; 1 yr., 1 mo., 28 da.
               George Christian Merriman, b. Sept. 14, 1875; d. Dec. 12, 1947.
               Infant of James and Gladys Fritch, Violet Marie Fritch, b. Sept. 7, 1924; d. Dec. 4, 1926.
               
               James Lloyd Merriman, son of George and Rebecca Merriman, b. Feb. 4, 1908; died at age of 16
                        months.
               Mary Smith, d. July 194—.
               Jacob W. Frownfelter, b. 1848; d. 1920.
               Annie M. Frownfelter, b. 1867; d. 1936.
               Samuel Frownfelter, b. 1850; d. 1933.
               Clarence C. Beeler, b. 1861; d. 1920.
               Mary H. Beeler, b. 1882; d. 1927.
               Joseph Hughes, b. Aug. 3, 1844; d. Aug. 14, 1914; Co. I, 63 Reg. Ind. Vol.
               Sarah Ann (Clark) Turner, b. March 11, 1840; d. March 2, 1910.
               John Turner, b. Oct. 31, 1867; d. Nov. 1930.
               James Lewis Turner, b. Feb. 5, 1864; d. June 20, 1947.
               Laura Ellen Turner, b. July 14, 1865; d. April 9, 1939.
               Infant son of Frederick and Nova Mertens, b. Feb. 23, 1927; died at birth.
               Rufus (Jack Turner, b. Feb. 23, 1889; d. Nov. 5, 1932; [Date of birth on stone is 1890, but is
                        incorrect.]
            
         
         
         
            Hill Men of Indiana
            
               Benjamin F. Hill, b. N.C. 1832, m. 1 Laura Stanley; m. 2 Ellen Hadley; m. 3 Mrs. W. B. Morris.
               Benj. F. Hill, Pvt. Co. C. 69th Regt. Ind. Inf. d. 
                     New
                                Orleans, La.
                  , 1864.
               Benj. F. Hill, Pvt. Co. G. 53rd Regt. Ind. Inf. Mustered in and out 1865.
               Benj. F. Hill, son of Burrell, m. 1 Harriet L. Hill; m. 2 Katie Davis; m. 3 Maggie E. Courin.
               Benj. F. Hill, m. Caroline Louthen or Luthan 1909 in Adams Co.
               Benj. Franklin Hill, m. 2 Elizabeth Steinberger, son of Benjamin, 1807.
               Benj. J. Hill, b. Ind. 1823 m. Levina D. Hill 1845.
               Benoni Hill b. N. C. 1788, m. Mary or Polly Boswell 1814.
               Benonia Hill, Pvt. Co. H. 84th Regt. Ind. Inf. 1862-1865.
               Benoni Hill, b. 1844, m. Mogena Pickett 1866.
               Berta Elvis Hill, b. Ky. 1885, d. 
                            Princeton
                        , Ind., 1926.
               Berton A. Hill, b. 1870, d. 1936, bur. Crown Hill, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               Maj. Boswell H. Hill, b. 1842, d. 1925, 
                            Brazil
                        , Indiana, m. May Eaglesfield 1865.
               Briml Hill, b. 1889, d. 1943, 
                            Fairland
                        , Indiana.
               Brinton Hill m. Indiana Snepp, 
                            Bartholomew
                         Co. Ind., 1898.
            
            Anyone having any information on the above, please write to
            Edwin P. Hill 5421 Broadway Indianapolis 20, Indiana
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
