
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 38, Issue 2, pages 107-222. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:38+issue:2+year:1942&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Hoosier As An American Folk-Type
            RICHARD LYLE POWER
            
            The richness of American imagination was documented by a young diarist who described the composition
                    of 
                        Michigan
                    's early population by enumerating as many as eight popularly conceived types
                    of frontiersmen. They included Yankee, Hoosier, Yorker, Yahoo, Buckskin, Buckeye, Chegoe, and
                        Sucker.1 Long familiar in the American tradition and long taken for granted,
                    such stereotypes are encountered wherever one turns.2 The mere enumeration of
                    these popular terms does not imply their qualitative parity, since they varied widely in their
                    vividness and in popular acceptance. The Hoosier symbol, which was used to indicate the distinctive
                    culture imputed to Indiana, not only stood out from other western folk symbols, but was the nearest
                    rival to the Yankee folk creation in vitality and in general acceptance.
            The degree to which a stereotype justly reflects the characteristics of a people or a region raises
                    fascinating but treacherous questions. Perhaps a historian should avoid a topic in which hearsay,
                    fancy, small talk, and even slander are the principal raw materials. The Hoosier stereotype might be
                    dismissed as a piece of subjectivism were it not for striking parallels to objective fact. Not only
                    did Indiana receive a smaller proportion of the foreign-born than other states of the Old Northwest;
                    but migration from the great northeastern Yankee region through the plausible 
                        Toledo
                    -Maumee-Fort 
                        Wayne
                     gateway was much smaller than one 
                  
                     1 Louise Fogle (ed.), "The Journal of Ebenezer Mattoon
                            Chamberlain," Indiana Magazine of History, XV (1919), 254.
                  
                     2 The social importance of such fixed mental patterns or images, which
                            may or may not be in accord with the facts they are supposed to represent, was pointed out
                            some years ago by Walter Lippmann in his Public Opinion (
                                New York
                            , 1922), 79–129.
               
                     would expect from examination of the map.3
                    Thus, ascription to Hoosiers of a compound of traits derived from the southern uplands appears
                    relevant to early Indiana's predominantly southern population. The popular notion that
                    Indianans were a fever- and ague-ridden race was matched in objective fact by an ill-drained and
                    swampy terrain. Flippant treatment of Hoosiers in the secular press is probably related to the
                    frustration acknowledged by eastern religious workers who tried to make Puritans out of Hoosiers, as
                    well as to the lack of enthusiasm of eastern migrants for Indiana destinations. The relative
                    isolation of Indiana, the slowness of Yankee cultural penetration, and a deficiency of accurate
                    knowledge in eastern minds concerning Indiana must have had their bearing.4
            
            Concerning the oral transmission of the stuff of folklore and popular
                    clichés—rumor, idle talk, anecdote—one can say little except to
                    recognize its eminent importance and deplore its loss, a loss which emphasizes present dependence
                    upon manuscript and printed evidence. Recorded evidence of the Hoosier stereotype falls into general
                    classes: journalistic quips, and, particularly conspicuous, a crude sort of newspaper feature which
                    for convenience and because of its special character may be called the "Hoosier
                    story."
            A fertile source of Hoosier stories is the humorous monthly periodical Yankee Notions,
                        or Whittlings from Jonathan's 
                     
                        3 See Joseph E. Layton, "Sources of Population in
                                Indiana, 1816–1850," Bulletin of Indiana, State
                                Library (12 vols. 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1905–1917), XI (1916), No. 3, pp. 3–26, and the maps
                                in Lois K. Mathews, The Expansion of New 
                                        England
                                    
                         (
                                    Boston
                                , 1909).
                     
                                
                           4 The generalizations in this paragraph are based upon materials
                                    cited later in this paper or in Richard L. Power, "Wet Lands and the
                                    Hoosier Stereotype," 
                              
                                            Mississippi
                                         Valley Historical Review (Cedar Rapids, 
                                        Iowa
                                    , 1914-), XXII (1935–1936), 33–48, and idem, "A Crusade to Extend Yankee Culture,
                                    1820–1865," New 
                                            England
                                         Quarterly (Orono, 
                                        Maine
                                    , 1928-), XIII (1940), 638–53. For examples of the estimates
                                    of eastern missionaries concerning the "moral geography" of
                                    Indiana see the Home Missionary (82 vols., 
                                        New York
                                    , 1829–1909), XVII, May, 1844, pp. 19–21, and
                                    December, 1844, p. 187; and XXII, October, 1849, p. 151.
                                Whether a wet terrain is especially productive of folk-types is a query suggested by
                                    a seventeenth-century reference to the English fens: "A
                                    picture…is given in Camden's Britannia which
                                    describes the inhabitants of the peat fens of Cambridgeshire as 'a kind of
                                    people according to the nature of the place where they dwell rude, uncivill, and
                                    envious to all others whom they call Upland-men; who stalking on
                                    high upon stilts, apply their mindes, to grasing, fishing and fowling.'
                                    " This was found in Henry C. Darby (ed.), An Historical
                                        Geography of 
                                            England
                                         before A. D. 1800 (
                                        Cambridge
                                    . 
                                        England
                                    , 1936), 446.
                            
                  
                         Jack-Knife, which ran through fifteen volumes from
                    1852 to 1866, and which seemingly considered itself a 
                        New York
                     version of Punch; indeed, in the first volume appeared a cartoon
                    representing exchange of copies of the two periodicals across the Atlantic.5While other states than Indiana provided the putative settings for rustic anecdotes—
                        Arkansas
                    , 
                        Missouri
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , each supplying two or three instances per volume—Indiana was distinguished
                    not only by more frequent mention but by more extravagant literary treatment.6
            
            While the full-length Hoosier story, which even a tolerant critic would pronounce a generally low
                    literary form, might fill most of a column of a newspaper, there was no standard length. To what
                    extent these stories or references, over fifty of which appeared in Yankee Notions
                    in something over a decade, were original with that periodical would be difficult to determine. Some
                    of them are clearly borrowed, since a reader recognizes them in prior sources. That certain stories,
                    copied and recopied in widely remote parts of the country, remained current for years is also
                    quickly evident. How brisk was the traffic driven by journalists in floating stories of this general
                    type was remarked a century and a quarter ago by Hezekiah Niles who said that a single mail brought
                    five or six copyings of a story on the tantalizing theme "How Lorenzo raised the
                        devil."7
            
            Sometimes direct, sometimes vague and oblique, often coarse, insipid and pointless, Hoosier stories
                    appear to be a journalistic innovation intended to ridicule a type of culture which was antithetical
                    to that of the Yankees. It was probably not accidental that a periodical founded to epitomize the
                    Yankee genius of humor so promptly seized the Hoosier type as a way of lampooning a contrasting way
                    of life. And it is perhaps not accidental that the Yankees chose the neutral ground of the Old
                    Northwest as the place of deriding a way of life derived directly from the South. Literary history
                    thus augments the broader records of cultural adjustment in emphasizing the Yankee and the Hoosier
                    as outstanding native folk-types of nineteenth-century America.
            
               
                  5
                        Yankee Notions, or Whittlings from Jonathan's Jack-Knife (
                            New York
                        , 1852–1866), I, 130.
               
                  6 There were four references to "Hoosier" in the initial
                        number. Ibid., 11, 17, 22, 25.
               
                  7
                        Niles' Weekly Register (
                            Baltimore
                        , 1811–1849), XII (1817), 403.
            
            
            As the portrayer of a comic strip must constantly invent situations to preserve the momentum of his
                    creation, so did the anonymous purveyors of the Hoosier myth fancy their principal in a series of
                    exploitable situations. Thus one finds, in addition to stories in which details of person or of
                    environment are stressed, numerous stories of situation: the Hoosier eating; the Hoosier amid
                    sophisticated surroundings and grandeur; his first experience with steamers, street cars, or trains;
                    and the Hoosier at the circus, at fisticuffs, or on the stage. Also too good to be overlooked was
                    the bringing together of stock characters: the Hoosier with the Yankee, the Irishman, the Frenchman,
                    the Jewish peddler, or the dandy. He was pictured as making a ridiculous public wager with Dan
                    Marble, the circus man, or as impudently heckling Jenny Lind during one of her performances.8
            
            While crude consistency is maintained with respect to the language, physique and dress of the
                    Hoosiers, as well as the physical environment imputed to Indiana, the Hoosier Quixote is sometimes
                    appropriated to weirdly impertinent uses: a Baptist minister is made to deliver a discourse on 
                        New York
                     politics in Hoosier dialect; a supposed Hoosier "brag," who in fact
                    lends only his merest label, is coerced through a series of dull cartoons in six numbers of Yankee Notions in which the adventures of the braggart take him as far as the
                    North Pole.9 Like Davy Crockett who, "as the legend expands,"
                    turns up in 
                        Haiti
                    , 
                        Japan
                    , 
                        Brazil
                    , and the South Seas, like the Yankee of stage and legend who finds adventure in 
                        France
                    , 
                        England
                    , 
                        Poland
                    , Algiers, 
                        Spain
                    , and 
                        China
                    , the Hoosier was used as a utility man by the mid-century romancers, although his
                    imaginary travels were apparently much less extensive than those of the other figures.10
            
            Why the Hoosier as a type, who otherwise approached or equalled the Yankee as a folk figure, never
                    gained prominence on the American stage presents an interesting query. A search of the indexes of
                    eleven volumes of George C. D. 
                  
                     8
                            Yankee Notions, I, 317, 361; II (1853), 29, 334; III (1854), 217; VII
                            (1858), 156, 195; IX (1860), 285; X (1861), 9; XI (1862), 8. 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Farmer (
                                Cleveland
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , 1848-), VIII (1859), 407. Porter's Spirit of the
                            Times (
                                New York
                            , 1856–1860), I, 178. Granite Farmer (
                                Manchester
                            , 
                                New Hampshire
                            , 1850–1852), III, January 7, 1852.
                  
                     9
                            Yankee Notions, VI (1857), 253; II, January to June, passim.
                  
                     10 Richard M. Dorson, "The Yankee on the Stage—A
                            Folk Hero of American Drama," New 
                                    England
                                 Quarterly, XIII, 467, 481, and n. 50.
               
                     Odell's Annals of the 
                            New York
                         Stage discloses only the inclusion of Barnum's "Hoosier
                    Giant," a museum piece rather than dramatis persona.11 Perhaps public curiosity concerning the frontier type was fulfilled by devices such as the
                    Crockett stories and almanacs, and even by Crockett as a stage figure, since the Crockett theme and
                    personality, by the same evidence, enjoyed a considerable vogue on the stage.
            Among the few stories which attained a truly entertaining level is the one which concerned a Hoosier,
                    "an ugly man," wrongly believed by a group in a grocery store in
                    "Chickenville," 
                        Missouri
                    , to be suffering from the shock of a recent steamboat explosion.
                    "It's one of the unfortunate sufferers of the bustin of the 
                        Franklin
                    ," said a compassionate Missourian as he invited the luckless man to steady his
                    nerves with a drink. As the nerve-shaken one raised the tumbler to his lips there was hilarious
                    laughter at the grotesque homeliness of his features. "He's hardly got over
                    bein' blowed up yet," implored the host reprovingly. "Less make up a puss
                    for him." After a purse of sixty-five dollars had been raised it became known that the
                    homely man from Indiana had actually been at a distance of several hundreds of miles from the
                    exploding boiler.12
            
            Also relieved by the touch of a gifted raconteur was the story called "The Ager
                    Candidate," which stemmed from the political career of the Honorable Joseph A. Wright,
                    Governor of Indiana at mid-century. Re-elected, the Governor held open house. Among the callers was
                    an oldish farm wife from 
                        Morgan County
                    , which county was described in the story as being a noted fever and ague district.
                    Singularly happy in her compliments to the Governor, the farm woman assured him: "They
                    needn't run any man agin you, Governor, down in our region of the country; we believe in
                    you—we do!" The Governor was grateful but surprised, and assured the admiring
                    guest that he hoped to be faithful to party and to public trust. But the rustic woman was not
                    through. She did not care about party and public matters: "You go ahead and make your
                    Indian vegetable ager pills, and we'll gin you a majority down our way, party or no
                    party." Thus it leaked out, the story concludes, that the people of Morgan 
                  
                     11
                            Annals of the 
                                    New York
                                 Stage (
                                New York
                            , 1927-), I to X, and XII. The "Hoosier Giant" appeared in V
                            (1931), 578.
                  
                     12 Yankee Notions, VI, 272.
               
                     believed the Governor to be the manufacturer of
                    "Wright's Vegetable Pills" which the Morgan folk found a sovereign
                    specific for their great plague, fever and ague! But the Governor did not think it worth while to
                    enlighten 
                        Morgan County
                    .13
            
            Withal, the literary traffickers in the Hoosier folk-type did not drive too hard a bargain with the
                    figure they purveyed. No weakling, his roistering courage in physical encounter belied his
                    supposedly debilitating environment. The Hoosier's sense of humor salted many a story.
                    Although the Hoosier might be "green to the highest degree of verdancy, ignorant and
                    awkward, and attired in the acme of flashy bad taste,"14 he was likely
                    to prove "quite as sharp as city folks."15 After making fun of
                    the Hoosier's appearance, with his "little head perched on a crane's
                    neck," and exposing him to embarrassment and humiliation, the narrator often permitted his
                    rustic principal to come off victorious by means of a crashing verbal broadside. Thus the Hoosier,
                    baffled by the intricate menu of a first-class hostelry, at length exclaims: "Bring on your
                    soup, and then I'll pitch into biled vittles. Yeou tax all the same, they
                    say, and it's hard choos-in'—so I'll just try one plate
                    through the lot; I will, ef I bust."
               16 Even in such
                    heavy-handed stories as the one in which the Hoosier, too terrified or stupid to leap to the clear,
                    is chased a long distance by a steam locomotive and finally plunges to the implausible safety of a
                    swill-barrel, the victim is allowed to proclaim triumphantly: "Now here I am, a real
                    double-revolving snoly-gloster, ready to attack anything but a combination of thunder and lightning,
                    smoke, railroad iron and hot water."17
            
            Notwithstanding the slatternly, swamp-bred women prescribed by legend as the mates of the ungainly
                    males, it seems possible that the writings of these local-colorists dealt more charitably with its
                    people than with Indiana as a place. Along with the extreme rurality and illiteracy imputed to
                    Indiana the unwary reader of mid-century was encouraged to believe that barter economy, wildcat
                    finances and bank 
                  
                     13
                     Ibid., VIII (1859), 347.
                  
                     14
                     Ibid., VII, 195.
                  
                     15
                     Ibid., IX, 285. 
                  
                     16
                     Ibid., VI, 365.
                  
                     17
                     Granite Farmer, III, December 29, 1852. This story
                            also appeared in Yankee Notions, II, 29.
               
                     notes, disorderly and ignorant legislators, unenlightened
                    public policy, and easy divorce chronically emphasized the state's lapses from social
                    orthodoxy. Of the year's residence in the state required to obtain divorce, Yankee Notions relayed the advice that the cure was worse than the disease.18
            
            That only real humorists should have essayed the delicate medium of local color is certain from
                    clumsy attempts such as the one which gave the address of the imaginary Zekle Peppermint as
                    "Turkey Buzzard Holler, Skunk Township, Polecat County, Indiana."19 And that serious writers sometimes bore down more heavily than the irresponsible is shown
                    by an editorial of the 
                        Springfield
                    , 
                        Massachusetts
                    , Republican when that great newspaper declared concerning wartime
                    appointments to the Department of the Interior: 
                        Nobody seems to go into it head or tail that does not hail from that state—the
                            meanest, after all, in the West, and one of the meanest in the whole free Union. Why should
                            it have more fevers and ague and ignorance and bad politics than any of its sisters? Perhaps
                            because it was settled, in a greater degree, by poor small whites and small slaveholders of
                            the South.20
                  
                    Although instances of such verbal directness are mercifully infrequent, similar outbursts
                    were doubtless related to those broader social differences which must have had much responsibility
                    for causing the Civil War itself.
            Glancing somewhat afield—it is impossible to escape the similarity of social conditions
                    which obtained during much of the nineteenth century in the southern third of Indiana and in the
                    part of southern 
                        Illinois
                     popularly called "
                        Egypt
                    ." Conspicuous in either region was the relatively low per capita value of
                    agricultural wealth and the high concentration of southern-bred population.21
                    What is perhaps of special significance in the case of Indiana was the large contingent 
                  
                     18
                            Yankee Notions, VI, 84–85; VII, 156; VIII, 228; Granite Farmer, III, February 12, 1852.
                  
                     19
                            Yankee Notions, VI, 26.
                  
                     20
                            
                                Springfield
                            , 
                                Massachusetts
                            , Republican, January 31, 1863, as quoted in the 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, February 11, 1863.
                  
                     21 Maps prepared from data derived from the Seventh
                                Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1850, show that extreme southern 
                                Illinois
                             had a block of thirty-four contiguous counties with a per capita value of farms
                            less than —100; southern Indiana had twenty-one such counties, less nearly
                            contiguous; each state had a few such counties in its northern half. 
                                Ohio
                            , more uniformly wealthy than either, had only nine such counties.
               
                     of population which came from 
                        North Carolina
                    —almost 27,000 persons as indicated by the federal census of 1860. This was
                    the largest number of North Carolinians living in any northern state; and only two southern states, 
                        Georgia
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    , had given homes to more. When the social history of 
                        North Carolina
                     is recalled, the large proportion of North Carolinians in Indiana's population—
                        Ohio
                     reported by the same census 4,701 and 
                        Illinois
                     13,597—assumes an interesting relevance to the questions now being
                        considered.22
            
            For it is scarcely an exaggeration to say that 
                        North Carolina
                     may be called the mother of humble southern folk types. Here was Colonel
                    Byrd's "lubberland." Here was the colony which had suffered commercially
                    and socially from standing between rich and haughty neighbors; a commonwealth accustomed to
                    disparagement by travelers and journalists; whose natural advantages were said to be slightly
                    appreciated at home and little respected abroad—the latter probably caused by the former,
                    thought Hezekiah Niles.23 From thence was reported the same sort of religious
                    and social landscape which distressed and baffled the sons of the Puritans in southern Indiana and
                    in "
                        Egypt
                    ."24 From 
                        North Carolina
                     came a ludicrous anecdotage similar to that concerned with Indiana: of dogs without
                    long tails—long-tailed ones would knock off the huckleberries chasing foxes and rabbits;
                    one never saw a man or boy with buttons on his pants; they used pegs—wore the buttons off
                    climbing for persimmons.25 Prom these reasons one may suggest a special
                    connection between the Hoosier type which reproduced, and sometimes exaggerated, the folkways of the
                    southern upland and the large migration received by Indiana from 
                        North Carolina
                    ;26
                    
                  
                     22
                            Eighth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1860, Population, 130, 104, 398. Niles' Weekly
                                Register, XXVIII (1825), 86, reported that ten members of the Indiana House of
                            Representatives were natives of 
                                North Carolina
                            . Of other states giving over two members 
                                Kentucky
                             and 
                                Virginia
                             had given seven each, 
                                Pennsylvania
                             six, and 
                                Connecticut
                             three.
                  
                     23
                     Niles' Weekly Register, XIX (1821), 352.
                            See also ibid., XIV (1818), 239. For disparaging accounts by travelers see
                            A. Levasseur, 
                        
                                    Lafayette
                                 in America in 1824–1825, (2 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1829), II, 37–38, and Michel Chevalier, Society,
                                Manners and Politics in the 
                                    United States
                                … (
                                Boston
                            , 1839, trans, by T. G. Bradford), 118–19.
                  
                     24
                            Home Missionary, I, 76–77. Reverend S. Lemmon to Messrs. Badger
                            and Hall, April 21, 1826, and other letters from 
                                North Carolina
                            , 1826–1830, passim, in American Home Missionary
                            Society Papers, 
                                Chicago
                             Theological Seminary.
                  
                     25
                     Yankee Notions, VI, 255.
               
                     not forgetting several thousands of Quakers, not typical
                    uplanders, who came from 
                        North Carolina
                     to Indiana.
            While there is little mystery as to why stereotypes make their appearance, the course of their
                    development is not always simple. Why, for example, did a stereotypic tag fix itself on southern 
                        Illinois
                    , "
                        Egypt
                    ," as a region, while in the case of Indiana "Hoosier" was
                    more nearly personal and state-wide in what it connoted? Why did the Hoosier stereotype develop
                    greater vividness and persistency than other western folk symbols? To what extent is any stereotype,
                    once formulated, self-perpetuating? One may hazard that any regional stereotype is the resultant of
                    numerous circumstances: of physical realities which determine lines of communication and which exert
                    a selective influence, positive and negative, upon migrations; of geographical and social
                    information and misinformation; of desire to have human situations reported in the slashing strokes
                    of caricature. Once formulated, these accretions of fact and popular fancy must have been largely
                    self-propelling, for people are loath to surrender their legends. Upon the pictures called up by
                    these impressions starved imagination could feed; upon them creative imagination could build.
                    Yankee, Hoosier, Yorker, Yahoo—merely to recite the names is to risk being captured by
                    their rhythm.
            A query which occurs at this point concerns the extent to which faithful reporting of the Indiana
                    scene was prevented by the influence of a fixed image in the minds of the reporters; in other words,
                    did witnesses insist upon finding in Indiana what the cliché promised? For upon this play
                    of subjective influence would depend much concerning the reputation of the state and its people.
            For example, it would be interesting to know the extent to which the English Captain Blane, who
                    traveled in the state, allowed the hearsay of the steamboat deck and the taproom to color the
                    statement in his book, published in 
                        London
                     in 1824, that "The Western Americans, and particularly those 
                  
                     26 Guion G. Johnson, Ante-Bellum 
                                    North Carolina
                                : A Social History (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , 1937); the opening chapters provide an entertaining account of this phase of 
                                North Carolina
                            's past.
               
                     of Indiana, are more rough and unpolished in their manners than
                    those of any country I ever travelled in."27 Perhaps it was an openness
                    to suggestion that caused a 
                        Massachusetts
                     Yankee in northern Indiana to write, on his first experience with western illness,
                    "now…I know how the Hoosiers must feel." For this Yankee apparently
                    resigned himself to physical impairment by his very act of entering the state.28
            
            If only itinerant foreigners and unacclimatized outlanders had reported a distinct social milieu in
                    Indiana it might be suggested that they were misled by limited opportunity for observation. But
                    those from nearby, who presumably should have been more familiar with Indiana, also reported a
                    peculiar mode of Hoosier life as well as a process by which outsiders became naturalized to the
                    environment. This appears from a letter of one I. N. Bereman, who wrote back to 
                        Ohio
                     telling about his new wife, Ann Ferguson. As her husband described her, she was an old
                    maid of thirty-two years, both homely and poor, possessing a character without blemish; a Baptist,
                    and a Kentuckian by birth. But, careful to place his wife in a good light with 
                        Ohio
                     relatives, the bridegroom explained: "She had been but 4 or 5 years in the
                    country, and had not got hoozherized so as to be like the natives."29
                    Although they are not of great aid in estimating the weight of subjective influence, these preceding
                    examples show the forthrightness of bona fide references which lie close to the stereotype.
            Nor is the problem much clarified by the close parallel between fanciful and supposedly serious
                    writings. This parallel, often evident, may be illustrated by two bits of composition which appeared
                    in the year 1859, the one a rank yarn of a Kentuckian who had made the error of removing to Indiana
                    and, as a squatter, settling near 
                        Vincennes
                    : 
                  
                     27 Captain William Blane, An Excursion through the 
                                    United States
                                 and 
                                    Canada
                                 during the Years 1822–1823,(
                                    London
                                
                     , 1824), 140.
                  
                     28
                            
                        
                                    Boston
                                 Cultivator (
                                Boston
                            , 1839-), XIV (1852), 380.
                  
                     29 I. N. Bereman, 
                                Madison County
                            , Indiana, to Sally A. Bereman, New Market, 
                                Ohio
                            , August 28, 1835, Bereman Collection, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
               
                    
                    
                        But I wasn' there a week, a'fore I seed the jump. Every darned thing had
                            the ague, and some on'em the milk sick. Squatters shook so hard they had to nail a
                            cover on the bedstead at night to keep 'em from falling off; an' a stake
                            and ridered fence wouldn't stand more'n a year. For the matter of a
                            fortnight I shook to pieces every night, and it took two hours to find my arms and legs in
                            the morning.30
                  
                     The other bit of writing, supposedly veracious, concerned "a genuine specimen of
                    that class of men called Hoosiers," further described by the writer who had encountered his
                    subject at a hotel on Sugar River, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , as a "gaunt, melancholy man, sallow with ague, and filled with an ambition to
                    unfold his melancholy tale…." The Hoosier had left 
                        Kentucky
                    , he related, in order to settle in 
                        Posey County
                    , Indiana; here he had been fearfully set upon by the ague, sold his cabin to a Yankee
                    for a watch, heard there was "a right smart chance of timber on the Wisconse River, and
                    thar's whar I am bound for to go."31
            
            Thus, one may take his choice between serious and fanciful accounts; the impression he would gain of
                    Indiana's society and environment would often be about the same in either case. It is
                    little wonder that fantastic ideas of Indiana's landscape prevailed in many minds long
                    after the geography and society of her neighboring states had become by comparison an open book.
                    Something of the lightness with which easterners carried their knowledge of Indiana's
                    terrain and natural history must be reflected even in such a roguish libel as the following one,
                    said to be a New 
                        England
                     girl's view of the 
                        Wabash
                     country: 
                        Great Western waste of bottom land
                        Flat as a pancake, rich as grease;
                        Where gnats are full as big as toads,
                        And 'skeeters are as big as geese.
                        Oh, lonesome, windy, grassy place,
                        Where buffaloes and snakes prevail;
                        The first with dreadful looking face,
                        The last with dreadful sounding tail.
                        
                     
                        30
                                Yankee Notions, VIII, 119–21.
                     
                        31
                                Great Republic Monthly (2 vols., 
                                    New York
                                , 1859), I, 635. The quotations are taken from one of a series of articles
                                evidently by one writer.
                  
                        
                        I'd rather live on camel's rump,
                        And be a Yankee Doodle beggar,
                        Than where they never see a stump,
                        And shake to death with fever'n ager.32
                  
                    
            
            Perhaps an investigator of the future will analyze the process by which the sharp light of
                    understanding penetrated the vapors which obscured Indiana's society. Even the assiduous
                    editors of Yankee Nations eventually tired of stories of legislators too ignorant
                    to wind a watch or of congressmen-elect who set out in the wrong direction for 
                        Washington
                    , since in the last three or four volumes of that serial the number of Hoosier stories
                    is negligible. It would be interesting to know the time of appearance and the amount of credit due
                    the several "normalizing" forces—infiltration of new stock, the
                    building of railroads and highways which have helped Americans to know how their neighbors live, and
                    the social uniformities induced by the machines. A clue to the substantial changes that were taking
                    place by the middle of the 1850's is the note appearing in an Eastern paper that
                    "of the ninety-one counties of Indiana, the inhabitants of eighty can leave home in the
                    morning, go to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , attend to business there, and return the same day."33 One
                    would doubtless find also that the drainage renaissance, noticeable about 1850, and coming to a new
                    phase of effectiveness about 1880, was of cardinal importance.34
            
            Yet in spite of ameliorative forces, literate outlanders surrendered the Hoosier stereotype with
                    reluctance. The account left by a woman journalist of 
                        California
                     who visited 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the summer of 1876 is in point. Writing under the name of "Kate
                    Heath"—her real name was Julia B. Foster—the visitor spent a long paragraph,
                    surgary and Victorian, expressing surprise at the middle-class sophistication of the city. Yet she
                    could scarcely give up the quest 
                  
                     32
                            Yankee Notions, X, 317.
                  
                     33
                            Moore's Rural New Yorker (
                                New York
                            , 1849-), VIII (1856), 242.
                  
                     34 See Fifteenth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                : 1930, Drainage of Agricultural Lands, map preceding p. 1, and passim. Charles Kettle-borough, Investigation of the Drainage Laws of
                            Indiana (typed MS., Indiana State Library, 1914), 49, and passim. Fourteenth
                                Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , VII, Irrigation and Drainage.
               
                     without finding at least one Hoosier. "Before I left 
                        California
                    ," she declared, 
                        I thought I should find Hoosiers in Indiana, and rough uncultured Hawk-eyes in 
                                Iowa
                            ; but somehow I am woefully disappointed, for they all seem to be men and women
                            everywhere, and a lady traveling alone has only to put her trust in God and the
                            conductor….I almost believe I have seen one little Hoosier though…who
                            is kind of cold-colored, a sort of drab that takes in hair, eyes, face and dress, and
                            baptizes each with a shivery and melancholy bluish tint. She occupies the position of
                            "second girl" and when she comes to fill the drinking pitchers she rattles
                            the ice around in a sad-eyed way as if to tell you how she was cut out for an iceberg
                            herself, filled up with a warm soul and sent here to tend to the pitchers and draw water out
                            of the cistern. Someone said once it was because she'd had the chills so much, but
                            when the question was asked her she answered: "No, mem; but I had the ager off
                            an' on for seven years." When she isn't well she says she feels
                            "kind of donsie," and when you come suddenly upon her mopping at the
                            pitchers she turns a shade bluer, and exclaims, in a thin, indigo tone, "Granther
                            grievous, what a scare!" When hot weather comes she says she "just stops
                            around," and when she tidies her wispy hair and puts on a clean dress she
                            "reds herself up a bit." She jerks one shoulder and says she came
                            "out of the North, dropped round in the West awhile," and finally
                            concluded to "hire out." She thinks 
                                Indianapolis
                             is "no slouch of a town." Is she a genuine Hoosier, do you
                            think? I don't dare ask hereabouts35
                  
                    
            
            Also interesting, to end examples, is a piece entitled "The Hoosiers at Home,"
                    contributed by Mary Dean to Lippincott's Magazine, three years after Kate
                    Heath's visit. Bringing to her assignment a considerable amount of social understanding,
                    Mary Dean associated the "true and most characteristic Hoosier" with the
                    Scotch-Carolinian, suggesting that, "If you want to know how Fingal or Ossian kept house,
                    enter a Hoosier cabin." She correctly appraised the toughness of the Hoosier cultural
                    fiber, insisting that they had deeply influenced their neighbors, "though they do not
                    themselves change with the lapse of the ages." Although Mary Dean saw many things to praise
                    in the Hoosiers—dignity, nonchalance, refusal to be hurried; tall and powerfully strong
                    men; children with good faces, and eyes with a "steady 
                  
                     35
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 6, 1876, quoting the 
                                Sacramento
                            , 
                                California
                            , Record-Union. For information concerning the identity of
                            "Kate Heath" the writer is obliged to the Librarian of the 
                                San Francisco
                             Public Library.
               
                     Hoosier look"—she repeated much of the old story
                    without cautioning her readers that the same conditions might apply in two dozen other states: many
                    homes without windows; indifferent farmways; full poorhouses, idlers haunting groceries and saloons,
                    when farmers were offering two dollars a day in harvest. Fundamental to her picture were the
                    "ancientry," striking in their "Dantesque leanness," with hair
                    and beards perfectly sublime in their abundance, patriarches who had survived the plaguy wetness of
                    the Indiana terrain: 
                        An old man who has all his life seen the white mist rising of mornings from the
                            "sloo," whose farm goes "squish" under his feet for lack
                            of drainage, and is posted along its roadside fences with advertisements of "The
                            Great Ague Cure" makes a wonderful picture.36
                  
                    Although Mary Dean may have been simply less naive than Kate Heath in confessing what she
                    expected to find, both of the accounts fall well within the period which has seen the Hoosier legend
                    softened more nearly to coincide with changes in Hoosier society. Interestingly, the chronology of
                    the data cited in this paper makes it clear that the influence of Edward Eggleston's famous
                        Hoosier Schoolmaster, published in 1871, preceded as it was by almost a
                    half-century of literary depiction of the Hoosier type, was fixative rather than generative.
            Public property, a stereotype, is appropriated to all sorts of uses. If, on the one hand, a writer in
                    the Atlantic Monthly unkindly placed "Hoosiers" between
                    "Pluguglies" and "Gamblers," in enumerating the sorts of people
                    who overran the city of 
                        Washington
                     during the tense weeks following Lincoln's first election,37 Indiana folk were doubtless pleased when Walt Whitman described Lincoln as a
                    "Hoosier Michael 
                  
                     36
                     Lippincott's Magazine (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1868–1916), XXIII (1879), 441–44. Miss Caroline Dunn,
                            Librarian of the William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society,
                            very kindly called attention to an obituary item in the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, October 21, 1917, which stated that Miss Dean, a contributor to several
                            magazines, was born at Deansboro, 
                                New York
                            , in 1839. Members of her family who located in 
                                Indianapolis
                             about 1870 are listed in the city directory beginning in 1871, although Mary
                            Dean is not listed for many years thereafter.
                  
                     37
                     Atlantic Monthly (
                                Boston
                            , 1857-), VII (1861), 6.
               
                     Angelo," even when he added that the face was
                    "so awful ugly it becomes beautiful with its strange mouth, its deep cut, criss-cross
                    lines, and its doughnut complexion."38 In spite of its sometimes uneasy
                    implications there are comforting reflections concerning the Hoosier stereotype. If peoples and
                    regions are to be represented by tags and symbols, one may well prefer them to be of a thumping and
                    positive sort. Gusty, full-blown and flamboyant, there was nothing halfway or milk-and-waterish
                    about the Hoosier stereotype. In present days when it is common to deplore the prospect of eventual
                    erasure of cultural variety it is a comfort that Indiana has the tradition of being different; a
                    solace that Indiana was distinctive enough to generate a robust stereotype. It is to be hoped that
                    Indiana is indeed "the State that has not been ironed out," in the words of a
                    reviewer of Heath Bowman's recent book, Hoosier.39
            
            Mary Dean remarked the "Oriental indifference" of the Indiana folk, and further
                    explained: "A Hoosier is unimpressible, incurious and incapable of awe. He lives at an
                    inaccessible height of self-respect…."40 What matter then if
                    eastern editors, enterprisers and uplifters appeared less interested in Indiana than in her
                    neighbors? What matter if the public appeared content with garbled or incomplete information
                    concerning the state?—one could read the widely circulated 
                        Albany
                    
                    Cultivator of 1838, for example, and gain the impression that Indiana was almost
                    the only sickly spot on the continent that sickly summer.41 What matter if an
                    easterner, despairing and thrice bereft from residence on the 
                        Wabash
                    , used the name of that river to epitomize heartbreak?—"My wife thinks we
                    have been pretty thoroughly Wabashed," one of them wrote.42 What matter if an observer 
                  
                     38 Quoted by Roy P. Basler, The Lincoln Legend (
                                Boston
                            , 1935), 95.
                  
                     39
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times Book Review, August 10, 1941, p. 19.
                  
                     40
                            Lippincott's Magazine, XXIII, 442, 443.
                  
                     41
                     Cultivator (
                                Albany
                            , 
                                New York
                            , 1834–1865), V (1838), 162. The Home Missionary,
                            XI (1838), 149, whose editors received quarterly reports from scores of localities remarked:
                            "Almost every Missionary report which comes from beyond the mountains, speaks of
                            the present as a sickly season."
                  
                     42 Reverend J. R. Wheelock, 
                                Greencastle
                            , Indiana, to Absalom Peters, January 23, 1837, American Home Missionary Society
                            Papers, 
                                Chicago
                             Theological Seminary. The Wheelocks had lived at Clinton, Indiana.
               
                     at Buffalo near the same time thought the probable destination
                    of a ne'er-do-well migrant with fourteen or fifteen worthless dogs would be
                    "Indiana, or the Lord knows where"?43 Notwithstanding
                    occasional protests, the Hoosiers remained singularly unmoved by it all. Serene, like their friendly
                    visitor Kate Heath, they appear merely to have put their trust "in God and the
                    conductor."
            
               
                  43
                  Genesee Farmer (
                     Rochester, New York
                  ,
                        1831–1865), IV, August 23, 1834.
            
         
         
         
            The Colfax-Turpie Congressional Campaigns 1862–1866
            WILLARD H. SMITH
            
            Few congressional campaigns in Indiana have been more interesting, or more bitterly fought, than
                    those in which Schuyler Colfax and David A. Turpie were the nominees of the rival parties in 1862,
                    1864, and 1866. During that period Colfax of 
                        South Bend
                     was one of the most popular Republican leaders, not only in Indiana but in the country
                    as a whole. Even before his election to Congress he had attained a state-wide reputation as the
                    publisher of a leading Whig newspaper, the 
                  
                            St. Joseph
                         Valley Register. Elected to the national House of Representatives in 1854 on
                    the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     tide, Colfax was re-elected successively until his nomination for the vice-presidency
                    in 1868. Rising rapidly to a position of influence and leadership in the party and nation, he served
                    as a speaker of the house for three successive terms in the turbulent years 1863–1869.1
            
            The political opponent who gave Colfax his stiffest competition was his three-time rival, David A.
                    Turpie of 
                        Monticello
                    . As a lawyer, state legislator and a candidate for lieutenant governor in 1860, he had
                    by 1862 already become a prominent leader in the Democratic party in Indiana. As evidence of this,
                    the fact may be cited that when he ran for lieutenant governor in 1860 the understanding was that in
                    the event of party success Thomas A. Hendricks, the candidate for governor, would be elected to the 
                        United States
                     Senate and Turpie would automatically become governor.2 Not
                    successful in that campaign, he attained a few years later a still higher office—that of 
                        United States
                     senator.
            The setting for the contests between these two party leaders was in the hectic period of the Civil
                    War and Reconstruction. Even in normal times Hoosiers have had the reputation of taking their
                    politics seriously; indeed, it has been said that they talk politics for two hours after they 
                  
                     1 For information on the earlier period of Colfax's life see
                            Willard H. Smith, "Schuyler Colfax: Whig Editor, 1845–1855,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIV (1938), 262–82.
                  
                     2 Henry S. Lane and Oliver P. Morton, who ran on the Republican ticket
                            for governor and lieutenant governor respectively, had the same understanding. David Turpie,
                                Sketches of My Own Times (
                                Indianapolis
                            , c. 1903), 184.
               
                     are dead! It can then well be understood that during the stress
                    of the Civil War and Reconstruction, when emotions were deeply stirred, political campaigns were not
                    pink tea affairs.
            In July, 1862, Colfax, the sitting house member from the ninth district, arrived home from 
                        Washington
                     to give the first account of his legislative activity since the outbreak of the war.
                    Earlier in the year there was a rumor to the effect that he would seek appointment to the 
                        United States
                     Senate to fill the unexpired term of Jesse D. Bright, who had been expelled. But Colfax
                    informed Governor Morton that he was not a candidate for the position.3 It
                    seems, too, that he was giving some thought to the possibility of securing a cabinet position. His
                    friend, Horace Greeley, advised him that if the cabinet "is to be a strong, energetic,
                    driving, fighting Cabinet, go in! If not, stay out!"4 Whatever may have
                    been the reason, Colfax was not appointed.
            The way was therefore open for the renomination of the congressman. The district Union convention,
                    meeting at 
                        Plymouth
                     on July 24, renominated him by acclamation. Addressing the convention Colfax praised
                    the national administration and pointed out in particular the abolition of slavery in the 
                        District of Columbia
                    , and the passage of the homestead and confiscation acts. He added that the President
                    had given him and others a pledge that henceforth the war was to be prosecuted in earnest. In this
                    and other campaign speeches Colfax made his appeal to all Union men and endeavored to make his cause
                    identical with that of the Union.5 As his former competitors for Congress were
                    all either in the army or on the stump for the Republican candidate there was apparently some
                    justification for this position.6
            
            Colfax entered the campaign with the feeling that the odds were against him. The failure of the North
                    to effect striking military victories against the South brought about a reaction among northern
                    people which affected political contests. Many also felt that the enlistment of voters in 
                  
                     3
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, February 27, 1862.
                  
                     4 Horace Greeley to Schuyler Colfax, January 30, 1862, Colfax MSS., 
                                New York
                             Public Library.
                  
                     5
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, August 7, 1862.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., September 11, 1862; Orando J. Hollister, Life of
                                Schuyler Colfax (
                                New York
                            , 1886), 196.
               
                     the army affected the Republican more than the Democratic
                    party. For a month before the canvass got under way Colfax, in carrying out a promise made to
                    President Abraham Lincoln, went on a speaking tour in his and other districts to encourage
                    enlistments in the army. In his own county of 
                        St. Joseph
                     he offered to give ten dollars to each of the first fifty volunteers who enrolled after
                    the offer was made.7 His great success in this respect caused him to have some
                    misgivings politically. 
                        The volunteering is terrible on us politically; & I fear the State is lost by it. At
                            first it seemed impossible to get any one to go; but my meetings in this District [his own]
                            were immense, the largest I ever attended; this enthusiasm got up to fever heat; &
                            with the fear of a draft aiding, we shall have nearly 3,000 from this Dist instead of 1,000.
                            Unless we have more Union Dems, voting with us in Oct8 than we now know
                            of, the Dist. is in danger if not lost.9
                  
                    
            
            Another reason for Colfax's misgivings likely was the fact that the Democrats had selected
                    to run against him one of their strongest and most popular men, David A. Turpie. Colfax's
                        Register referred to Turpie as "a Democrat of the
                    Voorhees-Vallandigham school, and as such will never receive the endorsement of the loyal voters of
                    the 'Bloody Ninth.' "10 Turpie invited Colfax to the
                    usual joint discussion of the political issues, "especially of the civil policy of the last
                    Congress of which you was [sic] a member.11 The challenge was
                    of course accepted. Fortunately for the student of that period, Turpie has left his own account of
                    those stirring times.
            
                    These joint meetings were held at all the county-seats and at many other places in the more
                        populous counties; the time occupied was about six weeks of successive speech days, omitting
                        Sundays. At each of these meetings there were two timekeepers and two moderators, chosen by the
                        respective parties. The order was that no one was to be admitted to the stand except these four
                        and the two speakers, but in the tumultuous excitement of those days this rule was sometimes
                        violated and the crowd around us became so dense as to be oppressive. The whole time of the
                        joint discussion was three hours. The party who began spoke an hour in the opening and had half
                        an hour to close, 
                     
                        7
                                
                                    South Bend
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                        St. Joseph
                                     Valley Register, July 24 and August 7, 1862.
                     
                        8 Indiana, as did some of the other states, still had its state
                                elections in October.
                     
                        9 Colfax to "Squire" Heaton, August 14, 1862,
                                Colfax MSS., Northern Indiana Historical Museum, 
                                    South Bend
                                , Indiana.
                     
                        10
                                
                                    South Bend
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                        St. Joseph
                                     Valley Register, August 14, 1862.
                     
                        11
                                Ibid., September 18, 1862.
                  
                         the other spoke an hour and a half in the interval; and
                        this order alternated from day to day.
                    These meetings were well attended, two or three thousand being a not unusual audience. They were
                        often held out of doors in the woods, quite distant from railway lines…. Such was the
                        intense and eager political feeling of the time that no account was taken of the weather. On
                        several occasions we addressed large crowds of men and women standing in the rain….
                        The care and precaution of the committee of arrangements for the preservation of order were
                        heartily seconded by the audience and by the candidates. For although we were conducting a
                        canvass in the very face of those bitter strifes and animosities engendered by the existence of
                        a civil war, my competitor and myself both intended that no social war should result from our
                        controversies.
                    Both parties united in preparing the platform for the speakers, and seats for the audience. The
                        main stand was always decorated with the national flag, with wreaths of cedar, green boughs, and
                        garlands of wild flowers—the goldenrod and the asters, white and blue. Very little
                        money was spent in these decorations. They might be today accounted cheap and trivial, yet they
                        were real tokens of respect for the occasion, part of the manner and custom of the time.12
               
                
            Written in the evening of his thought it does not carry the acerbity of those heated times. The
                    author noted that it was "difficult to conceive that the momentous questions then
                    engrossing public attention, the speakers who engaged in their discussion, and the enthusiastic
                    audiences who heard them and who greeted their respective champions with thundering acclamation of
                    welcome and applause, belong now to a past still and quiet."13 Turpie
                    usually began his speech with a plea for the Union. Nevertheless the Republicans, including Colfax,
                    endeavored to cast suspicion upon Turpie's patriotism. On one occasion Colfax, while
                    speaking, attempted to embarrass his competitor by turning abruptly toward him and remarking that if
                    he was such a devoted friend of the Union he should shoulder his musket and help fight its battles.
                    When his turn to speak came, Turpie replied that he was "entirely willing" to do
                    so, but was 
                        only waiting until Mr. Colfax should be commissioned as colonel to raise and organize a
                            regiment; that I would volunteer in it as a private and would remain in the service as long
                            as he remained in command. My competitor never repeated this method of attack.14
                  
                    No doubt Turpie would have agreed with the comment of 
                  
                     12 Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times,
                            194–96
                  
                     13
                     Ibid., 196.
                  
                     14
                     Ibid., 196–97.
               
                     Senator John J. Crittenden who spoke of Colfax as one
                    "whose patriotism always overflowed and inundated him on every occasion."15
            
            Another incident which Turpie recorded indicates the resourcefulness of the zealous partisans of that
                    day. In a debate at a railroad junction Turpie discovered in his opening speech that a locomotive on
                    a switch near-by had a great deal of whistling to do about the time he wanted to make his points
                    "pungent and apposite." At first he thought this was accidental and made nothing
                    of it. But when his voice was drowned out, with increasing frequency, by longer and louder
                    interruptions than before, he began to perceive that a game was being played at his expense. His
                    observation of signals being passed between the engineer in the cab and persons near the stand
                    confirmed his suspicions. While he was waiting in embarrassment, the chairman of the Democratic
                    county committee came and advised him to go on and pay no attention to the disturbance; as he would
                    make the matter "right and satisfactory." Turpie accordingly finished his remarks
                    and gave way to Colfax. After the latter had warmed up to his subject and had reached one of his
                    highest flights another engine which had been brought onto the switch "commenced and
                    continued a deafening discharge of blasts and blowing." Colfax stood aghast but smiling.
                    There had been a change of politics in the engineers! Colfax continued despite the disturbance of
                    this "Democratic" locomotive. After it left the debate was concluded without
                    interruption. As the speakers left the stand Turpie asked his competitor how he liked the new method
                    of applause by steam. Colfax replied that they had "carried the matter too far, entirely
                    too far."16
            
            The outcome of the election was the usual victory for Colfax, but by the smallest margin in his
                    entire congressional career. His official majority was 229.17 Turpie in fact
                    carried more counties than did Colfax. The latter knew the battle would be close and was prepared
                    for defeat. He had stated that if he was defeated he would be at the front 
                  
                     15 Mrs. Chapman Coleman, The Life of John J.
                            Crittenden (2 vols. in 1, 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1871), II, 354.
                  
                     16 Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times,
                            197–98.
                  
                     17
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, October 23, 1862.
               
                     with a regiment of his own in less than a month18 Republicans, in explaining their close call in the district, made much of the alleged
                    fact that most of the soldiers would have supported Colfax, had they been at home to vote. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal stated that "an accurate return of the volunteers in the Ninth
                    District, and their political leanings," showed this to be true.19
                    Colfax himself subscribed to this explanation. Soon after the election he wrote to Senator John
                    Sherman: 
                        You know of course that I had a bitter contest to go through here, the enemy exhibiting more
                            malignity & hate than ever before. They thought they had my scalp this time sure;
                            & the District by the immense & one sided volunteering was really lost; but
                            hard work saved it. I was on the stump every day for over two months, & squeezed
                            through at last by 229….We sent 4/5 of the Volunteers & the secret
                            sympathizers stayed home to seize the government at the polls, State & National.20
                  
                    
            
            The Register likewise accepted this explanation of the narrow margin of victory,
                    but added that misrepresentation of the tax and the draft laws also contributed. Finally, it thought
                    that absurd stories about hundreds of Negroes which, under the supervision of Colfax, were to be
                    brought from the South to northern Indiana where they were to be used to push down wages, also
                    played their part in the reaction. The Democrats heatedly denied, however, that Republican reverses
                    could be explained by the absence of most of the soldiers and even claimed that Democratic gains
                    would have been greater had all the soldiers voted.21 So sanguine had been the
                    Democrats of success, according to the Register, that they publicly announced how
                    they intended to commemorate their victory: "A bonfire of boxes would not answer. They
                    intended to use black walnut lumber. They were to 
                  
                     18 Lew Wallace, Schuyler Colfax, 19, Colfax MSS., in the Indiana State
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; Hollister, Life of Colfax, 198.
                  
                     19 The figures are as follows: 
                        
                           Whole number of men enlisted
                           11,064
                        
                        
                           Voters
                           8,110
                        
                        
                           Union men
                           6,125
                        
                        
                           Democrats
                           1,985
                        
                      These figures are taken from the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, October 28, 1862.
                  
                     20 Schuyler Colfax to John Sherman, October 27, 1862, Sherman MSS.,
                            Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.
                  
                     21See, for instance, 
                                Goshen
                            , Indiana, Democrat, October 22, 1862.
               
                     have a coffin and a burial, a burning in effigy, and other
                    gentlemanly demonstrations."22
            
            Letters from Colfax's soldier-friends indicate how happy—as well as how
                    vindictive—they felt about the victory. One such wanted the Union armies to sweep like a
                    tornado through rebel territory and level everything before it that smacked of rebellion. 
                        Let the pathway of our armies be marked with destruction and death, unglove the hand and
                            strike fiercely and savagely for Life—Less than this will be to fritter away our
                            energies, until treason gets a foothold in the northern States.
                     The writer added that among the soldiers emancipation was not viewed in humanitarian light,
                    but that there was a universal desire to emancipate the slave in order to weaken the slaveholder
                    "and spite him to boot."23 Another friend in the army, upon
                    hearing of Colfax's victory, wrote as follows: 
                        Didn't we all get as near drunk as even a dignified Quartermaster's
                            Dep't ought to? Schuyler I have been mad for 6 weeks over that race. To think that
                            you were running against such an infernal blackguard and scoundrel as Dave Turpie was too
                            much. Heavens! how I did ache to be 'turned loose in the
                            deestrict' during that canvass, not to talk but to fight. I think
                            that with a platton [sic] of Hoosiers I could have cleaned David and his friends out, and thats [sic] what ought to be
                            done, [sic] It's of no earthly use, to reason with such Animals.
                            I go in for threshing them like thunder. Wait two years.24
                  
                    
            
            Though defeated for the house, Turpie was shortly to find himself in the 
                        United States
                     Senate. The newly-elected state legislature, being Democratic on joint ballot, elected
                    him to fill the brief unexpired term of Jesse D. Bright who had been expelled for activities which
                    many considered bordered upon treason.25
            
            While Colfax slipped through to victory by a small majority in the election of 1862 many of his
                    fellow congressmen were not even that successful. The Republican (Union) party suffered enough
                    defeats to bring gloom to many in 
                  
                     22
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, October 23, 1862.
                  
                     23 Col. W. H. Blake to Colfax, November 7, 1862, Colfax MSS., Indiana
                            State Library.
                  
                     24 Gil Pierce to Colfax, October 30, 1862, Colfax MSS., Indiana State
                            Library.
                  
                     25 William W. Woolen, Biographical and Historical
                                Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883), 229.
               
                     the North. Not a few Republicans were inclined to lay the blame
                    for their reverses upon the administration's lack of a vigorous war policy.
            It was fondly hoped in the North, of course, that long before the next election occurred the war
                    would be brought to a victorious conclusion. Such was not to be the case. The chief concern of
                    Congress in the intervening years therefore continued to be the prosecution of the war. Union
                    victories at 
                        Gettysburg
                    , Vicksburg, and 
                        Chattanooga
                     in the summer and fall of 1863 dissipated some of the gloom in the North, but
                    Grant's losses in the Wilderness campaign and at Cold Harbor brought no rejoicing.
            As the campaign of 1864 approached it was certain that issues connected with the war would again be
                    stressed. President Lincoln was renominated and the Democrats selected as their presidential nominee
                    General George B. McClellan, who was to run on a platform which called for a cessation of the war.
            According to a letter published in several 
                        Washington
                     newspapers in January, 1864, Colfax had planned to retire at the end of that
                    congressional term.26 This announcement was received with regret by his friends.
                    Many of his constituents wrote to him to that effect, and the delegates at the Republican (Union)
                    state convention from the ninth district asked him to reconsider the matter. In March, Speaker
                    Colfax replied that after a thorough reconsideration of the whole question he felt that he ought not
                    to desert his post if his constituents insisted otherwise. His determination to retire "was
                    only changed in consequence of the critical condition of the district politically, from the absence
                    of so many thousands of its voters in the field." If in public life at all, he said, he
                    preferred to represent the ninth district to any other position in the government.27 This letter left his renomination by the district convention a mere formality.
            David Turpie—"Dirty Dave" or David "Turpitude" some of the
                    Republicans called him—was again nominated for the congressional seat by the Democrats.
                    This was 
                  
                     26
                            
                                Washington
                            , D. C., Star, January 21, 1864, as quoted in the 
                                New York
                            
                            News, January 22, 1864.
                  
                     27 Colfax to J. W. Eldridge et al, March 18, 1864,
                            as quoted in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, March 31, 1864; see also ibid., April 8,
                            1864.
               
                     done despite the fact that the state Democratic convention had
                    already chosen him as its candidate for lieutenant governor. The Democratic district convention
                    asked Mr. Turpie to accept the congressional candidacy instead, because, as they thought, he was
                    defeated in a very close race "by fraud and trickery" in 1862. The Democrats
                    thought the indications were that Colfax would be buried so deep politically "that he will
                    be beyond redemption by special ressurrection [sic]." Faced with the
                    necessity of choice Turpie turned down the nomination for lieutenant governor. His great ambition in
                    life, as reported, was "to lay Schuyler Colfax upon the shelf." That done, he
                    would be ready like Simeon of old, to say: "Lord, let now thy servant depart in peace, for
                    mine eyes have seen thy salvation."28 Colfax, according to the
                    resolutions of the convention, deserved "the just condemnation of all law abiding
                    citizens" for his course in Congress.29
            
            Colfax thought the nomination of Turpie indicated that the "Cops" intended to make
                    a desperate fight in the district.30 A 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune correspondent admitted that Turpie was a man of great talents and one of
                    the most distinguished lawyers in the state, and that he was the strongest candidate the Democrats
                    could have nominated. The correspondent added, however, that Turpie was 
                        a great blackguard in the manner of conducting a canvass, nevertheless. He is utterly
                            unscrupulous and devoid of principle as a politician. He can dive deeper and come up dirtier
                            than any man in the business to my notion…. He is immense on the 'nigger
                            question.' That subject becomes a harp of a thousand strings in his hands, and he
                            can play any kind of a tune upon it.31
                  
                    
            
            In a Tribune editorial Turpie was characterized as "the most unscrupulous
                    liar in the Copperhead party."32 Some of the Republican papers in the
                    district were just as free in the bandying of epithets33
            
            
               
                  28
                        
                            Chicago
                         Tribune, July 23, 1864; 
                            Mishawaka
                        , Indiana, Enterprise, July 25 and 27, 1864.
               
                  29
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana Daily State Sentinel, July 25 and 27, 1864.
               
                  30 Colfax to Heaton, July 22, 1864, Colfax MSS., Northern Indiana
                        Historical Museum. The "Cops" were the "Copperheads,"
                        individuals who opposed the war policy of the Lincoln administration.
               
                  31
                        
                            Chicago
                        
                        Tribune, August 15, 1864.
               
                  32
                        Ibid., October 10, 1864.
               
                  33 See, for example, 
                            Mishawaka
                        , Indiana, Enterprise, September 10, 1864.
            
            
            Turpie spent much time denouncing the draft.34 This feature of the campaign,
                    together with the fact that northern military prospects still looked none too bright, worried Colfax
                    in the early part of the canvass. "It seems to me," he wrote, "as if a
                    draft in Sept. would lay us out."35 Later, again noting the bad effect
                    of the impending draft, he added that "we need some brilliant victories
                        terribly."36 "The prospect politically is dead,"
                    he wrote on August 24.37 On August 29 Colfax wrote to President Lincoln as
                    follows: 
                        "The odds are heavy against us in Indiana. The impending draft, armed traitors at
                            home giving us our hands full to manage & control, high prices, lack of military
                            successes, & the prolongation of the War, all add to the weight of these
                            odds."
                    He pleaded for a delay of the enforcement of the draft and urged that as many soldiers as
                    possible be allowed to return to vote.38 He likewise urged the immediate arrest
                    of the Grand Commander of the Sons of Liberty in Indiana. "I defend," he
                    continued, "the 'arbitrary arrests' out & out on the stump as you
                    will see, & it is the most popular of all." Colfax enclosed a report of one of his
                    campaign speeches to show the President how Colfax was urging his constituents to stand by the
                        government.39 In September he joined Governor Morton and others in sending a
                    letter to Secretary Stanton in which they asked for an informal delay in the enforcement of the
                    draft which was to occur on the eve of the Indiana election, and urged the return of soldiers for
                    the purpose of voting. Quite a few were permitted to return.40
            
            The situation was considered sufficiently critical by Colfax that he brought into the district such
                    speakers as James A. Garfield, a congressman from 
                        Ohio
                    , and Andrew Johnson, the candidate for the vice-presidency on the Union ticket.
                    "No one man living," wrote Colfax to Johnson, 
                  
                     34
                     Ibid., September 10, 1864.
                  
                     35 Colfax to Heaton, July 22, 1864, Colfax MSS., Northern Indiana
                            Historical Museum.
                  
                     36
                            Idem to idem, August 9, 1864.
                  
                     37
                            Idem to idem, August 24, 1864.
                  
                     38 Indiana did not provide for soldiers voting in
                                absentia.
                  
                     39 The letter and the report are in the Edwin M. Stanton MSS., in the
                            Library of Congress.
                  
                     40 William D. Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1899), I, 367–69.
               
                    "could do us more good in the State than you."
                    Johnson replied, "Anything I can do to save your election, will be most cheerfully
                        performed."41
            
            In the meantime Colfax and Turpie were engaging in the usual joint canvass. Colfax defended the
                    administration and approved the acts passed by Congress in the prosecution of the war. He endorsed
                    "most heartily the policy of confiscating the property of rebels voluntarily in arms
                    against their country," and praised the administration for striking at slavery,
                    "the cause of all our woes."42
            
            Turpie took his cue from the resolutions adopted by the district convention which nominated him.
                    These declared the war to be the "legitimate result of the teachings and blasting
                    influences of abolitionism." Besides condemning the transformation of the war into one of
                    abolition the resolutions declared it to be "a disastrous failure" and recommended
                    immediate negotiations for an honorable peace. Colfax was condemned for 
                        his attempt to abridge the right of free discussion in the halls of Congress;43 and for his base subserviency to the reigning despotism at 
                                Washington
                             in its attempts to destroy the rights and liberties of the people, manifested
                            by his justification of the suppression of the writ of habeas corpus, the arbitrary arrest
                            of unoffending citizens, the emancipation proclamation,…the confiscation of
                            property, [and others acts].44
                  
                    
            
            At the outset of the war Colfax had said that the issue was between patriots and traitors and
                    optimistically thought that all party divisions would disappear.45 When, to the
                    chagrin of Colfax and others, party divisions did not disappear, the Republicans had a tendency to
                    look upon critics of the administration as enemies of the Union. But the position of Turpie and
                    northern Democrats in general, who were also lovers of the Union, was that political parties were
                    just as necessary in time of war as in time of peace. Turpie clearly stated this position in the
                    following words: 
                  
                     41Colfax to Andrew Johnson, August 17, 1864, Johnson MSS., Library of
                            Congress; Andrew Johnson to Colfax, September 14, 1864, Forrest H. Sweet Collection, Battle
                            Creek, 
                                Michigan
                            ; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, October 3, 1864.
                  
                     42
                            
                                Mishawaka
                            , Indiana, Enterprise, July 9, 1864.
                  
                     43 This was a reference to Colfax's attempt to have Alexander
                            Long, Democratic member from 
                                Ohio
                            , expelled from the house in 1864.
                  
                     44
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Daily State Sentinel, July 25, 1864.
                  
                     45
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, April 18, 1861.
               
                    
                    
                        Doubtless it is the duty of men of all parties to support the government engaged in the
                            prosecution of a war against a public enemy, whether foreign or domestic. But this is a very
                            different thing from saying that all citizens should dissolve their party organizations,
                            surrender their political convictions and unite in electing a president and members of both
                            houses of Congress wholly of the same party. Such a unity would only lead to an unchecked,
                            unchallenged system of in-competency, corruption and oppression. Minority and majority
                            parties are, in a free government, necessities as useful in time of war as in peace. An
                            administration happening to be in power is not the government. The government of this
                            Republic is worth more than this administration or any other and will outlast them. This was
                            our position; it was openly taken and upheld and it was never relinquished or abandoned, not
                            even in the utmost extremity of disaster.46
                  
                    
            
            As noted above, the prospect for the Republicans at the outset of the campaign looked none too
                    bright. But in September, northern military prospects, and incidentally Republican hopes, materially
                    brightened with the fall of 
                        Atlanta
                     to the Union forces. It is difficult to exaggerate the effect of this news. To Lincoln
                    and the Republicans the victory was a godsend. Colfax also, of course, shared the joy of these
                    brighter prospects. It is likely that he would have won without the 
                        Atlanta
                     victory but the outcome certainly would have been less certain. At any rate, Colfax was
                    successful in the October election, as was the state ticket, an outcome which pointed to victory for
                    the national ticket in November. His margin of victory this time was 1,680, which was considerably
                    larger than in 1862.47
            
            Having put forth every effort to defeat Colfax, the Democrats were deeply chagrined at the result. As
                    is not infrequently true of some members of the defeated party, an attempt was made to explain the
                    outcome on the basis of fraud. The Democratic 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Herald declared that Turpie's defeat was "the result of
                    the most unparalleled frauds and unblushing iniquity upon the part of the Republicans."48
            
            Before the time for the next campaign had come, a succession of momentous events had occurred,
                    including the ending of the war, the assassination of President Lincoln, the placing of Andrew
                    Johnson in the presidential chair and the break between the President and Congress on
                    reconstruction. 
                  
                     46 Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times, 211.
                  
                     47 Hollister, Life of Schuyler Colfax, 243.
                  
                     48
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Herald, July 21, 1866.
               
                     In the ensuing political campaigns therefore the issues would
                    have to do with reconstruction rather than with war.
            In 1866 for a third time the same two men were called by their respective parties to make the race
                    for the House of Representatives. Turpie thought that 
                        These three successive campaigns with their accompanying joint discussions covering a period
                            of six years, made between the same competitors, with the same result, are perhaps without a
                            parallel in the history of our state. [It was not unusual, he added, that] the party
                            uniformly successful should have retained…the same candidate…, but
                            that the minority party, under these circumstances, should have steadily adhered to its
                            defeated candidate is somewhat uncommon.49
                  
                    
            
            In a letter to the district Republican convention Colfax declared that the contest was as vital as it
                    was in 1862 and 1864. He declared the issue to be: "Which shall govern in the Councils of
                    the Nation, Loyalty or Disloyalty?" He vigorously defended congressional reconstruction and
                    said it was necessary to uphold Congress in order to avoid a second rebellion. He rejoiced that his
                    party had been "so faithful, so inflexible, in what it has regarded as the pathway of Duty
                    and of Right." The resolutions adopted followed the tenor of this letter.50
            
            The resolutions of the convention which nominated Turpie condemned the high protective tariff, Negro
                    suffrage, which was scented in the proposed Fourteenth Amendment, the freedmen's bureau
                    bill, the civil rights bill and the raising of millions of dollars in taxes for the
                    "education, clothing and protection of the African race at the expense of the white
                    taxpayers of the country." They apposed also the adoption of amendments to the constitution
                    "in a time of high political excitement and when one-third of the States are deprived of
                    the right of representation." The resolutions further declared that the southern states
                    were never out of the Union, and favored the "immediate admission of loyal representatives
                    to seats in Congress from the States lately in rebellion." The convention sympathized with
                    "all legitimate efforts of our Irish fellow citizens to liberate their native land from the
                    oppression of seven centuries."51
            
            
               
                  49 Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times, 212–13.
               
                  50
                        
                            South Bend
                        , Indiana, 
                     
                                St. Joseph
                             Valley Register, July 12, 1866.
               
                  51
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Herald, July 21, 1866.
            
            
            The scurrilous attacks on the candidates were perhaps even worse than during the war. For example,
                    Colfax's old newspaper, with which he had ended his financial connection nearly two years
                    before but which was still his mouthpiece, spoke of the Democratic candidate as the 
                        besotted Turpie, [a] travelling demijohn, and always brim full, except when his friends and
                            his credit fail to supply his bibulous appetite. [Again]: No party has a right to ask the
                            people to support for office a man who is a drunkard, a debaucher, a gambler, or a notorious
                            blasphemer of the Supreme Being.52
                  
                    The 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune, after picturing Colfax as a gentleman in every respect, said of Turpie:
                        
                        He is a low-flung, glib-tongue [d] blackguard, of brutal instincts. His harangues are
                            composed of the basest appeals to prejudice and passion. His political stock in trade
                            consists of a large and varied assortment of fish market vocabulary and coarse
                            ridicule…. He rings all the changes on the 'nigger' possible to
                            imagine. He can tell more lies about negro equality and miscegenation, than any other
                            Copperhead in Indiana, and that is saying a good deal.53
                  
                    Colfax himself was always careful not to engage in personalities, though not infrequently
                    his generalizations and implications were unfair to the opposition party as a whole.
            The war record of the Democrats and the achievements of the Union (Republican) party in putting down
                    the rebellion came up for discussion. The 
                        South Bend
                    
                    National Union (Democratic) did not like Colfax's tendency to say
                    "we put down the rebellion." It took delight in pointing out that the nearest he
                    got to the war was as an observer at Bull Run. On another occasion the National
                    Union asked: "What great achievement can he record as belonging to himself; unless it
                    was a display of his valor at the battle of Bull's [sic] Run, when he so
                    gallantly retreated in good order, astride a mule, in the direction of 
                        Washington
                    ¿"54 On the other hand the Republican press
                    again pictured Colfax as the soldier's friend and again reminded the public of his
                    donations to and efforts in behalf of the soldiers."55
            
            One unusual phase of this campaign was the attempt 
                  
                     52
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, July 26, August 2 and 16, 1866.
                  
                     53
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, August 7, 1866.
                  
                     54
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, National Union, September 22, and 29, 1866.
                  
                     55
                            
                                Valparaiso
                            , Indiana, Vidette, as quoted in the 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, St. Joseph Valley Register, July 19, 1866.
               
                     made by Colfax and other Republicans to cut into the Irish
                    vote. In August, before a large group of Fenians at a picnic in 
                        Chicago
                    , Colfax delivered an address in which he engaged in that favorite practice of
                    politicians—twisting the British lion's tail.56 Governor
                    Richard J. Oglesby of 
                        Illinois
                    , General John A. Logan and General John O'Neill, the latter under bond for his
                    part in the recently attempted invasion of 
                        Canada
                    , also took part in the program. Though this was a strange sort of meeting for Colfax to
                    address he acted the part of a veteran. He praised the Irish for their willingness "to go
                    forth to bleed, suffer, and even die to procure Irish independence." He blamed President
                    Johnson for frustrating the invasion. Obviously Colfax was attempting to turn the Irish against the
                    President and to "annex" them for the congressional cause in the pending election.
                    "Let me say one thing further," he continued: 
                        I remember that Canadian line. The recollection of the outrages that we suffered there during
                            the rebellion are burnt into my heart. In those days of ours which were without sunshine,
                            and nights without a star, I know that 
                                Canada
                             was the hiding place for traitors. There were hatched the plots against our
                            beloved land. There they plotted the sending of pestilence into our cities, that thereby our
                            people might be destroyed. Not content with this they sent their emissaries over the
                            Canadian line for the purpose of burning our towns and robbing our banks.
                    
            
            Colfax added that the Canadian authorities "never lifted their finger" to
                    administer justice to these law-breakers. He pointed out also how the House of Representatives,
                    "in which we have an overwhelming majority" passed a resolution which asked the
                    President to release the Fenian prisoners "whom he had himself taken and locked up in jail
                    on our side of the line." But it grieved him to say that the resolution had not yet been
                    acted upon by the President. "And here today stands General O'Neill with the bonds
                    of the President of the 
                        United States
                     upon him, and this because he loved Irish liberty, and struck for its
                    defense." The larger purpose of the address comes out in the following: 
                  
                     56 This was particularly true after the Civil War when 
                                England
                            's attitude toward the North was fresh in the minds of the people. But
                            even as late as 1872, Cyrus W. Field made an effort to calm the speaker's
                            antagonism to 
                                England
                             over the 
                                Alabama
                             claims. Philip B. McDonald, Saga of the Seas; the Story of Cyrus
                                W. Field…(Elmira, 
                                New York
                            , 1937), 205–09.
               
                    
                    
                        You have stood together on the battle-field. Now stand together at the ballot box. If you
                            believe in liberty in 
                                Ireland
                            , you must go to work and speak for liberty in America. The true way to aid your
                            cause is to fight as the great Union Republican organization does, for human rights and
                            impartial justice, and for the downfall of tyranny and oppression wherever it may exist.57
                  
                     The Democratic 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Times thought this Fenian picnic was unique, 
                        "inasmuch as it was not so much a picnic as it was a political gathering, and it was
                            an unusual political gathering, inasmuch as it was an attempt at the conversion of a noble
                            assemblage from old-established forms of political belief to political tenets long held in
                                abhorrence."58
                  
                    
            
            Other evidences of Colfax's friendliness to the Irish were also played up in the campaign.
                    The Register published a letter written by the speaker in February, 1864, to show
                    that his interest in their cause was not new. He had contributed twenty dollars to their cause at
                    that time. A letter by William R. Roberts, president of the Fenian Brotherhood of 
                        New York
                     City, was likewise published. Roberts thanked the speaker for his friendliness and for
                    his aid in getting Fenian prisoners released from jail and prosecution.59 Colfax
                    wrote to friend Heaton: "I am satisfied it will pay to have my Fenian speech at 
                        Chicago
                     printed and sent through the District." He wanted 1,000 copies printed on
                    sheets which were to contain also the speech of General O'Neill. The sheets were to be
                    headed: "Speeches of Hon. Schuyler Colfax and Gen. J. O'Neill
                    (who whipped the Queen's Own in 
                        Canada
                    )."60
            
            As was to be expected Colfax throughout the campaign vigorously defended the work of Congress and
                    blamed the break with the President on the alleged fact that he had changed his position since 1864.
                    God Almighty, he asserted in a speech in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was the author of the civil rights bill inasmuch as He is no respector of persons. He
                    condemned the haste of Democrats in scenting "in the diabolical measure [Fourteenth
                    Amendment] the sure odor 
                  
                     57
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, August 23, 1866.
                  
                     58
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Times, August 16, 1866.
                  
                     59
                     
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, August 16 and September 6, 1866.
                  
                     60 Colfax to "Squire" Heaton, August 28, 1866,
                            Colfax MSS., Northern Indiana Historical Museum.
               
                     of negro suffrage." Governor Morton, who had
                    introduced Colfax to his 
                        Indianapolis
                     audience, proposed at the close of the speech three cheers for the speaker,
                    "which were given with a will." Perhaps the governor remembered that Colfax had
                    refused to become a candidate for the office of senator, a post which he himself was angling for and
                    was shortly to receive!61
            
            Despite Republican explanations that the first clause of the Fourteenth Amendment did not mean the
                    imposition of Negro suffrage, the Democrats, with good reason, were suspicious, Officially the
                    Republican party steered clear of the issue in this campaign but some of the radicals were already
                    taking that advanced position. The Register declared that Negro suffrage was not
                    an issue in the campaign any more than was infant baptism or transubstantiation. It added:
                    "We will state as a fact, however, that Mr. Colfax is not in favor of Negro suffrage in
                    this State, and has repeatedly and publicly so declared himself."62 It
                    is significant that this statement is limited to stating the congressman's views on the
                    suffrage in Indiana.
            Colfax characterized this campaign as "the bitterest fight ever known" in his
                        district.63 Though he said in September the prospects looked good, he left
                    no stone unturned in order to win. Generals John Logan, Carl Shurz and James A. Garfield were asked
                    to come to the district to speak.64 To Schurz, Colfax wrote: 
                        The Dem. themes are tariff, taxes & negro. You know our weak points in Inda. But we
                            are bringing up public opinion as we fight them, though we are scarcely up to the highest
                            point yet—that is all of our people…. The contest in Dist. &
                            State is bitter, the enemy contesting every inch.65
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     61
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, August 8, 1866.
                  
                     62
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, September 27, 1866; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, August 25, 1866; 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, National Union, September 8, 29, and October 6,
                            1866.
                  
                     63 Colfax to Mrs. Mary Ames, October 14, 1866, Mary Clemmer MSS.,
                            Hayes Memorial Library, 
                                Fremont
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            .
                  
                     64 Colfax to Heaton, September 1, 1866, Colfax MSS., Northern Indiana
                            Historical Museum; Colfax to James A. Garfield, August 13, 1866, Garfield MSS., Library of
                            Congress.
                  
                     65 Colfax to Carl Schurz, September 16, 1866, Schurz MSS., Library of
                            Congress. With reference apparently to some misunderstanding he had with Schurz, Colfax
                            wrote: "A rule of my life is to engrave friendship in the granite & write
                            differences in the sand."
               
                     The Democrats brought into the district such heavyweights as
                    Senator Hendricks, Senator James R. Doolittle, Daniel W. Voorhees and General James B. Steedman. The
                    hard-fought contest was also accompanied by the usual charges and countercharges of fraudulent
                    colonizing and voting.66
            
            One campaign device which Republicans frequently used after the war was that of appealing to the
                    soldier vote. When the Grand Army of the Republic was organized an attempt was made to have the
                    organization do yeoman service for the Republican party. Colfax was not averse to this as is shown
                    in the following letter: 
                        Our State Cent. Com are anxious to have the Army of the Republic organized at once in every
                            Co. It has done great good in 
                                Ills
                            ., Pa., & in one Ind Dist as I know having just been there. They wish
                            some energetic, discreet, popular soldier, willing to work for the cause & endorsed
                            by the Co. Committee, to come to the State House, where Gen Foster will give him the work to
                            take home.67
                  
                    
            
            The Republicans attempted not only to show that all soldiers ought to vote their ticket but that all
                    Christians ought to do likewise. Many of them seemed to think that God was on their side only. When
                    some opponents sarcastically called the Republicans the "God and Morality" party
                    the Register accepted the sneer. It retorted that no man can truthfully accuse the
                    "so [-] called Democracy of paying any deference to God or his moral laws."68
            
            With such a spirit of self-confidence, not to say self-righteousness, it is not surprising that the
                        Register should have declared: 
                        We lived in a radical age—an age when wrongs are being righted, and when success
                            is the reward of bold speech and brave action. The experience of the last thirty years has
                            demonstrated that there is a mighty power in true principles, which is bound to render them
                            successful.
                    
                    
                  
                     66
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Times, October 2, 1866; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, October 12, 1866; Colfax to Thomas Jenckes, September 29, 1866,
                            Rider Collection, 
                                Brown
                             University Library.
                  
                     67 Colfax to — August 20, 1866, Colfax MSS., 
                                Chicago
                            
                  
                  Historical Society Library.
                  
                     68 The 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, October 18, 1866, continued its moralizing with the
                            comparison of a Democratic with a Republican parade in 
                                South Bend
                            . In the Democratic parade, it said, boys sang profane doggerel
                            "something like this: 
                                In Eighteen Hundred Sixty-Six
                                Colfax is in a hell of a fix."
                             The Republican parade, however, was high-toned, dignified and moral. The paraders
                            sang the "Battle Cry of Freedom." "These two
                        incidents,"
               
                     It thought that the history of John Quincy Adams, Joshua R.
                    Giddings, Elijah P. Lovejoy, Charles Sumner, George W. Julian, "or our own Colfax"
                    proved that "a straightforward, bold course was the road to success. "69
            
            Whatever the cause, Colfax was again victorious. His majority was 2,148. At the close of his last
                    joint discussion with Turpie, Colfax stated to his rival that he did not know what the result might
                    be but one thing he knew certainly—he would never make another race for Congress. The
                    promise was kept. His next battle was to be in a larger field.70
            
            After the contest in Indiana was over, Colfax, almost worn out by his own canvass, aided the cause in 
                        Illinois
                    , 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and 
                        Michigan
                    . Race riots at 
                        Memphis
                     and 
                        New Orleans
                     during the summer played into the hands of the radicals. The President's
                    famous "swing around the circle" also probably netted more votes for the radicals
                    than for the moderates. Thus the outcome in November—a sweeping victory for the opponents
                    of the President—was not unexpected.71
            
            
               continued the Register, "afford fitting types of the two parties
                        arrayed against each other in this country—the former of that party which scoffingly
                        terms ours the 'God and Morality' party, and the latter, of the party which
                        blazons upon its banner the grand old principles of the founders of the Republic, and with faith
                        in God, and the broadest of Christain [sic] philanthropy seeks to mould ours
                        into a nation which shall deserve the smiles of the Almighty. Let any thoughtful, patriotic
                            Christian man or woman contrast the ideas and principles shadowed forth in these rival
                            exhibitions of the two parties, and then ask, which ought to prevail and shape the destiny
                            of this heaven favored land? From which of these types of boys are to come the future
                            legislators and governors of this country, and from which the inmates of its penitentiaries
                            and prisons? No wonder there are so few professing Christians among the falsely so-called
                            Democracy.
                        We trust in God that the Republican party is the 'Higher Law' party, and
                            the time is far distant when it shall cease to acknowledge the sacred and binding force of
                            the principles which lie at the foundation of both natural and revealed religion. May it
                            never cease to press home to the hearts and consciences of all its friends the question,
                            'Is this law right? Is it just?' rather than, 'Is it
                            Constitutional?' and if any law, or custom, or regulation, violates those eternal
                            principles which emanated from the mind of God, let not only such law be repealed, but the
                            Constitution which sanctions it be changed. Let us be proud not only to wear, but to deserve
                            the title derisively given us by our enemies, of the 'God and Morality
                            party.' "
               
               
                  69
                  Ibid., May 10, 1866.
               
                  70
                        
                            South Bend
                        , Indiana, National Union, November 3, 1866; Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times, 212.
               
                  71
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, October 22, 1866; Colfax to Thomas Jenckes, September 29, 1866,
                        Rider Collection, 
                            Brown
                         University Library. For a good discussion of the campaign see Howard K. Beale, The Critical Year: A Study of Andrew Johnson and Reconstruction (
                            New York
                        , 1930).
            
            
            Colfax was elected vice-president in 1868 and his name was frequently used in connection with the
                    highest office in the land. In 1872, however, for various reasons72 he was not
                    renominated and in March, 1873, he retired from office under the cloud of the Credit Mobilier
                    scandal. Turpie on the other hand served a number of years thereafter in public office, including
                    two terms in the 
                        United States
                     Senate, 1887–1899.
            Many years after the smoke of the political battles of Colfax and Turpie had cleared away, Turpie,
                    while reminiscing in the mellow years of his old age, set down in his Sketches of My
                        Own Times interesting comments on the men with whom he had to deal. Among his interesting
                    comments on his political rival of the 1860's is the following: 
                        In the history of current American politics, that of his own age and of the anti-slavery
                            movement in this country in its whole development, he was the best informed man of his time,
                            either in or out of Congress. Herein he had exact knowledge of date, place, person, every
                            particular, wonderfully at his command. He was the readiest debater I ever met, very quick
                            in retort and repartee.73
                  
                    
            
            As the impartial student looks back over these Colfax-Turpie campaigns with the perspective of the
                    intervening years he can see that neither person and neither political party had a monopoly on the
                    truth. Though some questioned his patriotism during the Civil War, it can be seen today that Turpie
                    and most of his fellow Democrats were also American patriots who had honest differences with the
                    party in power as to methods of procedure. As regards the tragedies of the Reconstruction period,
                    history has adjudged the position of Turpie more nearly right than that of Colfax.
            
               
                  72 See Willard H. Smith, The Political Career of Schuyler Colfax to His
                        Election as Vice-President in 1868 (Unpublished thesis, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, June, 1939), 357–60.
               
                  73 Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times,
                    219–20.
            
         
         
         
            A Real Pioneer
            LEWIS B. EWBANK
            
            On the irregular floor of ancient ash boards in a house built of native stone gathered from the
                    fields surrounding it in southeastern Indiana stands my grandfather's clock. In that room
                    and another a few feet away across the hall it has stood for more than a hundred years. Before the
                    stone house was built it stood many years in a double log house with a similar hall through the
                    middle in almost the same place1
            
            My grandfather was seventy years old when I was born.2 He then had lived in the
                    stone house and tended the clock as owner since 1831. He had wound it every night by lifting the
                    weights and pulling the cords through its intricate machinery. He had braided strands of flaxen cord
                    from time to time to replace the fifteen feet or more of weight cord. He had threaded this cord back
                    and forth from its "works" to a heavy weight that supplied its motive power, and
                    thence to the striking apparatus and back to a lighter weight. Occasionally he had oiled it. And
                    every year or so he had taken the clock from its case, removed the long flaxen cord and given the
                    brass machinery a thorough cleaning. If repairs were needed, he made them, as his father in early
                    pioneer days had done before him. This went on, while I watched him from time to time, through my,
                    childhood and early youth until his death at the ripe age of eighty-five. Thus he no doubt had
                    watched his father do in a much longer period before he inherited the clock and house. Finally he
                    rested with his parents beside the small stone chapel that when a bridegroom sixty years earlier he
                    had helped his father build in the western wilderness.
            The clock passed with the house to his son (my father) who had been born there, where long afterwards
                    he died.3
            
            
               
                  1 The Ewbank homestead is in a creek valley west of Road 56 and below the
                        level of the road, about three-quarters of a mile north of the Guilford Consolidated Schoolhouse
                        and the town of Guilford, which is not on the highway. It is approximately seven miles northwest
                        of 
                            Lawrenceburg
                         in Section 17, Township 6, North Range 1 West of the First Principal Meridian (the
                        state line).
               
                  2 The grandfather, John Ewbank, was born March 26, 1795, and died
                        September 14, 1880.
               
                  3 John W. Ewbank, the father, was born July 27, 1833, and died March 11,
                        1911.
            
            
            Now the owner of both clock and house is that son's youngest child, of the fourth
                        generation.4 He was a child when his father, the third in line, inherited
                    them threescore years ago. Unfortunately the direct succession bids fair to be broken now, for the
                    present owner is a bachelor, and, though old enough to have had children, grandchildren, and
                    great-grandchildren, there are none of my own to take up the tasks that I must soon lay down.
            Like the clock in the song, this great-grandfather's clock is more than seven feet tall. But
                    so far as I know, it-mever celebrated the arrival of a bride at its owner's home; and in
                    far more than a century it has kept up its ceaseless ticking, while one after another its owners in
                    succession have been carried away to the churchyard, followed or preceded by their wives and
                    numerous children.
            This clock was one of the first things I remember noticing. Its pendulum hangs on a wire more than
                    three feet long, so that it swings substantially once each second, with a resulting tick of grave
                    deliberation. In childhood I often listened to its voice as to someone speaking. Returning recently
                    to visit the clock, it seemed the ceaseless ticking was telling a story. I shall tell the story as I
                    know it from what I have seen and heard, and 'as the clock might tell it if it could speak.
            The first owner, John Ewbank, Sr.,5 as aldest son, inherited from his parents in
                    Yorkshire, 
                        England
                    , a tall clock. It was then very old and known as the family clock. Being a bachelor of
                    forty years, he married a young wife and took the clock to his new home. He proceeded in little more
                    than a dozen years to acquire a family of ten children. Even before the tenth was born business
                    reverses at home and the beckoning promise of a new country in the New World across the sea drew him
                    to America. Lacking means to bring the family with him, he left them to the care of his brother,
                    Edward, and came alone. Here he engaged in buying cattle for the 
                        New York
                     market. No railroads or canals then existed in America and there were few roads that
                    were more than 
                  
                     4 Louis B. Ewbank, the author of this paper, was born September 5,
                            1864.
                  
                     5 This was the great-grandfather who was born in 1751 or 1752 and who
                            died February 12, 1832. The gravestone states that he died in the "81st year of his
                            age," but family tradition has passed down the date of 1752 as the year of his
                            birth.
               
                     bridle paths even in the seaboard states. So all his purchases
                    were driven to market on the hoof, with herdsmen for escort.
            At that time 
                        New York
                     City was a country town on the lower end of Manhattan Island. It had a scattered
                    population (78,000) about one-fifth of what 
                        Indianapolis
                     now has (387,000). Indeed, the whole state of 
                        New York
                     had (780,000) less than twice as many inhabitants as now live in 
                        Marion
                     County, Indiana (461,000). 
                        New Jersey
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , 
                        Maryland
                    , and 
                        Virginia
                     were almost as thinly peopled. But many cattle were pastured in the wilderness, and
                    there were markets beyond the sea, so business prospered. After he had been here two years, he sent
                    for his wife and children. To prepare ten children of ages ranging from one to fourteen years for
                    spending three months between the decks of a small ship which would pitch and toss with every wave,
                    and at the same time to pack the indispensable household goods for such a voyage and provide food
                    for the family while crossing, was no light task.
            That was thirty years before the first steamship crossed the ocean. It was twice as long before the
                    first Atlantic cable was laid. The ship they crossed in, like most ships of that time, was about 150
                    feet long and of a few hundred tons burden. There were no such monsters, 1,000 feet long of 40,000
                    tons burden, as have since been constructed. The inherited clock with its long wooden case was a
                    real problem. The brother, Edward, offered to exchange for it a new brass clock, without any case,
                    which he bought from the manufacturer ready packed in a cubical box of the smallest possible
                    dimensions. As these new "works" cost Edward ten pounds, the equivalent of
                    —50, when only the skilled mechanics received as much as —1 per day, while the
                    ancient family clock had little in its favor but sentiment, the offer was gladly accepted. The new
                    clock works were loaded on shipboard with a few household goods, the ten small children and their
                    mother, their own bedding and food enough for the voyage. This might by rare good luck be made in
                    four weeks but could (as it did) consume three months, depending upon the wind and weather and ocean
                    currents encountered. None of these had then been charted or studied until a generation later.
            To this point the clock's knowledge, like my own, is secondhand. It can only know what
                    happened then by having  heard about it from John Ewbank, Sr.,
                    and from his wife and numerous children; more especially from the son John, Jr., with whom it
                    afterward spent the last fifty years of his life, including those when he lived largely in the past.
            When it arrived on board the little ship, and with the other family possessions was stowed away in
                    the diminutive cabin between decks, the clock's opportunities were increased. It then had
                    time to look about, to listen and to gain information at first hand, as it has had ever since. If
                    only it could, it might tell much of real interest about the voyage, as well as the lives, loves,
                    toils, and homely adventures of the six or seven generations that it has watched pass by. For
                    great-grandchildren of its first owner now have great-grandchildren of their own.
            Scarcely were the mother and her ten children snugly ensconced in the few square feet allotted to
                    them of a small cabin built into a lower deck, when she became so violently ill she could only lie
                    still and be waited on by the children. In giving each of the larger ones a separate task, care of
                    the year-old baby was assigned to twelve-year-old John, the future owner of the clock. A brother
                    fourteen years old, another eleven, and one nine with his twin sister, and another sister almost
                    eight did what family work was done, and cared for another little sister and two still smaller
                    brothers, besides the baby.
            The mother continued to be violently ill whenever she ventured to leave her couch, so she was out of
                    the picture except as just another to be fed and cared for as an invalid. Fortunately all the
                    children were well and kept well all the way across the ocean. On clear days they would watch the
                    waves as their ship plowed through them, or perhaps see a school of dolphins at play, or the sea
                    birds flying over or perching in the ship's rigging or plunging into the water. In storms
                    they had to keep below with the portholes closed and nothing to see but the timbers of the ship,
                    their own small stock of household goods and similar possessions of their fellow passengers.
                    Refrigerators had not been invented, and even if they had been, would not have been carried on such
                    a small vessel. Ice in midsummer was not to be thought of. Canned fruits and vegetables were then
                    unknown on shipboard. After the first few days out of port, they settled down to a steady diet of
                    ship's biscuits, a kind of cracker,  with salted fish,
                    or even salted meat on special occasions, and a few dried vegetables like beans and onions. A
                    mouthful or two of lukewarm water quenched their thirst. Having food, drink, clothing, and shelter,
                    the children played and romped day after day and week after week, worrying little about what they
                    did not have. The younger children, and especially the smallest boy, Martin, three years old, were
                    much petted by the sailors. They carried him to explore every part of the little ship that to him
                    seemed so huge.
            Sometimes, and especially on Sundays, if their mother felt able to talk, the children would listen to
                    stories about the father who had gone away to far-off America two years earlier, before Rebecca was
                    born. Benjamin and Martin had been too small to remember him, and even Hannah, now six years old,
                    remembered only that somebody went away when she was too young to care very much about it. But all
                    were greatly interested now.
            These stories, with tales from the Bible, were about all in the way of diversion that was permitted
                    the children on Sundays. For this family, and especially the mother, were Methodists after the
                    strict measure of John Wesley, whose personal disciple she had been in 
                        England
                    . One of the strongest articles of their faith was strict observance of the Sabbath, as
                    they called Sunday. For a child to play or sing or even laugh that day in the intervals between the
                    prayers and sermons that were hours long was strongly disapproved. On week days, however, each child
                    was free to play when his little tasks were done. Those too small for tasks might find entertainment
                    where they could, with only time out for eating and sleeping. When storms kept them between the
                    decks with the portholes closed and the big waves turned one end of the ship and then the other
                    toward the sky, a game could be played on the sloping floor of their small cabin. The little fellows
                    would slide across the floor as the ship tossed high on a wave, and turning, would slide back as it
                    pitched into the trough of the sea. Or on sunny days they would climb to the upper deck and visit
                    the steersman or the sailmakers, who never tired of hearing baby voices lisp the broad dialect of
                    Yorkshire.
            A hundred years of public schools and fifty of studying dictionaries have brought our common speech
                    to a uniformity not dreamed of when adjoining townships on either side of a  river or range of hills in Britain used entirely different names for
                    common implements of agriculture or household use. Saxon and Briton or Dane and 
                        Norman
                     dwelling side by side for centuries had not achieved a wholly common speech.
            Wherever one is and in whatever circumstances, time moves on. Even packing the clock in a small
                    square box did not change this. One day thirteen weeks after it left 
                        England
                    , this small boat with the large family aboard sailed into 
                        New York
                     Harbor and up to a wharf at the Battery. That great metropolis was then a town of
                    diminutive houses and unpaved streets. It was just beginning to bring water by wooden pipes from the
                    vicinity of what is now Fortieth Street to the more densely peopled lower end of Manhattan Island.
                    The rest of the city was still supplied by wells. The first successful steamboat in the world had
                    just begun operating on the Hudson between 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Albany
                    , and the boy John soon managed to go aboard it, though only to look around.
            The family lived across the North River in 
                        New Jersey
                    , presumably at the Palisades or other high grounds, for I never heard any complaint
                    about the mosquitoes. John, the twelve-year-old boy-nurse, spent most of his time working in the
                    city of 
                        New York
                    . It was a place of cottages and two-story houses built of wood surrounded by ample
                    yards and gardens, but far older then than 
                        Indianapolis
                     is now, and looking down with scorn on mere countryfolk. John told in later life of
                    once seeing a lady with a sidesaddle ride a horse up 
                        Broadway
                    , which he said was so unusual that clerks, employers, and customers swarmed to the
                    doors and windows as she passed; though not many miles away, beyond the roads that led down to the
                    seashore and river landings, almost the only choice the people then had in traveling was to go on
                    horseback or on foot.
            In the 
                        New Jersey
                     home the clock was taken out of its packing case and given a new upright wooden case of
                    wild cherry, that it still wears. During the next four years, it had nothing to do but tell the
                    minutes by pointing with one hand, the hours by pointing with the other, and by striking its bell
                    every sixty minutes, and telling the days of each month by the motion of a wheel on its face. The
                    children grew as other children have grown, went to school, and having learned to read, studied
                    about pounds, shillings, and pence, then still currently used in 
                        New Jersey
                     and 
                        New York
                    . Their father 
                    
                  
                            The Grandfather's Clock
                        
                had also to learn the use of the new money called dollars, dimes, and cents, as he bought
                    and sold cattle for every kind of money to be found in a seaport town, continuing to prosper in
                    spite of all.
            Tales were in circulation concerning the great Northwest Territory. It was said that lands had been
                    opened for settlement at places along the 
                        Ohio
                     River which could be bought from the 
                        United States
                     for only two dollars an acre, payable in four annual installments. After the family and
                    the clock had been for four years near the North River, as the Hudson River was usually called,
                    their parents resolved to move to the 
                        Ohio
                     River country. It was over fifty years since General Braddock's ill-fated
                    expedition against Fort Duquesne had opened a road from Cumberland across the mountains, which is
                    now 
                        United States
                     Highway 40. It was nearly as long since the army of General Forbes had cut the trees
                    and brush from a roadway across the mountains on the present 
                    route of 
                        United States
                     Highway 30 from 
                        Bedford
                     to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . While these were little more than pack horse trails, neither graded nor paved, a
                    steady and rapidly increasing stream of travel was pouring west over them. Almost the universal
                    practice for emigrants from the northern seaboard was to travel by land across the mountains to some
                    point on the Conemaugh or Youghiogheny rivers, or some other of the headwaters of the 
                        Ohio
                     large enough to carry a flatboat downstream, and from there to drift with the current
                    to the chosen destination. When the surface of the ground was dry, horses or oxen could travel ten
                    or twelve miles in a day. This left time for preparing and eating a breakfast cooked over an open
                    fire of logs, and for breaking camp; and, when the lengthening shadows in the later afternoon gave
                    warning, to camp again and prepare supper over other log fires in the same way. When it rained,
                    however, the wagon wheels would sink into the mud until the oxen and horses could go no farther.
                    Then there was nothing to do but to camp and wait for better weather, when the ground should become
                    dry enough that the wagon wheels could be dug out and the journey resumed.
            Little did that father and mother dream, while driving a few miles a day through the soft mud, and
                    sleeping in or beneath their wagons or on the bare ground under the trees, that fifty years later
                    their sons and daughters might ride at fifty miles an hour over substantially the same route on
                    railroad trains guided by telegraph messages; or that after another fifty years their grandchildren
                    could ride half that fast over stone turnpikes in gasoline buggies through a land of cities, towns,
                    villages, and farms in instant communication by telephone; or that after a few more years the
                    great-grandchildren and their sons and grandsons might drive in power-propelled carriages at
                    imperceptible grades on cement surfaced highways and through tunnels under the higher mountain
                    ranges instead of over them, at seventy miles an hour or even faster; or, if they preferred, might
                    float through the air high above the tops of the mountains, from 
                        New York
                     City to 
                        Cincinnati
                     or 
                        Indianapolis
                     between a late breakfast and an early lunch.
            It does not appear that any such dreams disturbed the small children who played and ran and shouted
                    until they were tired and then climbed into the wagons to ride. The  parents and older children were kept too busy with camping and breaking
                    camp, preparing food, bringing firewood, cutting trees and underbrush that blocked the road,
                    harnessing horses and putting yokes on oxen, driving the wagons and unyoking the oxen, unharnessing
                    the horses and finding feed and water for both, to waste a thought on what changes the future might
                    bring, or on what their great-grandchildren and more remote descendants might do.
            The clock, having been placed in one of the wagons where it lay on its back with its face towards the
                    sky, had stopped. It was unloaded in the late summer near the bank of a shallow creek more than a
                    thousand miles from where they started, as measured by the route they had come.
            After entering the mountains, distance had to be sacrificed to elevation, and the wagons followed the
                    windings of streams day after day, forced to be content when half a day's travel around a
                    loop in the course of such a stream would carry them even a little nearer their destination, as
                    measured by the course of an airplane or even by the grades and cuts and tunnels which have since
                    been made.
            In the mountains there were long slopes so steep that the travelers had to "double
                    teams" in climbing them. They would leave part of the wagons and some of the family beside
                    the road, while all the horses and oxen tugged at a long chain drawing another wagon. Occasionally a
                    mountain was found so steep that they had to join their teams with the cattle of other emigrants to
                    get up at all. When at last the summit of a pass over the highest ridge of the Alleghenies was
                    reached, and far below lay the valley of the next river in a well defined channel enclosed by banks
                    on the western slope, another problem presented itself. How could wagons that had been tugged up so
                    high by the united efforts of several teams of horses and oxen be taken down again without
                    overwhelming the animals and rolling over or past them to certain destruction? These adventurers did
                    as others had done and continued to do until tracks for wagons at sloping grades were afterward dug
                    along the steep mountain sides from top to bottom. Felling a tree or finding part of one already cut
                    down by somebody else from which a log cculd be obtained, they chopped off the limbs several inches
                    from the log, which was then fastened behind a wagon as a drag or brake, plowing into the earth deep
                    enough that force  was required to pull the wagon with its drag
                    down the face of the mountain. Little regard was paid to roads in descending, but each driver dodged
                    between the trees as he could, and a helper followed with an axe to cut away any tree or bush that
                    might block progress of the wagon and its log brake.
            Not many days after they reached the foot of the mountains on the western side, they came to a river
                    large enough to carry flatboats. It was the Conemaugh that flows to the Allegheny and down it to the 
                        Ohio
                    . Here they found many travelers encamped, waiting for boats to float them down the
                    river. Some were trying to build their own boats. Many were awaiting the completion of boats
                    contracted for. Not a few were working for the boat builders while they tried to accumulate enough
                    money to buy or build for themselves. Flatboats already completed, however, could be purchased by
                    anybody with ready money, and our clock was soon on its way down the little river, together with its
                    owner and his numerous family, his horses and oxen, wagons, and all his other worldly goods.
            Outboard motors had not been invented. The first steamboat to go down the 
                        Ohio
                     River was still in a boatyard at 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , half-completed. A loaded flatboat was too large and heavy for oars to be of much use
                    except to keep its bow headed downstream, and to guide it into the current or over to a landing on
                    the shore. Such boats floated with the waters of the stream. Sometimes they scarcely moved where the
                    current ran slowly. Again they speeded at four or five miles an hour around the long bends of the
                    river where the current was that swift. The distance traveled by water was much
                    greater—fully twice as great—as the distance by land in a direct line.
            Floating from dawn to dark each day, into the Allegheny River and from it down the 
                        Ohio
                    , they tied to a tree on the bank each night. There was no channel save what the river
                    had made for itself, and no lights were on the shore to mark out the way. Books had been published
                    to guide flatboats, with maps which assumed to mark every sandbar and jutting rock or partly
                    submerged snag, and to tell just where the deepest channel would be found, throughout the length of
                    the river. These maps divided the river into short sections, and assumed to mark everything in it.
                    But they had to be interpreted, and collisions with other boats 
                    running faster or slower, or tied to the bank, or casting loose from it had to be avoided. With no
                    guide but their books and their eyes, each flatboat man ventured to pilot his own boat through
                    hundreds of miles of strange waters. As the river was constantly changing—much faster
                    than the guide books did—every statement in them was under suspicion. Almost any day a
                    tree undermined by the current might crash to the water and either lodge there as a new snag, or
                    float away to lodge at some other place. Wherever it lodged it might create not only one new
                    obstruction in the water, or many of of them, perhaps just below the surface, but might also dam up
                    the current and send it to a different channel. New sandbars could form overnight below the mouth of
                    a tributary stream after a hard rain. Piloting a flatboat called for daylight, sharp sight and
                    ceaseless vigilance.
            Ordinarily they floated thirty miles or more in a day, so that having driven three weeks through the
                    wilderness to the western side of the mountains, almost as much longer was consumed in floating down
                    a succession of rivers before they tied up at a little group of log huts where 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     now stands. Venturesome descendants without the fear of traffic laws before their eyes
                    have driven the entire distance over automobile highways that now run from 
                        New York
                     to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     in one long summer day plus part of the night.
            Pushing back from the river along the valley of what was beginning to be called Tanner's
                    Creek, named for a trader whose two boys had been carried away by Indians twenty years before, the
                    clock's escort soon found two adjoining half-sections of land that suited them. These lay
                    across the valley on either side of the creek, forming together a square mile, just beyond the home
                    of an earlier settler who had gone deepest into the woods in that direction. A deserted
                    squatter's cabin, such as hunters and trappers had built for temporary shelter at many
                    places in the western woods, was near the north end of these half-sections on the bank of the creek.
                    Here the family spent the pleasant days of late summer and early autumn, when the clock was unpacked
                    and set up on the cabin floor.
            Another site half a mile farther down the creek, near the center of this embryo farm which reached to
                    the top of the ridge on each side of the creek, was chosen for a home.  The work of cutting logs to build a house and barn, and the clearing of
                    ground for a garden went forward in earnest. The four older boys were now aged from thirteen to
                    eighteen years, respectively, and the oldest girl, twin sister of the thirteen-year-old boy, passed
                    for a young lady. More than one of the girls who had come to the Northwest Territory in the
                    preceding twenty years, and some even as late as twenty years afterward, were married by the time
                    they were thirteen, though this girl waited another five years to marry. After being married, the
                    very young folks, like their elders, would begin housekeeping in a pen of logs, with a roof of
                    clapboards or "shakes," held in place by weight-poles laid across them. This
                    provided shelter whenever needed. At other times, however, domestic life, with its cooking, dining,
                    laundry work, soapmaking, grinding corn or sweet acorns for bread, and many other household
                    activities, was conducted under the trees in the open air.
            An intimation of what was then deemed necessary to comfortable home life in the woods is revealed in
                    a law that had been enacted in Indiana Territory in the year (1810) before they arrived. Besides
                    "necessary" books of the professional man and tools of the mechanic, few of whom
                    ventured into the deep woods, a debtor could hold as against an execution on a judgment in favor of
                    his creditors, "one milch cow and calf, one sow, one bed, bedstead and bed clothing, one
                    pot, one kettle, one dutch oven, one frying pan, and one axe."6
            
            The clock's companions, recently from Europe and the Atlantic seaboard, were not content
                    with bare necessities. Not satisfied with benches such as served for furniture in many frontier
                    cabins, they had chairs made by an English cabinetmaker who arrived in the settlement, some of which
                    are still in use at the residence. They built two structures of logs, each about sixteen by twenty
                    feet in size, standing eight or ten feet apart, and having provided for each a floor of split logs
                    or "puncheons" smoothed with an adze, near the ground and a like floor seven or
                    eight feet higher, they carried the logwalls up so as to form a loft that enclosed this second floor
                    above each of the lower rooms. Then they 
                  
                     6
                            Acts of Assembly of the Indiana Territory, 1810 (
                                Vincennes
                            , 1810), ch. xxv, as reprinted in The Laws of Indiana Territory,
                                1809–1816, edited by Louis B. Ewbank and Dorothy Riker, Indiana Historical Collections, XX (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1934), 133.
               
                     boarded up the space between the log structures to make a
                    hallway both above and below. The lower hallway had doors at front and back of heavy oak planks
                    laboriously sawed out by hand. With a stone chimney and fireplace at that end of each room farthest
                    from the hallway, wide enough to hold firewood four feet long, they had a house ample for the family
                    of twelve. Together with a log summer-kitchen and the log barn and giant forest trees outside, it
                    was even capable of expansion to meet the extreme demands of backwoods hospitality. There were no
                    stoves until many years later, and all the cooking was done at open fires and on beds of coals in
                    the big fireplaces.
            Besides being the family home for twenty years this log building for half that time served also as a
                    chapel where the circuit rider preached when he came, and especially every Sunday when the
                    clock's master, as class-leader in the old Methodist sense, gathered his family and a few
                    neighbors together for inquiry, instruction, exhortation, admonition, and encouragement. Every month
                    or so, on whatever day of the week the circuit rider might appear, ail of the ten children would go
                    in different directions through the woods to notify neighbors whose children, in turn, would pass
                    the word on to others. "Early candle lighting" was the time usually fixed for
                    evening gatherings before watches were generally carried. At that witching hour, as they interpreted
                    it, the Methodist families from two or three miles away and occasional neighbors would gather to
                    hear a sermon. Sometimes Baptists would join in their devotions but not often, for denominational
                    lines were closely drawn. Those who were neither Methodists nor Baptists usually fiddled, danced,
                    and played cards, and were considered by the church people as reprobates.
            If he came at the end of the week and remained till Sunday, the circuit rider and any of the
                    congregation, up to fifty or so, would remain overnight. These would include old or crippled guests
                    to whom a walk of a mile or two or three and back would cause hardship. All the guests would sleep
                    as they could, the women in the house. Such men as could not find a place somewhere on the floor
                    inside the house would go to the barn or out under the trees. All would breakfast next morning on
                    such homely fare as the backwoods afforded. Any overflow crowd would be sent to  other cabins within a few miles from which they would return for
                    "morning class" by six or seven the next day. More than once a bishop of their
                    church honored the home of these pioneers by preaching in front of the great stone fireplace.
            The Sunday activities were not all inside the house, nor were all devotional in a religious sense. A
                    detached room that served as a summer kitchen, together with the wide outdoors often used as a
                    dining room, was also the scene of earnest devotion of a different kind. There the daughters and
                    their young friends, like Martha, were "cumbered with much serving," while their
                    elders "sat at the Master's feet and heard His word." For the religious
                    meetings were punctuated by calls to dinner long before the sun was at meridian, and to supper long
                    before darkness fell. Those girls and young matrons were expected to bake and boil and fry and serve
                    such quantities of food as would give a modern housewife heart failure just to think of it.
            Always the circuit rider, the bishop, if one were present, or the presiding elder, as the district
                    superintendent was then called, and the local preachers who, after riding the circuit for a few
                    years, had married and settled down to cultivate farms and rear families, and such old or infirm
                    persons or visitors from a distance as could not well come afoot, brought horses with them. These
                    were the charge of the young men and boys of the family and their companions, who preferred the open
                    air with light work to devotional exercises inside the house. One of these local preachers rode a
                    bay mare that when tied up would lean back on her bridle and break loose. Then she would roam about
                    looking for choice food or pasture, and cause the boys much trouble to catch her again. To insure
                    security, they finally put one end of a log chain around her neck and fastened the other to a young
                    elm tree that grew on the creek bank. The little mare pulled back and when nothing broke she pulled
                    harder until she threw herself down the creek bank and hung by the neck from the bending tree. The
                    boys had not meant to kill the preacher's mount and were much alarmed, but enough of them
                    soon gathered to lift the mare so that the chain was unhooked, after which she lay at the foot of
                    the bank both sadder and wiser than before.
            For years afterward, her owner boasted that while his riding mare had troubled him much by breaking
                    her bridle,  she never did so when he rode her to church
                    meetings at Brother Ewbank's home. Neither the boys nor the clock told of this adventure
                    until the local preachers, the circuit rider, and the parents had all passed to their long home, and
                    the grown-up boys had ceased to fear discipline, parental, or ecclesiastical. The elm tree lived and
                    thrived for nearly a century afterward, until its stump was five feet across and its branches
                    sheltered almost a fourth of an acre of ground. Then it was killed by minute insects working under
                    the bark. In the meantime, the creek had cut itself a new and deeper channel a hundred yards away,
                    and had filled its old channel and almost obliterated the high bank.
            The new home was at the edge of a former "deadening," an acre or two in extent.
                    Somebody, fifteen or twenty years before, to judge from the size of the second-growth saplings, had
                    killed the large trees and cut down or dug out enough of the undergrowth to make a small field. The
                    old trees had probably been burned down, as the few remaining stumps and snags were blackened and
                    charred. A patch in which to plant a little corn and a few vegetables between the seasons for
                    trapping furbearing animals might be prepared with less labor by fire than with axes and grubbing
                    hoes. It was then fifteen years since the wilderness along the 
                        Ohio
                     River for a few miles west of the Great Miami had been surrendered by the Indians for
                    settlement by white men. Hunters and trappers had swarmed over it, intent on killing game and
                    selling furs, without either the means or the inclination to buy land from the government and open
                    farms. The Indians, and the hunters and traders who lived among them, had trapped and hunted over
                    those hills and valleys for many years. French traders had bought their furs, taking them down the 
                        Ohio
                     River and its tributaries and then paddling back with their purchases.
            The newcomers had just finished constructing their log house, aided by all the other settlers within
                    a radius of several miles, when they heard most unearthly noises from the direction of the 
                        Ohio
                     River. Scarcely had they recovered from the alarm caused by these mysterious sounds
                    when they heard rumors of a great array of Indians under Tecumseh and the one-eyed Prophet, his
                    brother; of a military expedition against those Indians from the 
                        Wabash
                     country 150 miles away, commanded by their governor, William Henry  Harrison; of Indian depredations at Pigeon Roost and other places; and
                    of a battle near the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     River where the Indians were defeated. Soon afterward an earthquake shook their house
                    so that the dishes rattled in the closets, and the tongs and shovels clattered on the hearth. Sad
                    news came up the river that the village of New Madrid in southeastern 
                        Missouri
                     had been all but destroyed, and a tract of land eighteen miles long in 
                        Tennessee
                     had sunk and become the basin of what is now the Reelfoot Lake. This earthquake was
                    said to have been preceded by the same noises heard on the 
                        Ohio
                     River. The Ewbanks were relieved soon after to learn that these latter noises were made
                    by a steamboat, the first ever to descend the 
                        Ohio
                     River and then the 
                        Mississippi
                    , up which it was not able to return. Having often heard and seen a steamboad on the
                    Hudson River at 
                        New York
                    , they were not frightened nor taken in by tales current among the settlers that the
                    monster which made such horrible noises had caused the earthquake. The Indian scare persisted into
                    the "War of Twelve," as it was called, and two or three of the sons from this
                    family saw service as Rangers or woodland militia, but without casualties.
            At first the newcomers had to depend chiefly on the forests for their living. There were no grocery
                    stores within many miles nor any money in circulation with which to buy groceries. A few bushels of
                    corn were purchased for seed and for an occasional taste of corn bread in one of the forms of
                    hoe-cake, Johnny-cake, or dodger. There were also acorns and nuts and many kinds of wild fruits, and
                    the roots of many plants were eaten as food, even in the fall and winter. Maple syrup, or tree
                    molasses as it was called, could be had for the labor of making it. The abundance of meat on a
                    pioneer's table depended only on his skill and diligence with gun and traps. There were
                    great flocks of wild turkeys and many other kinds of wild fowls. Deer roamed the woods in herds.
                    Bears were frequently seen. Squirrels and other small animals could be found by a sharp-eyed hunter
                    within a stone's throw of his home, if not in every tree. The streams were full of fish,
                    and neither seining, spearing, nor "gigging," was prohibited.
            Cutting second-growth trees of more than three inches across the stump, digging out the smaller
                    saplings and underbrush, and burning them in huge piles of brush and logs  to prepare a few acres for planting in the spring furnished occupation
                    through the fall and winter. Enough of the trees had to be split into rails and laid up as a
                    worm-fence to enclose the garden and grain plot, the panels zigzagging almost at right angles with
                    each other. These fences were built higher than a man's head, for there roamed in the woods
                    not only bears and flocks of turkeys and herds of deer that were all fond of corn, but also domestic
                    animals of every kind, horses, cattle, swine, and even sheep. It was not to be until seventy years
                    later that the law of Indiana would require owners to restrain by fences or tethers their domestic
                    animals on their own premises and to guard the crops of others from their depredations. Everybody
                    then adopted a "mark" for his hogs, cattle, and horses, either by branding each
                    animal with a hot iron, cutting its ears or tail in a peculiar manner, or providing other means of
                    identifying it. Then they turned all of them out to forage for a living on any unfenced land. The
                    thrifty farmer adopted definite times for giving his animals grain and salt, which taught them to
                    come often to his barn and not stray too far away. Cows readily learned to come home at milking
                    time. A large bell on a staid old cow served not only as a signal for the younger cattle to follow,
                    but gave notice where the herd could be found if they were too slow about coming in. An old mare
                    sometimes carried a bell in the same way to locate and bring home the colts and other horses. Many
                    animals practically ran wild until fully grown.
            A small reward for killing wolves had been offered before these settlers arrived, and only two weeks
                    after Indiana became a state this reward was doubled upon presentation of a petition by John Ewbank
                    and others, as the Journal of the state senate recites.7The
                    bounty for killing wolves within six miles of "any of the settlements" was
                    increased to one dollar for each puppy under two months old, and two dollars each for all two months
                    old and upward. The scalp of each wolf with the ears entire had to be produced and affidavit made of
                    the hunter's belief as to the wolf's age. But the law is silent as to how the
                    exact age of a wolf puppy should be ascertained. Two dollars, the wolf bounty, was the price of an
                    acre of government land wherever situated from 1800 to 1820.
            Besides hunting, seining, and spearing to supply their 
                  
                     7
                            Journal of the Senate of Indiana, 1816–1817, p. 8.
               
                     tables with game and fish, and ranging the woods for
                    substitutes for bread and syrup and vegetables, the settlers had a Herculean task to clear and fence
                    a few additional acres each year for planting corn, small grains, vegetables, and other crops. The
                    face of the country was entirely covered with giant forest trees with the undergrowth among them.
                    Before a field could be planted the large trees had to be cut down, or at least killed by cutting
                    through the bark all the way around them (girdling), so that the leaves would no longer shade the
                    ground; and the smaller saplings and bushes must be dug out by the roots. Then the brush had to be
                    collected in immense piles, which were later burned. Many logs from the trees that were cut down
                    were split up for fence rails or used in the building of house and barn or stable. The others were
                    cut and split into four-foot lengths to use in the house as fuel or they were rolled into huge heaps
                    and set on fire. Many trees that were only deadened were left standing while crops of Indian corn,
                    small grains, vegetables, and hay were planted and harvested among them for a few years, until the
                    limbs and trunks became dry enough that they were set on fire and burned down. A few acres were
                    added each year to the cultivated fields.
            After ten years John Ewbank, Sr., gave for a neighborhood cemetery and the site of a chapel the
                    half-acre of 
                  
                            The Chapel
                        
               
                     ground surrounding the cabin that his family had occupied for
                    the first few months. His church class, now grown to a congregation, built a stone meeting-house
                    which, with the cemetery surrounding it, much enlarged, is still in use.
            When our pioneer, after living twenty years in the log house, built and moved into the residence of
                    stone where his great-grandson now lives, only patches of cleared land had been opened in the
                    thousand acres of forest he had acquired. These clearings were dotted with stumps, especially 
                  
                            The Ewbank Home
                        
                of the larger trees. The stone house had a brick oven built into the room designed for a
                    kitchen, in which a fire could be built and drawn out after its walls were thoroughly heated, thus
                    preparing the baking of a week's supply of bread and pies which could be done at one
                    operation.
            After another fifty years when the son John, who was my grandfather, passed away, the work of
                    "clearing" the fields still continued. After a hundred years, there still were
                    stumps to interfere with plowing and cultivation. Within less then ten years after they came, the
                    older sons and daughters had begun to marry, and were provided with separate  homes, barns, fences, and clearings. Soon the home on the bank of the
                    creek was grandfather's house and the tall clock was grandfather's clock, a
                    distinction they maintained for a full century.
            The small fields dotted with giant stumps that spread their roots just below the surface to trip up
                    unwary plowmen could not have been cultivated in the present fashion. Farm machinery as we use it
                    was then unknown, but modern implements could not have been operated over and among the stumps if
                    they had had them. Plows were of wood with possibly a cutting edge of metal which only scratched the
                    surface of the soft leaf mold. Corn was planted in holes dug with a hoe, and covered with dirt drawn
                    over it. Potatoes and like vegetables were planted in the same way. The principal tool for
                    cultivating all crops was a hoe. If there were not too many stumps, perhaps the corn might be
                    planted in rows and cultivated with a single-shovel plow drawn by one horse ridden by a boy or led
                    by a man. Small grains were sowed broadcast by hand and dirt was drawn over them by dragging a bush
                    (often a thorn bush) back and forth. The few stalks of corn produced were cut off and carried to the
                    barn where the ears were husked. When the wheat or oats or rye or barley was ripe, it was reaped
                    with long curved knives called sickles. A workman holding the sickle in his right hand would cut off
                    a handful of straws that he drew together and held in his left hand. Another man, or perhaps a
                    woman, would follow, collecting a small armful of these bunches of straw, which had been cut and
                    laid on the ground. They were bound into a sheaf with a band made of straws plucked from it. When
                    any such small grain had been harvested, it was threshed by spreading it upon a smooth floor of
                    boards, or perhaps of dry earth, and by beating the heads with what was called a flail. This
                    consisted of a stick much like a broom handle, with a shorter heavy club tied to the end of it. By
                    causing the club to swing at the end of the handle and strike the heads of grain, it could be made
                    to loosen the grain of wheat or rye or barley or oats from the chaff and straw. The straw was raked
                    away, well shaken to get the grain out of it, and the chaff and grain were placed in baskets and set
                    aside until they could be winnowed by the wind. When the wind blew hard enough and just right, the
                    chaff and grain were tossed up for it to separate by blowing 
                    the chaff away while the grain fell to the floor. Threshing and winnowing a bushel of wheat was
                    considered a fair day's work, though an occasional workman could thresh two bushels.
            Great-grandfather did not live to see the transition from the sickles to the cradle, which is a sort
                    of scythe equipped with fingers against which the straw would fall when cut by swinging the blade
                    against it. Reaping machines drawn by horses were invented after his death, and in the course of
                    many years were developed into self-binders that cut the grain and bound the sheaves with wire and
                    afterward with twine. Several of his grandsons had grown to be men before threshing separators were
                    invented, and two of them purchased and operated the first separator that was ever used on the
                    "Home Place" or near there. It only beat the grain and chaff loose from the straw,
                    to be winnowed by a fanning mill turned by a hand crank. These fanning mills were invented about the
                    same time as the separator, but the fans and screens were afterward built into the threshers.
                    Further developments of the past century have brought us to the "combine," which
                    reaps, threshes, and separates the grain at a single operation, while a tractor draws it across the
                    field.
            The clock has also watched the development of schools from the primitive ideal of pupils seated on a
                    log, facing the master seated on another, to our centralized system where children are carried in
                    auto busses six or eight or ten miles to schools where the eight grades are taught in different
                    rooms, and a four-year high school course is added. Such a school stands almost within sight from
                    the windows toward which the clock's face is turned. The pack-horse trail on which this
                    clock was brought up from the river, passing for miles along the rocky bed of the creek, developed
                    into a dirt road (often mud) along the top of the creek bank west of the stone house, afterwards
                    into a stone road on the sidehill east of it, and finally into a state highway paved with concrete
                    and asphalt.
            After forty years a railroad was built a mile away. After another fifty years a telephone was
                    installed in the room with the clock. It has witnessed and heard in succession the phonographs
                    operated with little wax cylinders, victrolas that had flat circular disk records, and radios that
                    automatically produce strange noises by day or night. It  has
                    seen in succession the children and youths who spent hours at a time playing with these new
                    inventions afterward bring children of their own to follow the same routine. It has seen a
                    succession of housewives arrive as blooming young brides, and half a century later carried away to
                    their long rest as aged grandmothers. It has listened to hopeful prophesies of optimism and to
                    dismal wails of pessimism.
            Through it all the clock has kept a straight face, attending strictly to its business of telling the
                    time, only thoughtfully observing tick-tock and punctuating the passage of each hour with strokes on
                    its bell.
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            The closing talk of a series sponsored by the Indiana Historical Society was given by Judge Curtis G.
                    Shake, of the Supreme Court, in the Society's library, Thursday afternoon, May 28. His
                    announced subject was "Beginnings of Cultural Movements in 
                        Vincennes
                    "; Judge Shake limited himself, however, to an account of the first schools and
                    the first educational work at 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            The earlier addresses of the season were by Lee Burns on "The Story of an 
                        Indianapolis
                     Printing House," Tuesday, December 2, and by Glenn A. Black on "The
                    Angel Mounds," illustrated by slides, Thursday evening, January 29.
            In charge of the meetings last season and next winter is a committee of three 
                        Indianapolis
                     members of the Society: J. W. Fesler, chairman, Franklin L. Burdette, and Mrs. John K.
                    Goodwin.
            The paper of Joseph C. Wolf, of the Newberry Library, 
                        Chicago
                    , presented before the Genealogy Session of the Twenty-third Annual Indiana History
                    Conference, December 13, upon "Tools and Technique of Genealogical Research," and
                    published in the March number of the Indiana Magazine of History, has been
                    reprinted for the Newberry Library and the Indiana State Library. So long as the supply lasts, it
                    may be obtained at ten cents per copy at the Genealogy Room of the Indiana State Library, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            In the general reduction of the Work Projects Administration, the archaeological project of exploring
                    the Angel Mounds on the 
                        Ohio
                     River east of 
                        Evansville
                    , sponsored by the Historical Bureau with the Indiana Historical Society and Indiana
                    University as co-sponsors, was discontinued late in May. Glenn A. Black, the Society's
                    director of archaeology, will continue to reside and work at the site. He will have a force of three
                    or four men, all working for the Society. The Historical Bureau and the University will continue to
                    co-operate with the Society as before and during the operations of the W.P.A.
            It is only fair and in accordance with factual reporting to state here that this archaeological
                    project was an ideal setup for the purposes for which the W.P.A. was organized  and that it has been beyond question one of the best administered
                    projects in the history of the W.P.A. A large force of unskilled men, including many who would
                    otherwise have been dependent entirely upon relief, were employed upon the project. The number
                    varied in accordance with the resources of the project and the amount of unemployment in 
                        Warrick
                     and 
                        Vanderburgh
                     counties from more than one hundred to a dozen or so. Those who took advantage of this
                    employment to get pay without earning it were quickly eliminated, and the survivors without
                    exception became both interested and skillful in uncovering and. in handling prehistoric remains and
                    artifacts. There was no waste and remarkable little carelessness. The Society has every reason to be
                    gratified with the archaeological results and the Government is equally gratified at the economic
                    and social results of the labor employed.
            In response to a call for a committee of the Society upon early industries, little shops, and pioneer
                    methods of work, several members have already volunteered to serve on such a committee. At the
                    office of the secretary, 408 State Library and Historical Building, expressions of gratification
                    have been received that an opportunity might be provided for making known some of the places and
                    persons hitherto neglected by historical societies and writers. Longstanding committees on covered
                    timber bridges and on early water-power mills have done good works upon those subjects. With these
                    exceptions, the new proposed committee will cover the whole field of pioneer and contemporary
                    domestic industry. All members of the Society interested should enroll on the committee.
            Mass production for national and world distribution doubtless will be the chief method of production
                    from now on for an indefinite period, perhaps even after the natural resources upon which it feeds
                    begin to be exhausted. Accurate and intimate information about earlier, smaller, and simpler means
                    of production will become an increasingly interesting and important element in historical
                    records—and an element which will be increasingly difficult to supply. It may even be
                    that there is a place for little mills, little shops, and domestic production for home consumption
                    under the shadow of national and international mass production factory systems. If so, this
                    committee may be of help in the practical application of historical work.
         
         
         
            Documents
            The Rayneval Memorandum of 1782
            
               Edited by FLORENCE G. WATTS
            
            The determination of the Western boundaries of the 
                        United States
                     during the peace negotiations following the American Revolution is of importance to all
                    interested in American history. As a factor in that determination, the expedition of George Rogers
                    Clark in 1778–1779 has long been a subject of argument among historians as well as among
                    an interested laity. That many people are convinced of its importance is attested by the magnificent
                    Memorial at 
                        Vincennes
                    , which commemorates Clark's conquest.
            Some historians, however, particularly among those whose associations have been on the eastern
                    seaboard, have been unwilling to admit the validity of claims as to the results of Clark's
                    invasion of the 
                        Illinois
                     country. Assuredly there is still room for discussion, but statements like the
                    following by the late Professor Edward Channing of 
                        Harvard
                     University can no longer be made. He wrote: 
                        It will be noticed that Clark's conquest of the Northwest has been given no place in
                            the text as a decisive factor in inducing Great Britain to relinquish her hold upon that
                            region. No doubt the knowledge of recent events in the 
                                Illinois
                             country influenced both the American and the British negotiators; but there is
                            no reference to Clark or his conquest in any of the diplomatic papers that have been
                            consulted in this research.1
                  
                    
            
            The late Professor Claude H. Van Tyne of the University of 
                        Michigan
                     took the opposite view, and long had a good-natured argument with Channing on the
                    subject. Some years ago, Channing made the statement to Dr. Randolph G. Adams of the William L.
                    Clements Library at 
                        Ann Arbor
                     that the men who negotiated the peace treaty in 
                        Paris
                     in 1782–1783, not including the American commissioners, never heard of
                    George Rogers Clark and his exploits. Dr. Adams was on his way to Europe. In the 
                        Paris
                     archives he found the accompanying Rayneval Memorandum.2 He wrote
                    to Channing, 
                  
                     1 Edward Channing, A History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (6 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1905–1925, III, 361, n. 1.
                  
                     2 This data was contained in a letter to the editor from Mr. Howard
                            Peckham, curator of manuscripts at the William L. Clements Library, under date of December
                            16, 1940.
               
                     calling attention to the reference to Clark in the memorandum,
                    but did not receive a reply.
            A photostat of this memorandum was furnished by Mr. Howard Peckham, curator of manuscripts at the
                    Clements Library, when an inquiry was made as to the existence of documents in the library
                    mentioning Clark.
            The memorandum was prepared during the negotiations between John Jay, the representative of the 
                        United States
                    , and the Count de Aranda, Spanish Ambassador in 
                        Paris
                    , by Joseph Mathias Gerard de Rayneval, private secretary of Count de Vergennes, the
                    Minister of Foreign Affairs of 
                        France
                     from 1774 to 1787. The date of its composition was probably between August 23 and
                    August 30, 1782, some changes being made on the latter date or shortly thereafter.3 Just before Rayneval left for 
                        England
                     on September 7, he sent a memorandum to Jay covering some of the same ground. This
                    latter document, sent by Jay to the 
                        United States
                    , is well known to historians, having been printed in translation by Jared Sparks4 and Francis Wharton.5 Recently, Samuel F. Bemis has
                    published the original French document, which he calls the "Compromise
                        Memorandum."6 The earlier and longer document, prepared for the
                    Spanish Ambassador, has not been so well known. Channing's statement, quoted above, proves
                    that he had not used it. Professor Bemis used it in preparing his Diplomacy of the
                        American Revolution.7 More recently he has published the original
                    French text of three of the four copies that are known to exist8 The original
                        
                  
                     3 Samuel F. Bemis, "The Rayneval Memoranda of 1782 and Some
                            Comments on the French Historian Doniol," in America Antiquarian Society Proceedings (
                                Worcester
                            , 
                                Massachusetts
                            , 1812-: n.s., 1880-), XLVII (1937), 15–92, see 41.
                  
                     4 Jared Sparks (ed.), The Diplomatic Correspondence of
                                the American Revolution (6 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1857), IV, 482–85.
                  
                     5 Francis Wharton, The Revolutionary Diplomatic
                                Correspondence of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (6 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1889), VI, 25–27.
                  
                     6 Bemis, "The Rayneval Memoranda of
                            1782…" in American Antiquarian Society Proceedings,
                            n.s. XLVII, 18–21.
                  
                     7 Samuel F. Bennis, The Diplomacy of the American
                                Revolution (
                                New York
                            , c. 1935), 219, n. 12. Bemis corrected some items of this note in his article
                            in the American Antiquarian Society Proceedings XLVII, 15–92.
                  
                     8 Bemis, "The Rayneval Memoranda of
                            1782…" in American Antiquarian Society Proceedings,
                            especially 41 et ff. The serious student should study carefully this
                            publication. A copy was placed in the English files of the French archives. There are two
                            copies in 
                                Spain
                            , one in the Archivo de Simancas, and one in the files of embassy papers, now in
                            the Archivo Historico National. The two French copies and the
               
                     holograph copy, here reproduced from a photostat, was filed in
                    the Archives du Ministre des Affairs Estrangeres, Correspondence Politique, XXII, 309–17.
            The importance of the document to the history of the West and the fact that it has not hitherto been
                    published in translation are the chief justification for the publication of the memorandum in this
                    historical journal. It deserves to be more widely known than it has been, especially to students of
                    Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     history.
            There are a number of imperfections in the publication by Professor Bemis, which serve to lessen the
                    confidence of the meticulous student, although otherwise they are not of a serious nature. They
                    appear to be the result of haste, perhaps in reading the document, which is difficult to decipher,
                    or in proof reading. Rayneval wrote on the right half of each page, leaving the left half for
                    amendments. On the right half of some of the pages various words, some of which can still be read,
                    were crossed out, and on the left hand side of some pages various changes and additions were made.
                    Bemis has not always indicated these changes to the reader. To be sure, they do not seem to be of
                    great importance, and it must be noted that the meaning of the document may be secured from the
                    Bemis text; but it is also true that the reader does not have before him the exact text of the
                    original document.
            Professor Bemis follows Channing in ascribing little importance to the Clark expedition as an
                    influence on the peace negotiations. He stated: 
                        This is the only mention I have ever seen of the exploits of George Rogers Clark in the
                            diplomatic correspondence relating to the negotiation of the peace. It does not seem to me
                            enough to attribute to Clark any influence on the peace terms, far from supporting the
                            exaggerated claims that his "conquests" enabled the 
                                United States
                             to win the Northwest in the peace negotiations. As a matter of fact Clark had
                            withdrawn to the line of the 
                                Ohio
                             before 1782 and the British exerted, from their Lake posts, more effective
                            influence over this "no mans land" than did the 
                                United States
                            .9
                  
                    
            
            It might be suggested that Rayneval's reference to Clark's expedition is more
                    important than his depreciatory 
                  second-mentioned Spanish copy are the three published by Bemis. The additional copies of
                            this memorandum contain a further expression of the argument in respect to the western
                            claims of the colonies.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 53, n. 1.
               
                     way of describing it. Holding the views that he did, the
                    secretary could not be expected to be enthusiastic about the matter. He, however, definitely does
                    not exclude the possible presentation of the conquest as evidence supporting the claims of the
                    Americans.
            In the following pages there are presented, first, a reproduction of the photostat copy of the
                    original document; second, a transcript of the document, as carefully made as the handwriting of
                    Rayneval and the imperfections of the photostat permit;10 and finally, a
                    translation of the document. In preparing the transcript the words that were scratched out on the
                    original but which are still legible are indicated by being inclosed in parentheses; if they are not
                    legible the parentheses indicate their place and the approximate space occupied by them. In the
                    translation, the words that were added in the left side of the page are indicated by being inclosed
                    in parentheses. There is one exception to this rule, both in the transcript and the translation. On
                    page eight the parentheses are in the original document, so the marginal note is placed in double
                    parentheses. The spelling, capitalization, and the accents of the original document have been
                    preserved in the transcript. Where the character of the accent was doubtful it was assumed to be in
                    accord with general practice. It was, also, impossible in many instances to distinguish between
                    capital and small letters.
            The geographical features mentioned in the memorandum may be located on Mitchell's Map of
                    North America, 1775, second edition, a small reproduction of which was included in the Atlas of the Historical Geography of the 
                            United States
                        
               , (compiled by Charles O. Paullin, and published by the Carnegie Institution of 
                        Washington
                     and the American Geographical Society of 
                        New York
                    , 1932), plate, 89. The line proposed in this memorandum is not indicated on this map.
                    Because of the mislocation of the Euphasee River on the Mitchell Map a distorted idea of the
                    Rayneval proposal is obtained. Samuel C. Williams, Dawn of 
                            Tennessee
                         Valley and 
                            Tennessee
                         History (
                        Johnson City
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                    , 1937), 38–39, identifies the Euphasee as the modern Hiwassee. Justin 
                  
                     10 A'n archivist using a stylus endeavored to make the
                            photostat clearer along the edges of the pages where the focus was not too good. In other
                            places the photostat is difficult to read.
               
                     Winsor, Narrative and Critical History of
                    America (8 vols., 
                        Boston
                    , 1889), VII, map opposite p. 148, locates the Euphasee in its correct geographical
                    location. The place called Kanessee or Tanassee is given on 
                        Mitchell
                    's map as Quanessee.
            The transcription and translation of the text have been carefully and skillfully checked by Professor
                    Edward D. Seeber, of Indiana University. Professor John D. Barnhart has assisted in the preparation
                    of the introduction. The profound thanks of the editor are due to both.
            
            
               
            
            
            MEMORANDUM OF M. RAYNEVAL, 1782 
            
                    1782.Memoire
               
                    Na. On a lieu de croire que ce Mémoire a été
                        rédigé dans le courant du mois de 7bre 178211
               
                    Sieur
                    Concernant les terreins situés à l'Est du 
                            Mississippi
                        , depuis la floride occidentale jusqu'aux frontiéres du 
                            Canada
                        .
                    Il s'est établi une négotiation entre la Cour de Madrid et les
                        Etats-unis de l'amérique septe relativement aux terreins
                        qui font l'objet de ce mémoire: La Cour de Madrid les reclame soit
                        à titre de conqu≖te, soit comme des dépendances de la
                        Louisiane; les Etats-unis, de leur côté, les reclament comme appartenants
                        aux Colonies respectives dans la paralléle desquelles ils sont
                        sitüés.
                    Pour pouvoir prononcer avec connoissance de cause sur des preéentions aussi
                        opposés, il est nécessaire de fixer létat des lieux tel
                        qu'il étoit avant le traité de 
                            Paris
                         de 1763: ce n'est que d'aprés cet
                
            
                    1782 ,Memorandum
               
                    Note: There is reason to believe that this memorandum was drawn up during the course of the month
                        of September, 1782.
                    Sir
                    Concerning the territories situated east of the 
                            Mississippi
                        , from western 
                            Florida
                         to the borders of 
                            Canada
                        .
                    A negotiation has been set up between the Court of Madrid and the 
                            United States
                         of North America relative to the territories which form the subject matter of this
                        memorandum. The Court of Madrid claims them either by title of conquest, or as dependencies of 
                            Louisiana
                        . The 
                            United States
                        , on their side, claim them as belonging to the respective colonies in the parallel
                        of which they are situated.
                    In order to adjudicate with thorough knowledge of the matter such opposing claims, it is
                        necessary to determine the condition of the territory as it was before the Treaty of 
                            Paris
                         of 1763. It is only in conformity with 
                
            
               
                  11 This note was added at a later date and is not a part of the original
                        document. It was probably added by an archivist. The figure representing the month has been
                        interpreted by Bemis as "J" followed by "iet" and as
                        indicating Juillet. It seems to be "7bre" and to indicate September.
            
            
            
               
            
            
            
                    état que l'on pourra déterminer respectifs les droit des
                        Espagnoles (comme et concilier des françois, et bien celui des anglais
                        reclamé tant par la Cour de Madrid que et par) les [sic]
                        Etats-unis.
                    Il est notoire que les établissements connus sous le nom de Louisiane (—)
                        formés (vers le commencement de ce ne siècle, devinrent
                        considérables que) lors du fameux systéme de Laws: on sait que cet (fam)
                        administrateur des finances, pour donner de la valeur (à) au papier qu'il
                        avoit crée et qui (commencoit déja à) perdoit déja
                        50 % imagina la compagnie dite du 
                            Mississippi
                        . On ne suivra pas cette compagnie dans ses opérations on se contentera
                        d'observer qu'elle n'eÛt [sic]
                        qu'une existence éphémere: mais que les Colonies qu'elle
                        avoit vivifiées (étendüesétablies) furent
                        maintenües: qu'elles s'etendirent vers l'Est entre autres
                        en conquerant le pays des Natchés, et qu'eles [sic] se
                        portérent au nord jusqu'au pays des 
                            Illinois
                        .
                
            
                     that condition that it will be possible to determine (and to reconcile) the respective rights of
                        the Spaniards and the 
                            United States
                        .
                    It is well-known that the settlements known by the name of 
                            Louisiana
                        , formed (at the beginning of this century, became considerable only) at the time of
                        the celebrated system of Laws [John Law]; we know that this Administrator of Finances,12 in order to give some value to the paper he had created and which was
                        already losing 50%, conceived the so-called 
                            Mississippi
                         company. We will not follow this company in its operations, but will be content to
                        remark that it had only an ephemeral existence; but that the colonies to which it had given life
                        were maintained; that they expanded toward the east by conquering among others the country of
                        the Natchez, and that they moved toward the north as far as the 
                            Illinois
                         country.
                
            
               
                  12 John Law was Contrôleur Général des
                        finances.
            
            
            
               
            
            
            
                     La Colonie avoit pou[r] bornes à l'Est (par) un assez grand nombre de
                        peuplades sauvages, tels [telles] que les Alibamous, les Creeks, &. une partie de ces
                        sauvages (et) etoient  amis et protégés de la franee;
                        d'autres étoient attachés à La grande Bretagne. La
                        franee étoit maitresse du cours de l'ohio, lequel servoit pour la
                        communication entre la Louisiane et le 
                            Canada
                        .
                    La guerre de 1756 ayant forcé la france de faire des sacrifices, Elle re offrit
                        à L'ang l'abandon de tout le canada. Cette offre (donna lieu)
                        engagea une discution sur les limites 'de cette contrée. Le
                        Ministére de 
                            Versailles
                         soutint que tout ce qui netoit pas 
                            Canada
                         etoit louisiane et que tout ce qui netoit pas Louisiane etoit 
                            Canada
                        ; cela vouloit dire quil nexistoit aucune possession intermédiaire entre
                        ces deux Colonies, il s'agissoit donc de déterminer ce que (—)13 formoit la
                
            
                    The colony had as limits on the east a rather large number of savage tribes, such as the
                        Alabamas, the Creeks, etc. One part of these savages were friends and
                        protégés of 
                            France
                        ; others were attached to Great Britain. 
                            France
                         was mistress of the course of the 
                            Ohio
                        , which served for communication between 
                            Louisiana
                         and 
                            Canada
                        .
                    The War of 1756 having forced 
                            France
                         to make some sacrifices, she offered to surrender all of 
                            Canada
                         to 
                            England
                        . This offer brought on an argument as to the limits of that country. The Ministry
                        of 
                            Versailles
                         contended that all that was not 
                            Canada
                         was 
                            Louisiana
                        , and that all that was not 
                            Louisiana
                         was 
                            Canada
                        ; that meant that there was no intermediate possession between those two colonies.
                        The question, therefore, was to determine what constituted
                
            
               
                  13 The author probably wrote "qu'il" before
                        scratching out the "il" and intended to leave "que."
            
            
            
               
            
            
            
                    La [sic] Louisiane, que la 
                            France
                         conservoit, et ce qu'appartenoit au 
                            Canada
                        , quelle étoit disposée à abandonner
                    Le ministérs de france proposa de partir dela riviére perdido
                        située entre la Mobile et Pensacola; de remonter jusqu'au fort Toulouse
                        placé dans le pays des Alibamous; de prendre la pointe occidentale du Lac
                        Erié, d'aboutir de là à la pointe orientale du lac
                        Huro'n; de remonter vers le nord et se perdre dans les terres vers la Baye de Hudson.
                        En jettant les yeux sur la carte on remarquera que par cette delimitation la france conservoit
                        presque tout l'ohio, ainsi que les lacs à l'exception (de ceux
                        d'Erié et d'
                            Ontario
                        )
                    La Cour de Londres fut bien éloignée d'adopter la ligne qui vient
                        d'≖tre indiquée; Elle prétendit que selon un
                        mémoire de 1755 signé par M. de Mirepoix, un écrit
                        signé de M. de Silhoüette, et la carte remise par M. de Vaudreuil lors de
                        la redition du 
                            Canada
                        , cette Colonie
                
            
                    
                  
                            Louisiana
                        , which 
                            France
                         retained, and what belonged to 
                            Canada
                        , which she was willing to give up.
                    The French ministry proposed to start from the Perdido River, situated between Mobile and
                        Pensacola; to go up as far as Fort Toulouse, situated in the country of the Alabamas; to take
                        the western point of Lake Erie; to come out at the eastern point of Lake Huron; to ascend toward
                        the north, and disappear in the territory toward Hudson Bay. On glancing at the map, it will be
                        noticed that by this fixing of boundaries, 
                            France
                         reserved almost all of the 
                            Ohio
                        , as well as the Lakes with the exception (of Erie and 
                            Ontario
                        ).
                    The Court of 
                            London
                         was quite averse to adopting the line just indicated. It maintained that according
                        to a memorandum of 1755 signed by Mirepoix, a document signed by Silhouette, and the map
                        delivered by Vaudreuil at the time of the surrender of 
                            Canada
                        , this
                
            
            
               
            
            
            
                    Colonie comprenoit les lacs 
                            Ontario
                        , Erié, Huron, 
                            Michigan
                         et Supérieur et m≖me les outrepassoit, et que les
                        françois avoient toujours regardé ô'
                            Ohio
                         comme une dépendance du 
                            Canada
                        ; que les territoires des deux côtés de cette
                        riviére e ont été vendus à L'angr. par les
                        sauvages des six nations; que lui les m≖mes nations ont vendu le pays des Cheraquis
                        en 1729; que les Chicachas étoient sujets de la Grande-Bretagne; qu'il y
                        avoit des établissements anglois dans leur pays; que les anglois avoient des
                        factories et des des [sic] établissements chez les Creeks,
                        à lexception du fort Toulouse re usurpé par les françois sur
                        Fang qui l'avoit fait construire; que les 6 nations ont subjugué les Miamis
                        et les 
                            Illinois
                        , et qu'elles out fait vente de tous ces pays aux anglois.
                    Pour ce qui est des limites de la Louisiane,(c'est toujours la Cour de Londres qui
                        parle) elles ne sauroient ≖tre admises selon la ligne tracée par la
                        france, parce qu'elles comprendoient du côtée des Carolines
                
            
                    colony comprised lakes 
                            Ontario
                        , Erie, Huron, 
                            Michigan
                         and Superior, and even extended beyond them, and that the French had always
                        regarded the 
                            Ohio
                         as a dependence of 
                            Canada
                        ; that the territories on both sides of the river had been sold to 
                            England
                         by the savages of the Six Nations; that the same nations had sold to it the country
                        of the Cherokees in 1729; that the Chickasaws were subjects of Great Britain; that there were
                        English settlements in their country; that the English had factories and settlements in the
                        country of the Creeks, with the exception of Fort Toulouse, usurped by the French from 
                            England
                        , which had built it; that the Six Nations had conquered the Miamis and the 
                            Illinois
                        , and that they had sold all these countries to the English.
                    As for the limits of 
                            Louisiana
                        , (it is still the Court of 
                            London
                         speaking,) they can not be admitted according to the line traced by the French,
                        because they would include in the direction of the Carolinas
                
            
            
               
            
            
            
                    des régions très-étendües et des nations nombreuses
                        qui ont toujours été censées ≖tre sous la protection
                        du Rio d'ang.  re; protection à laquelle ce P e. nétoit pas dans l'intention de renoncer, et que SMte. uniquement pour le bien de la paix, consentoit à laisser (les
                        peuples intermédiaires dont il sagit) sous la protection de la grande Bretagne les
                        peuples intermédiaires dont il sagit [s'agit] et particuliérement
                        les Cherokées, les Creeks, les Chicavas [sic], les Chactaws, et
                        d'autres situés entre les établissements
                            Britanniques et le 
                            Mississippi
                        .
                    Tous les détails ci-dessus ont été consignéd
                        ministeriellement lors de la négociation entamée en 1761. On sait que,
                        quoiqu'elle ait été interrompüe, ce syst≖me
                        de la Cour de Londres fut consacré par le traité de 
                            Paris
                        , lequel do'nne à la
                
            
                    very extensive regions and numerous nations which have always been regarded as under the
                        protection of the King of 
                            England
                        , protection which this king has no intention of renouncing, and because His
                        Majesty, solely for the benefit of peace, consented to leave under the protection of Great
                        Britain the intermediate tribes in question, particularly the Cherokees, the Creeks, the
                        Chickasaws, the Choctaws, and others situated between the British colonies and
                        the 
                            Mississippi
                        .
                    All the details here set down were recorded ministerially at the time of the negotiation entered
                        upon in 1761. We know that, although it was interrupted, this system of the Court of 
                            London
                         was sanctioned by the Treaty of 
                            Paris
                        , which gives to
                
            
            
               
            
            
            
                    Louisiane pour limite le Cours du (l'ohio) 
                            Mississippi
                         depuis son embouchure jusqu'à sa source.
                    En résumant les détails dans lesquels on vient d'entrer, il paroit
                        évident: primo, que la france possédoit autrefois des terreins quelconques
                        à l'Est du Mississipi comme dépendants de la Louisiane; 2.do que la Cour de Londres, tout en contestant ces terreins,
                        avoüe, qu'une partie etoit independante, que l'autre
                        étoit sculement sous sa protection; et que tous etoient situés entre le 
                            Mississippi
                         et les établissements britanniques.
                    Il resulte de ces deux propositions, qu'en aucun terns [temps] les pays dont il
                        s'agit n'ont été considéréd comme
                        faisant partie des ci-devant Colonies angloises, et que ces m≖mes Colonies,
                        devenües indépendantes, ne peuvent déduire aucun droit de
                        propriété de celui de la Cour
                
            
                    
                  
                            Louisiana
                         as a boundary the course of the 
                            Mississippi
                         from mouth to source.
                    In summing up the details which have just been entered into, it appears obvious, first, that
                        whatever lands 
                            France
                         formerly possessed east of the 
                            Mississippi
                         were dependencies of 
                            Louisiana
                        ; second, that the Court of Londo'n, although contesting these territories,
                        acknowledges that one part was independent, and that the other was only under its protection;
                        and that all were situated between the 
                            Mississippi
                         and the British colonies.
                    It follows from these two propositions, that at no time were the countries in question considered
                        as forming a part of the above English colonies, and that these same colonies, having become
                        independent, can infer no right of possession from that of the Court
                
            
            
               
            
            
            
                    de Londres. Si les américains prétendent trouver ce droit dans
                        leurs chartres, il faut (en admettant le principe (que la Cour de Londres a pÛ
                        disposer des peuplades dont il est question)), il faut que ces chartres soient bien claires et
                        bien précises, et surtout, qu'elles soient postérieures au
                        traité de 
                            Paris
                        . Mais dans le cas-m≖me où ces chartres seroient de la plus
                        grande précision sur l'objet dont il s'agit, elles
                        seroie'nt sans force et sans valeur faute d'≖tre
                        étayées par une possession paisible: cette vérité
                        peut se démontrer. les pays occupés par les sauvages nommés
                        cidessus (ont) n'ont jamais été abandonnés, ils ne
                        pouvoient donc ≖tre, comme on dit, primo occupanti. La Cour de
                        Londres a elle m≖me rendu hommage a cette verité, (—) en
                        avançant qu'elle en a acheté une partie et que le surplus etoit
                        sous sa protection, et que le tout etoit situé entre ses établissements et
                        le Mississipi [.] il resulte de cette derniére
                
            
                     of 
                            London
                        . If the Americans claim that they find this right in their charters, (in admitting
                        the principle ((that the Court of 
                            London
                         could dispose of the tribes in question))) then these charters must be very clear
                        and very exact, and above all, they must be subsequent to the Treaty of 
                            Paris
                        . But even in the event that these charters be of the greatest precision concerning
                        the matter in question, they would be without force and without value in default of being
                        supported by peaceful possession: that truth is self-evident. The country occupied by the
                        above-named savages has never been abandoned; they can not be therefore, as the saying is, primo occupanti. The Court of 
                            London
                         has itself rendered homage to this truth by stating that it bought one part, that
                        the remainder was under its protection, and that the whole was situated between its colonies and
                        the 
                            Mississippi
                        . It follows from this last
                
            
            
               
            
            
            
                    assertion, que le prétendu droit de propriété et de protection
                        re de l'ang. n'a jamaîs été
                        incorporé aux Colonies; ainsi ces Colonies navoient point ce double droit
                        lorsqu'elles ont secoüé le joug de leur mere patrie. L ont-elles
                        aquis depuis? c'est une question de fait a laquelle on ne risque rien de
                        répondre (affirmativement) négativement: on ose croire que les
                        américains ne citeront pas comme une preuve de co'nqu≖te et de
                        proprieté lexcursion ephemère qu'un Colonel Clark doit avoir
                        faite en 1779 jusques au dela du Mississipi: ce n'est point ainsi
                        que l'on aquiert de nation à nation.
                    Quant à l'Espagne, elle n'avoit, en vertu du traité par
                        lequel la france lui a cédé la Louisiane, pas plus de droit que les
                        Américains aux pays dont il est question: elle n'avoit aquis (que ce
                        qu') cette contrée que telle qu'elle se trouvoit
                        réduîte par le traité de 
                            Paris
                        .
                
            
                    assertion that the so-called right of ownership and protection of 
                            England
                         has never been incorporated in the colonies; therefore these colonies did not have
                        this double right when they threw off the yoke of their mother country. Have they acquired it
                        since? It is a question of fact, in replying negatively to which we risk nothing. We venture to
                        believe that the Americans will not cine as proof of conquest and of ownership the ephemeral
                        excursion which a Colonel Clark must have made in 1779 as far as beyond the 
                            Mississippi
                        . It is not thus that territory passes from nation to nation.
                    As to 
                            Spain
                        , she had, by virtue of the treaty by which 
                            France
                         had ceded 
                            Louisiana
                         to her, no more right than the Americans to the territory in question: she had
                        acquired this country only in the condition to which it was reduced by the Treaty of 
                            Paris
                        .
                
            
            
               
            
            
            
                    mais des que le Roi d'Espagne s'est trouvé en guerre avec
                        l'angre il a pÛ conquérir tout ce qui appartenoit à
                        cette puissance à l'Est du 
                            Mississippi
                        : son droit à cet égard étoit égal
                        à celui des (possessions) Etats-unis. Ainsi SMte Cque peut
                        opposer aux américains un droit exclusif non seulement sur la floride occidentale,
                        mais aussi sur les terreins situés plus au Nord que ses armes occupent
                        actüellement. Le Roi d'Espagne n'a aucunement à compter
                        de ces Conqu≖tes avec les Etats unis; la possession incomutable ne peut en
                        ≖tre discutée qu'avec la Cour de Londres.
                    Au reste, les droits de l'Espagne ne sauroient s étendre au delà
                        de ses conqu≖tes: le droit de la guerre ne donne que ce que l'on tient
                        réellement, il ne connoit point les aquisitions des conqu≖tes
                        idéales; il resulte
                
            
                    But as soon as the King of 
                            Spain
                         was at war with 
                            England
                        , he was able to conquer everything that belonged to that power east of the 
                            Mississippi
                        : his right in this respect was equal to that of the 
                            United States
                        . Therefore His Catholic Majesty can confront the Americans with an exclusive right
                        not only to 
                            Florida
                        , but also to the lands situated farther north which his troops occupy at the
                        present time. The King of 
                            Spain
                         in no way has to account for his conquests to the 
                            United States
                        ; incommutable possession can be discussed only with the Court of 
                            London
                        .
                    Besides, the rights of 
                            Spain
                         can not extend beyond its conquests: the right of war grants only what is held in
                        reality; it does not recognize the acquisitions of ideal conquests; it follows
                
            
            
               
            
            
            
                    de là, que pour que-l'Espagne puisse reclamer avec justice les terreins
                        situés sur le 
                            Mississippi
                         jusqu'à l'embouchure de l'ohio,(aussi bien
                        que ceux situés le long de cette derniére riviére) il faut
                        qu'elle les ait fait occuper par ses troupes: dans le cas contraire elle n'y a
                        aucun titre; ils appartiennent encore à la grande-Bretagne.
                    Les américains soutiennent qu'ils ont des établissements sur l'
                            Ohio
                        . Si le fait est vraye, (les) ils ont la possession pour Eux, et l'Espagne
                        est sans qualité pour la leur contester. Mais on ne sauroit regarder comme une
                        possession les ventes de terreins faites inconsidérément par
                        l'Etat de Virginie: ces ventes sont un ≖tre de raison si elles
                        n'ont pas été suivies par des prises de possession effectives: et
                        dans ce dernier cas leur validité ne pourra ≖tre discutée
                        qu'avec l'angre qui se trouve ≖tre le possesseur
                        dépouillé.
                    De tout ce qui vient d'≖tre
                
            
                    from this, that in order that 
                            Spain
                         may claim with justice the lands situated on the 
                            Mississippi
                         as far as the mouth of the 
                            Ohio
                        , (as well as those situated along the latter river) she must have occupied them
                        with her troops; in the contrary case she has no title to them; they still belong to Great
                        Britain.
                    The Americans assert that they have settlements on the 
                            Ohio
                        . If the fact is true, they themselves have possession, and 
                            Spain
                         is without qualification to contest it with them. But sale of lands made
                        incautiously by the State of 
                            Virginia
                         can not be regarded as possession: these sales are a creation of the brain if they
                        were not followed by effective taking of possession: and in the latter case their validity can
                        be discussed only with 
                            England
                        , which finds herself to be the despoiled possessor.
                    From all that has just been
                
            
            
               
            
            
            
                    dit il semble resulter avec la plus grande évidence; que la
                        négociation etamée entre la Cour de Madrid et les Etats-unis relativement
                        aux terreins situés sur le 
                            Mississippi
                         et l'ohio, est sans objet; que cette négociation porte sur des
                        Pays (dont la plus grande partie) (qui) n'appar-tient ni aux uns ni aux autres, et que
                        les deux parties ne se doivent aucun compte de ce qu'elles peuvent posseder
                        actuellement dans les contrées en question.
                    Comme néanmoins il peut arriver que l'Espagne aquît, par le futur
                        traité de paix une portion quelconque des terreins situés à
                        l'Est du 
                            Mississippi
                        , et que les (angl) américains conservassent leurs possessions vraies ou
                        idéales sur l'ohio, la prudence veut qu'il soit fait un
                        réglement éventuel entre les deux Etats, afin de prévenir
                        d'avance les discutions et les querelles qui pourroient facilement survenir.
                    Dans cette suposition il s agiroit
                
            
                    said it seems to follow on the strongest evidence that the negotiation entered into by the Court
                        of Madrid and the 
                            United States
                         relative to the lands situated on the 
                            Mississippi
                         and the 
                            Ohio
                         is pointless; that this negotiation bears upon territories (of which the greater
                        part) belongs neither to the one nor the other, and that the two parties owe each other no
                        accounting of that which they may at this moment possess in the country in question.
                    Since, however, it may happen that 
                            Spain
                         acquire by the future treaty of peace some portion of the territory situated east
                        of the 
                            Mississippi
                        , and that the Americans retain their possessions, real or imagined, on the 
                            Ohio
                        , prudence requires that a contingent ruli'ng be made between the two
                        states, in order to forestall debates and wrangling that might easily occur.
                    In that supposition,
                
            
            
               
            
            
            
                    s'agiroit de convenir de 2 choses, 1.o de la navigation du 
                            Mississippi
                        ; 2. do de la limité quauroient les possessions
                        espagnoles (—) et celles des Etats-unis. ad primum. Le cours des riviéres
                        appartient de droit au souverain des deux rives; (ainsi) le cours entraine de droit la
                        navigation. Ainsi le 
                            Mississippi
                         appartiendra à l'Espagne seule partout où elle sera
                        maitresse des deux rives de ce fleuve: tel est le droit rigoureux: les exceptions ne peuvent
                        ≖tre établies que par des conventions expresses: ces
                        vérités sont constatées par autant d'exemples
                        qu'il y a de fleuves qui arrosent plusieurs pays.
                    Mais, dans la suposition que les américains ont des établissement sur
                        l'ohio, il sera de leur grande convenance d'avoir un
                        débouché par le 
                            Mississippi
                        : ce sera le seul moyen de les vivifier (les établissements en question)
                        mais l'Espagne
                
            
                    the point at issue is to agree concerning two things, first, the navigation of the 
                            Mississippi
                        ; second, the future limits of the Spanish possessions and those of the 
                            United States
                        . In connection with the first point, the course of rivers belongs by right to the
                        ruler of the two banks; the course incontestibly entails navigation. Therefore the 
                            Mississippi
                         will belong to 
                            Spain
                         alone wherever she is mistress of both banks of this river. Such is the strict
                        rule: exceptions can be established only by express agreements. These truths are supported by as
                        many examples as there are rivers which water many countries.
                    But in the supposition that the Americans have settlements on the 
                            Ohio
                        , it will be greatly to their convenience to have an outlet through the 
                            Mississippi
                        ; that will be the only means of giving life to them. But 
                            Spain
                        
               
                
            
            
               
            
            
            
                    l'Espagne repugne à accorder cette faveur parcequ'elle /craindroit douvr(ait)par la la14 porte à la
                        contrebande. Les aniéricains sentent la force de ces réflexions; ils se
                        contentent d'avoir ou un entrepôt où un port franc vers
                        l'embouchure du Mississipi, et à cette condition ils sont pr≖ts
                        à renoncer à leurs prétentions sur les terreins
                        situés sur le bord oriental de ce fleuve.
                    Il est à observer que jusqu'au commencement des hostilités entre
                        l'Espagne et lang're cette derniére puissance avoit
                        l'usage libre et illimité de la navigation du 
                            Mississippi
                        ; les anglais ne payoient aucun droit n'étoient sujets
                        à aucune visite, et pouvoient naviguer depuis le fond du 
                            Mississippi
                         et de L'ohio jusqu'en angre L'Espagne gagnera beaucoup
                        si les améericains prennent la place des anglais, puisque ceux-là ne
                        commerceront point avec l'Europe par le golfe du
                
            
                    is loath to grant this favor, because she would be afraid of thus giving entry to contraband. The
                        Americans feel the force of these considerations; they are content to have either an
                        entrepôt or a free port near the mouth of the 
                            Mississippi
                        , and on this condition they are ready to renounce their claims to the territory
                        situated on the eastern bank of this river.
                    It is to be noted that until the commencement of hostilities between 
                            Spain
                         and 
                            England
                         the latter power had free and unlimited use of the navigation of the 
                            Mississippi
                        ; the English paid no duties, were subject to no inspection, and could voyage from
                        the remotest parts of the 
                            Mississippi
                         and the 
                            Ohio
                         as far as 
                            England
                        . 
                            Spain
                         will gain much if the Americans take the place of the English, since the former
                        will not trade with Europe by way of the Gulf
                
            
               
                  14 In this line the author probably scratched put "ait"
                        at the end of "ouvrait" and inserted above the line
                        "craindroit," apparently intending to add "ir" in the place
                        of "ait," to make the work read "ouvrir," but forgot to add
                        the "ir."
            
            
            
               
            
            
            
                    du Mexique, que par conséquent ils ne pourront point verser de contrebande (dans) sur
                        les côtés de ce Golfe; d'un autre côté, la
                        nouvelle-orleans, ou toute autre endroit à sa place, devenant
                        l'entrepôt des américains, il en resultera un grand mouvement de
                        commerce dont le principal bénéfice sera pour les Espagnols, qui feront
                        seuls la navigation d'Europe en amérique, soit comme
                        propriétaires soit comme simples commissionaires.
                    Il paroit donc, que la Cour de Madrid peut, sans inconvénient, accorder aux
                        américains ou un entrepôot ou un port franc au bas du 
                            Mississippi
                        , cette Puissance pouroit établir quelques droits légcrs sur
                        les importations et les exportations sous le nom de droit d'entrepôt; elle
                        pourra aussi exiger que tout ce qui entreroit dans le port seroit visité, et convenir
                        des formes nécessaires pour que les visites ne soient pas illusoires.
                
            
                    of Mexico, and consequently they will not be able to pour contraband upon the shores of that
                        gulf; on the other hand, 
                            New Orleans
                         or any other place instead, having become the entrepôt of the Americans,
                        a great impulse to trade will result, of which the chief gain will be for the Spaniards, who
                        alone will carry on the shipping from Europe to America, either as owners or as mere agents.
                    It would seem, therefore, that the Court of Madrid can, without inconvenience, grant to the
                        Americans either an entrepôt or a free port at the lower part ox the 
                            Mississippi
                        . This power could impose some slight duty on imports and exports under the name of
                        warehouse-duty; she could also require that everything entering the port should be inspected,
                        and agree upon necessary forms so that the inspections be not fallacious.
                
            
            
               
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     ††Quant aux limites des terreins contentieux, dans le cas
                                où le Congrés persisteroit dans ses prétentions, on
                                pourroit les déterminer de la maniére suivante. En suposant que
                                l'Espagne conservera la floride occidentale, et que cette province
                                s'étend vers le nord jusqu'au 31. degre de latitude, on
                                partiroit (de) à cette latitude (du) point parallele au
                                Rio perdido situé entre la Mobile et Pensacola; on tireroit une ligne droite
                                sur le fort Toulouse situé dans le pays des Alibamous; de ce fort on
                                remonteroit la riviére d'albama ou Coussa
                                jusqu'à l'endroit ou elle recoit celle de Locushatchi; on
                                suivroit cette derniére jusqu'à sa source, et de
                                là on tireroit une ligne droite sur le comptoir appelée
                                Kanessée ou Tanassée; de cet endroit on suivroit la
                                riviére Euphasée, et ensuite celle des Cheroquées ou
                                Hogohegée jusqu'à son embouchure dans l'ohio.
                                (———-) Les sauyages situés entre la ligne
                                qui vient d'≖tre tracée et les frontiéres des
                                Etats-unis demeureroient neutres, et les Espagnols comme les américains
                                auroient également la faculté de commercer avec Eux; Dans le cas
                                où les américains auroient avec les
                     
                                
                           Si pour sé soustraire à l'un ou à
                                        l'autre les américains citent l'exemple de
                                            l'ang., re on pourra leur répondre
                                        que cette Puissance avoit des possessions à l'Est du 
                                            Mississippi
                                        ; qu'à ce titre la moitié de ce
                                        flueve lui appartenoit de droit, et que la navigation étoit une suite
                                        immédiate de sa propriété
                                        territoriale.††
                           Résume Du présent mémoire.
                           1. o Les américains nont aucun droit aquis sur
                                        les terreins situés à l'Est du Mississipi au sud
                                        de L'ohio.
                           2. do Que le droit de propriété de
                                        l'Espagne (ne s'etend) à l'Est du meme
                                        fleuve, ne s'étend pas au de là ses
                                        conqu≖tes.
                           3. Que la propriété (—) incommutable des uns
                                        et des autres ne peut ≖tre traitée qu'avec la
                                        Cour de Londres
                           4. o Que les pays non-occupés,
                                        cest-à-dire,
                        
                            
                  
               
                
            
                    If, in order to avoid one or the other, the Americans cite the example of 
                            England
                        , they may be answered that that power had possessions east of the 
                            Mississippi
                        ; that, in virtue of this, half of the river belonged to it by right, and that
                        navigation was an immediate consequence of its territorial ownership.
                    (As to the limits of the disputed territory, in case the Congress should persist in its
                        pretensions, they can be settled in the following manner. Supposing that 
                            Spain
                         retains western 
                            Florida
                        , and that this province extends north to the 31st degree of latitude, start at that
                        latitude from the point parallel to the River Perdido, situated between Mobile and Pensacola;
                        draw a straight line to Fort Toulouse, situated in the country of the Alabamas; from that fort
                        follow the 
                            Alabama
                         or Coosa river to its junction with the Locushatchi; follow the latter to its
                        source, and from there draw a straight line to the factory called Kanessee or Tanassee; from
                        this place follow the River Euphasee, and next that of the Cherokees or the Hohohegee to its
                        junction with the 
                            Ohio
                        . The savages situated between the line just traced and the borders of the 
                            United States
                         would remain neutral, and the Spanish would have with the Americans equal rights to
                        trade with them. In case the Americans should have controversies with the savages resulting from
                        the uncertainty of the boundaries, they will settle matters as they shall judge proper. 
                            Spain
                         will not oppose the extensions of territory which they may acquire.
                    Summary of the uresent memorandum.)15
               
                    1st. The Americans have acquired no rights over the lands lying east of the 
                            Mississippi
                         south of the 
                            Ohio
                        .
                    2nd. That the right of ownership of 
                            Spain
                         east of the same river does not extend beyond her conquests.
                    3rd. That the incommutable ownership of the one or the other can be discussed only with the Court
                        of 
                            London
                        .
                    4th. That the unoccupied lands,
                
            
               
                        
                     15 This long addition enclosed within parentheses and continued on the
                            next page of the manuscript, was added according to Bemis, at the suggestion of Aranda.
                    
            
            
            
               
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     sauvages des discutions (—) resultantes de l'incertitude des
                                limites, ils s'arrangeront comme ils le jugeront à propos:
                                l'Espagne ne s'opposera point aux extensions des terreins
                                qu'ils pourront obtenir.
                     
                                
                           c'est-à-dire, les peuplades sauvages situées
                                        entre le Mississipi, l'ohio et les Colonies angloises, sont
                                        indépendantes tant de l'Espagne que des Etats-unis; que par
                                        conséquent elles ne sont point matiére à
                                        transaction entre ces deux Puissances.
                           5. Que dans l'incertitude du sort des terreins
                                        apparte'ntants à l'angre la prudence veut
                                        qu'il soit fait une convention éventuelle entre la Cour de
                                        Madrid et les Etats-unis tant sur la nagivation du Mississipi que sur les
                                        limites des possessions espagnoles dans cette partie.
                           6. l'Espagne repugne à accorder la navigation de crainte
                                        dc la contrebande; les américains renoncent aux terreins
                                        s'ils obtiennent un port franc ou un entrepôt vers
                                        l'embouchure du 
                                            Mississippi
                                        
                           
                           7. Que la demande des américains
                        
                            
                  
               
                
            
                    in other words the savage tribes, situated between the 
                            Mississippi
                        , the 
                            Ohio
                         and the English colonies, are independent as well of 
                            Spain
                         as of the 
                            United States
                        ; that consequently they are not a subject for negotiation between the two powers.
                    5th. That in the uncertainty as to the fate of the lands belonging to 
                            England
                        , prudence requires that a contingent regulation be drawn up between the Court of
                        Madrid and the 
                            United States
                         both concerning the navigation of the 
                            Mississippi
                         and the boundaries of the Spanish possessions in this region.
                    6th. 
                            Spain
                         is unwilling to permit navigation for fear of contraband; the Americans give up the
                        lands if they obtain a free port or an entrepôt near the mouth of the 
                            Mississippi
                        .
                    7th. That the request of the Americans
                
            
            
               
            
            
            
                    
                  ne presente aucun inconvénient pour l'Espagne.
                  8. Les limites des possessions espagnoles pourroient ≖tre fixées de
                            la maniére, suivante: on suivroit le Rio perdido; de là en ligne
                            droite sur le fort Toulouse; on remontroit la riviére d'albama ou Coussa
                            et ensuite celle de Locushatchi; de là on tireroit une ligne droite sur
                            Kanessée; on suivroit la riviére Euphasée, ensuite celle
                            des Cherokées jusqu'à son embouchure dans l'ohio.
                  9. Les peuplades sauvages situés [situées] à
                            l'Est de cette ligne demeurer[éront] libres; et les espagnols comme les
                            Américains pourront commercer avec Eux.
                  10. Les américains arrangeront leurs limites avec les sauvages comme ils
                            l'entendront, et pourront aquérir des extensions de terreins.
               
                
            
                    presents no inconvenience to 
                            Spain
                        .
                    8th. The boundaries of the Spanish possessions may be fixed in the following manner: follow the
                        River Perdido; from there in a straight line to Fort Toulouse; go up the 
                            Alabama
                         or Coosa river and next the Locushatchi; from there draw a straight line to
                        Kanessee, and follow the River Euphasee, then that of the Cherokees to its junction with the 
                            Ohio
                        .
                    9th. The savage tribes situated east of this line are to remain free, and the Spanish as well as
                        the Americans may trade with them.
                    10th. The Americans are to arrange their boundaries with the savages as they will think proper,
                        and are to be able to acquire extensions of territory.
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The French in the 
                            Mississippi
                         Valley, 1740–1750. By 
                        Norman
                     Ward 
                        Caldwell
                    . (The University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, Urbana, 1941. Pp. 113. —2.00 cloth; —1.50 paper.)
            Perhaps the best means of reconstructing our knowledge of past times remains the examination of
                    official records of the period under consideration. In the case of the years before the wars for
                    control of the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley, Dr. Caldwell has used the reports and correspondence of French officers and
                    observers with real skill to show the problems facing the administrators of such an extensive
                    empire. Besides transcripts from the Archives Nationales, the Vaudreil Manuscripts
                    and the Public Record Office, he has searched through the Jesuit
                        Relations and other printed collections to find detailed and accurate data. Some of these
                    have been consulted for the first time on this subject. There is, however, some neglect of other
                    writers in the field. Despite Dr. Caldwell's assurances that he has consulted the other
                    printed sources he occasionally arouses the reader's desire to know what others have said
                    on the subject and whether the newly discovered evidence changes the previously accepted opinions.
                    An occasional sentence or footnote on the findings of others would have increased one's
                    confidence in his critical ability.
            In general, the author has set aside any preconceived notions about the inferiority of French
                    colonial administration and has shown by contemporary observation and report that the paternalistic
                    government of the French met with serious difficulties, difficulties which did not exist in the
                    English colonies. His sketch of the French colonial administration (Chapter I) is clearly drawn, but
                    is so brief as to be almost an abstraction; and his sharp conclusion (p.101) about the reasons for
                    the failure of the French system should be modified to a statement of fact about what did happen.
                    Generalizations based on the comparison (p. 44) between the English and French colonial
                    administration should include the observation that differences in national tradition, reasons for
                    migration, climate and geography, and even in the faulty carrying out. of a policy have been
                    overlooked. Most American writers, following Parkman, have been too eager to see the superiority of
                    democratic principles. Scholars, today, are not so sure of the democracy of all the English  colonies and it would be more proper to judge the failure of
                    the French on its merits and not on a hypothetical question of what the English would have done had
                    they landed at Quebec instead of Jamestown and 
                        Salem
                    .
            Dr. Caldwell has shown from manuscript sources the great difficulties that the French faced in their
                    colonial enterprise and in their attempt to build up and control the fur trade. He seems at times to
                    attach too much importance to the opinion of one observer, particularly Kalm (p.39) or Beauharnois
                    (p.67), but his authorities are contemporary and he has endeavored to use them impartially. He has
                    brought out quite well the relative importance of the various Indian wars which interfered with the
                    general plans and has indicated the beginning of the Anglo-French conflict in the valley. He gives
                    little significance to the superiority of English merchandise in quality and price and
                    underestimates the importance of the French missionaries. The statements of values in actual cash
                    figures is of slight use when the coin values were so changeable, but they do show careful work on
                    the part of the author. His conclusions are rather large for such a brief study. Dr.
                    Caldwell's mastery of the manuscript material is admirable and his style while not ornate,
                    is quite clear. Not to be picayune, but because of local interest, it should be pointed out that the
                    accompanying map places the 
                        St. Joseph
                     portage improperly.
            University of Notre Dame
            Thomas T. McAvoy
         
         
            
               The Civil War Veteran in 
                            Minnesota
                         Life and Politics. By Frank H. Heck. Volume III of the Annals of
                        America. Edited by Philip D. Jordan and Charles M. Thomas. (The 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley Press, 
                        Oxford
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , 1941. Pp. 295. Maps, appendices, illustrations, etc., —3.50.)
            It is only recently that adequate historical studies of the Grand Army of the Republic have been
                    undertaken. It is a subject of significance for our own times, and Mr. Heck's contribution
                    is of outstanding importance and excellence. In his earlier pages he describes the purpose, ritual,
                    and nature of the Grand Army of the Republic, its slow start and early weakness in 
                        Minnesota
                    , and its increased size and influence in the eighties and nineties. He then discusses
                    veteran activities in the state with considerable light on matters of national scope. Some of the
                    activities of the order  were social, being concerned with good
                    fellowship among comrades, convivial assemblage, fraternal benefaction, camp-fires, encampments,
                    flag ceremonies, parades, and excursions; others were of a public or political nature having to do
                    with pensions, soldier preference in government employment (often with slight duties), and pressure
                    politics in promotion of this or that type of soldier privilege.
            As to the party aspect of the G. A. R., one can point to that order's official declaration
                    prohibiting its use for partisan purposes. Practice and performance, however, did not always conform
                    to this well-intentioned rule. Many G. A. R. posts were "originally…organized as
                    Republican campaign clubs" and the order absorbed soldier groups united "primarily
                    for partisan purposes" (p. 238). In Indiana the Grand Army "served openly and
                    frankly as a political agency"; members were brought together "by their desire for good
                    fellowship and Republican supremacy" (p. 239). When the nonpartisan declaration was
                    adopted, many influential members resented this action; for this and other reasons local or state
                    officials looked with distaste upon the power and authority of "superior" national
                    officials. It was not uncommon for an ex-soldier seeking appointment to add party labors to his war
                    record, "exhibiting…a life-time of service for the Grand Old Party" (p.
                    162). Soldiers' and sailors' conventions, "ostensibly assembled to
                    consider…great…issues" were often of the sort that "any
                    well-informed Minnesotan…set…down as Radical Republican gatherings, pure and
                    simple" (pp. 191–192). The soldier vote was treated as a bloc. In circularizing
                    the veterans an astute politician would point to his "success at getting individual
                    pensions allowed or increased" (p. 187).
            Perhaps the most obvious functioning of the veterans as a pressure group was in connection with
                    pensions. When 
                        Cleveland
                     vetoed private pensions and exposed pension frauds he became the target of severe
                    veteran denunciation. Objecting to the principle that need be the criterion for pension eligibility,
                    the national encampment of the G.A.R. assumed a monopoly of the pressure function by adopting in
                    1884 "a gag rule forbidding posts to memorialize Congress regarding pensions, except
                    through the departmental and national headquarters" (p. 216). This was after more than a
                    thousand posts had petitioned in favor of the proposal that broken  and needy veterans should have preference over the strong and affluent.
                    By 1904 pensions had become universal for all who had war service; thereafter need or disability was
                    not necessary for eligibility.
            Numerous other topics are developed by Mr. Heck. He treats not only the G. A. R., but the
                    Woman's Relief Corps and various lesser veteran organizations, of which the Military Order
                    of the Loyal Legion was the most select, being a hereditary order whose high fees and emphasis upon
                    distinction kept it above the more plebian soldier groups. When treating intra-party factions the
                    author shows that no party in 
                        Minnesota
                     fitted the ideal of "a harmonious band of like-minded men" (p. 131).
                    He does not neglect contributions of the G. A. R. to community life, finding them more prominent in
                    sparse than in more settled areas. More might have been given on the relation of veterans to civil
                    service reform; perhaps more to patronage, though there are good bits on this theme. The word
                    "propaganda" does not appear in the index, for which many a reader will probably
                    be grateful; even so, it might be well if we had the G. A. R. counterpart to William
                    Gellermann's The American Legion as Educator. What matters chiefly,
                    however, is that the author, while mindful of reader interest, has served the cause of competent
                    scholarship. In elaborate annotations one finds credentials for every statement; those interested in
                    further study are assisted by an admirable bibliography and by other aids.
            University of 
                        Illinois
                    
            
            J. G. Randall
         
         
            
               English Whiggism and the American Revolution. By George Herbert Guttridge.
                    (University of 
                        California
                     Press, Berkley, 
                        California
                    , 1942. Pp. i, 144. Index, —1.50.)
            Shortly after writing the Prince Consort Prize Essay at 
                        Cambridge
                     in 1922 on the Colonial Policy of William III, Professor Guttridge
                    became affiliated with the University of 
                        California
                    . His David Hartley, M. P., an Advocate of Conciliation,
                        1774–1783, published in 1926, was the first of a series of monographs and papers
                    which have qualified him to write authoritatively on Whiggism in the period 1760 to 1783. The
                    present essay, originating "from a particular interest in the lesser figures of that
                    Whiggism which was dominated by Burke," might perhaps more accurately be entitled A History of the Rockingham Whigs. For the other  Whig groups are treated inadequately. Possibly such Chath-amites as
                    Shelburne, Camden, Dunning, and Graf ton (but not Isaac Barre) receive their due. But too much is
                    left to the reader's imagination regarding the factions originally led by George Grenville
                    and the Duke of 
                        Bedford
                    . It comes almost as a shock well toward the end to discover that "the death of
                    Suffolk and the resignation of Gower…left two groups leaderless within the ministry [p.
                    129]." Although the main theme is the relation of partisan divisions to imperial policy,
                    the author also seeks to show the relation between the imperial problem and domestic affairs. The
                    comprehensive documentation indicates how thoroughly Mr. Guttridge has delved into the pertinent
                    pamphlets, letters, and state papers. A few picayunish defects might possibly be noted, but the
                    preface takes care of most reasonable criticisms. It is to be hoped that the writer will eventually
                    emulate Mr. Feiling and provide us with that definitive history of the Whig party which has been so
                    long needed. No comment seems necessary on Professor Guttridge's style, as the rest of the
                    review is couched in his own words as much as possible.
            After being "submerged for forty years by the Whig tide" the Tories finally came up
                    on different sides of the ship. They found in George III a king who could manipulate Parliament in
                    the fashion of Walpole yet "kick away that aristocratic support which had preserved the
                    throne since the Revolution." Many associated themselves with a new party apparently
                    created unwittingly—a new Toryism, based on the "divine right of Crown in
                    Parliament." Some chose an independent role, while a few joined the Whigs, who had
                    gradually been transformed from the "reluctant revolutionaries of 1689" to
                    "complacent conservatives." In the late 1760's, the King was directing
                    his authoritarian policy particularly at John Wilkes and the American colonies. He was challenged at
                    home "by the champions of individual and corporate rights, organized in some degree as a
                    party."
            The Marquis of Rockingham had become the titular leader of the main body of the Whigs. Associated
                    with him in the House of Lords were such peers as 
                        Portland
                    , 
                        Richmond
                    , and Devonshire, while William Dowdeswell, Sir George Savile, the erratic Charles Fox,
                    and David Hartley were prominent cohorts in the Commons. In addition to such staunch  party workers as Edmund Burke and George Byng, he relied on a few
                    merchants like William Baker and Richard Champion and a few lawyers and churchmen. These men,
                    generally speaking, had two aims, the attainment of which would satisfy both their own political
                    interests and Whig practice of limited monarchy—to secure responsibility of ministers to
                    Parliament and to maintain a coherent group acting as a unit either in opposition or as cabinet
                    members. Their American policy was largely one of expediency growing out of the domestic situation.
                    They had difficulty in accepting the American version of Locke, for while they "were the
                    champions of political liberty,…they preferred that liberty in its authorized English
                    translation." Eventually they were reduced to the awkward situation of hearing the
                    Americans talk like old Tories while George III attempted to uphold Parliamentary supremacy by
                    force. True to their Declaratory Act of 1766 they insisted upon the shadow of Parliamentary
                    supremacy until the latter part of 1775. Then Burke almost equalled Chatham in proposing concessions
                    to the Americans but was defeated in the Commons, 210 to 105.
            The alacrity with which the Rockinghams accepted the inevitability of independence after Saratoga
                    indicated that anything was preferable to "an imperial connection through the King
                    alone." Their oblique attacks on the Crown not only in the matter of the conduct of the war
                    but also of patronage, parliamentary reform, and other domestic problems rather justified
                    independents in regarding them as being largely factious. The North ministry, prolonged by the death
                    of Chatham in 1778 and the Gordon Riots in 1780, finally disintegrated from within, contrary to the
                    popular notion advanced by the old Whig historians (and even including G. M. Trevelyan). Rockingham
                    and Shelburne (the latter carrying on in the place of Chatham) headed a new ministry in 1782 made up
                    of factions whose incessant wrangling during their years of ineffectual opposition gave evidence
                    that the Whigs had gained little since the "sixties except experience." The French
                    Revolution finally forced them to give up their middle ground between the new Toryism and the
                    emerging radicalism. 
                        Portland
                     and Burke (Rockingham having died) chose to go to the right; Fox pursued a more liberal
                    course.
            University School, Indiana University
            M. P. Allen
         
         
         
            
               The Frontier State, 1803–1825. By William T. Utter. Volume III of The History of the State of 
                            Ohio
                        
               , 6 vols. Edited by Carl Wittke. (
                        Ohio
                     State Archaeological and Historical Society, 
                        Columbus
                    , 1942. Pp. xiv, 452. Maps and illustrations.)
            The second volume of 
                        Ohio
                    's new coöperative history fits very nicely into the gap between the
                    first and third volumes which have already appeared. It begins with the framing of the first 
                        Ohio
                     constitution with which the first volume closed. The author had written a thesis and
                    three or more articles in the field covered by this volume. The account of the political history
                    from 1803 to 1812, treated in the first two chapters, is not an inspired narrative, but smacks of a
                    twice told tale. One misses a reference to the biographical studies of Nathaniel Massie and of
                    Thomas Worthington in the footnotes of these chapters. A somewhat more dramatic account is given of 
                        Ohio
                    's part in the Burr conspiracy. A rather long chapter is devoted to the War of
                    1812 as it was related to 
                        Ohio
                    , but it can scarcely be said to make any significant new contribution to the subject.
                    The biographical references in respect to William H. Harrison are drawn from the work of Freeman
                    Cleves, not that by Dorothy B. Goebel. A peculiar error was made in citing Logan Esarey's
                        Harrison's Messages and Letters (p. 92). The absence of references to
                    the Duncan McArthur manuscripts is also puzzling at this point.
            In the fifth chapter, entitled "Acquiring a Farm," the author seems to have become
                    more enthusiastic, describing the origins of the settlers, the manner of acquiring their lands, and
                    the influence of speculation. The chapter on "The Farm in Production" indicates a
                    good understanding of the problems of the pioneer farmer and his resources and their gradual
                    improvement. A good account of the importance of waterways and of the life and business along them
                    is found in the seventh chapter, which also deals at length with the coming of the steamboat. The
                    next chapter describes the rise of certain settled districts in the state and the development of
                    roads of various kinds with various types of transportation services that connected these sections.
                    An excellent picture of the industries that developed almost on the frontier is found in the ninth
                    chapter. The importance of lumber,  potash, tan-bark, flour,
                    whiskey, wool, salt, iron, and pottery was explained and the substitutions of factories for
                    household industries described. The financial history of the state which was quite important is
                    related in chapter ten and its political, repercussions are described in the following chapter.
            Three very interesting chapters bring the volume to a close. They concern "Sickness and
                    Doctors," "The Struggle with Human Depravity," and "A Maturing
                    Society." The second of these is marked by a well-balanced understanding that is critical
                    but that avoids the extreme scepticism that marks many twentieth-century descriptions of religion on
                    the frontier. The final chapter contains a picture of a developing urban society against an
                    agricultural background in which frontier conditions were beginning to disappear.
            Excellent illustrations are liberally spaced throughout the work, an excellent index is found at the
                    close, and the general format of the book is as good as the illustrations and index. Like the other
                    volumes of the set it lacks a bibliography. Although it is not marked by the brilliance of the first
                    volume of the Centennial History of 
                            Illinois
                        
               , this volume like its companions is a substantial and creditable narrative of 
                        Ohio
                    's history.
            Indiana University
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
         
            List of Contributors
            Richard L. Power is a member of the history department of St. Lawrence University, Canton, 
                        New York
                    .
            Willard H. Smith is a professor of history and political science, 
                        Goshen
                     College, 
                        Goshen
                    , Indiana.
            Louis B. Ewbank is a lawyer and author of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who served on the Circuit Court, 1914–1920, and on the Supreme Court of
                    Indiana, 1920–1927. With Dorothy Riker, he edited The Laws of Indiana
                        Territory, 1809–1816, volume XX, of the Indiana Historical
                        Collections.
            Christopher B. Coleman is the Secretary of the Indiana Historical Society and Director of the Indiana
                    Historical Bureau.
            Florence G. Watts is a resident of 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana, who is particularly interested in the American Revolution in the West.
            Thomas T. McAvoy is University Archivist, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana.
            James G. Randall is a professor of history, University of 
                        Illinois
                    , 
                        Urbana
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    .
            M. P. Allen is an assistant critic in social studies in the University School, Indiana
                University.
         
         
         
            Genealogical Section
            AN OLD RECORD BOOK
            contributed by BERNICE SALLEE MARTIN
            
            During the summer of 1939, while searching for some genealogical material in the Museum of the
                    Jackson County Historical Society, in the Jackson County State Forest, my attention was directed to
                    an interesting old record book. It is entitled Book No. 1, Record of Marks and is
                    the original record kept by the Recorder of Jackson County, Indiana, from 1817 to 1878 of the marks
                    used by the pioneers on the ears of their hogs.
            In early days there were few fences, and hogs roamed at will through the woods to fatten on beech
                    mast and acorns. It was therefore necessary to have some system of marking as proof of ownership. To
                    avoid duplication and to protect themselves in case a question arose concerning ownership, the
                    settlers registered their marks with the County Recorder. Even in Territorial days, hog raising was
                    important enough that laws were made providing punishment for theft of hogs, alteration of marks,
                    and failure to report strays.
            Mrs. Anna Borders, curator of the Jackson County Museum, graciously gave me permission to copy these
                    old entries to assist me in my search for some pioneer ancestors. Recently it occurred to me that
                    this list really serves as a rough directory of Jackson County in early days, and might be valuable
                    to many persons seeking proof of residence of their ancestors. I copied only the names and the dates
                    of recording with an occasional description to show the variety of styles in which hogs wore their
                    ears in those days. The pages of this old book are loose, and since they are not numbered there is
                    no way of telling if any are missing. Some entries seem to have been made in the spaces between
                    earlier entries—possibly to save paper.
            Book No. 1
            Record of Marks
            Demsey Moris' Mark
            A swallow fork in right ear and crop and half-crop in the left
            
               
                  
                  6th May 1817
               
               
                  Jacob Morris
                  6—June—1817
               
               
                  Lewis Rogers
                  7—June—1817
               
               
               
                  William Newland
                  7—June—1817
               
               
                  James Smith
                  24—June—1817
               
               
                  Wm. Kelley
                  5—July—1817
               
               
                  Michael Beem
                  8—July—1817
               
               
                  Solomon Cox
                  12—July—1817
               
               
                  Michael Beem, Sr.
                  16—July—1817
               
               
                  Millington Jackson
                  8—Aug.—1817
               
               
                  Abraham Huff
                  14—Aug.—1817
               
               
                  Jabez Crane orders his mark transferred to Jonas Crane
                  10—Sept.—1817
               
               
                  Asa Crane
                  10—Sept.—1817
               
               
                  Job Carter
                  28—Sept.—1817
               
               
                  John Parkes
                  27—Dec.—1817
               
               
                  James Tagert
                  7—April—1817
               
               
                  Isaac Williams
                  7—April—1817
               
               
                  William Wilson
                  25—April—1817
               
               
                  Jesse Butler
                  25—April—1817
               
               
                  Edward G. Jacobs
                  25—April—1817
               
               
                  John Ritter
                  12—May—1817
               
               
                  Edward Cooley
                  30—May—1817
               
               
                  Thomas Cooley
                  30—May—1817
               
               
                  Thomas Newby
                  8—March—1817
               
               
                  William Tabour
                  18—March—1817
               
               
                  John Craig
                  18—March—1817
               
               
                  Noah C. Willis
                  26—March—1817
               
               
                  Peter Herrington
                  6—April—1817
               
               
                  John Hover [Hoover?]
                  7—April—1817
               
               
                  Rebecca Bright
                  22-Jan.—1818
               
               
                  John Griffith
                  24—Jan.—1818
               
               
                  John Stephens
                  26—Jan.—1818
               
               
                  Thomas Cox
                  9—Mar.—1818
               
               
                  John Dopson
                  May—21—1818
               
               
                  John Arther
                  July 13—1818
               
               
                  Martin Douglass
                  Aug. 19—1818
               
               
                  George Jones
                  20—Oct.—1818
               
               
                  William Jones
                  20—Oct.—1818
               
               
                  George Iseminger
                  21—Oct.—1818
               
               
                  Jabes Crane
                  Nov. 2—1818
               
               
                  Peter Lyster
                  Nov. 16—1818
               
               
                  Stephen McCoy
                  Nov. 28—1818
               
               
                  Thomas Smith
                  7—Dec.—1818
               
               
                  William Russell
                  7—Dec.—1818
               
               
               
                  William Standerford
                  Dec. 19—1818
               
               
                  Thomas Whitson
                  Dec. 19—1818
               
               
                  Peter Johnson
                  Dec. 19—1818
               
               
                  Andrew Johnson
                  Dec. 28—1818
               
               
                  John Mapes
                  Jan. 14—1819
               
               
                  Levi Spring
                  Jan. 14—1819
               
               
                  Adam Miller
                  Jan. 22—1819
               
               
                  Joseph Goss
                  Jan. 28—1819
               
               
                  William Cockerham
                  Jan. 28—1819
               
               
                  Jesse Tabour
                  Jan. 28—1819
               
               
                  George C. Brightman
                  Feb. 9—1819
               
               
                  Obediah Walker
                  Feb. 15—1819
               
               
                  Jehu Mash
                  Feb. 17—1819
               
               
                  Jonathan L. Right [Wright?]
                  Feb. 26—1819
               
               
                  James Dudley
                  Feb. 27—1819
               
               
                  Smith Wright
                  March 11—1819
               
               
                  Gabriel Newby
                  April 10—1819
               
               
                  Elijah Olds
                  April 12—1819
               
               
                  John Robertson
                  17—April—1819
               
               
                  Joshua Moore
                  10—May—1819
               
               
                  Solomon Cox
                  10—May—1819
               
               
                  John Blair
                  10—May—1819
               
               
                  Jesse Tuel
                  22—May—1819
               
               
                  John Weathers
                  11—June—1819
               
               
                  William Flinn, Jr.'s Mark A smooth crop of the left ear
                  25—June—1819
               
               
                  Abraham Keller
                  13—July—1819
               
               
                  Caleb Elliott
                  30—July—1819
               
               
                  David Benton
                  23—Aug.—1819
               
               
                  John Standfield
                  24—Aug.—1819
               
               
                  James Hamilton
                  25—Sept.—1819
               
               
                  John Jacobs
                  30—Sept.—1819
               
               
                  John Kindred
                  2—Oct.—1819
               
               
                  John Whitkinnack [?]
                  2—Sept.—1819
               
               
                  Daniel Weddle's Mark A swallow fork in each ear and an under bit in each
                  2—Sept.—1819
               
               
                  Elias Day
                  13—Oct.—1819
               
               
                  Robert Holmes
                  20—Oct.—1819
               
               
                  Wm. H. Smith
                  26—Oct.—1819
               
               
                  Andrew B. Holland
                  Nov. 1—1819
               
               
                  Abel Findley
                  29—Nov.—1819
               
               
               
                  William Findley
                  29—Nov.—1819
               
               
                  William Summers
                  4—Dec.—1818
               
               
                  Caleb White
                  27—Dec.—1819
               
               
                  Maxilian [?] White
                  27—Dec.—1819
               
               
                  Thomas Wright
                  3—Jan.—1820
               
               
                  Basel Prathers
                  15—Jan.—1820
               
               
                  Edward Weddle's Mark A under stope in the right and crop and slit in the left
                  25—Jan.—1820
               
               
                  Henry Benton
                  26—Jan.—1820
               
               
                  Walter Benton
                  2—Feb.—1820
               
               
                  Isaiah Hornaday
                  2—Feb.—1820
               
               
                  James Slead [?]
                  22—Mar.—1820
               
               
                  James Copland
                  23—Mar.—1820
               
               
                  James Hanam
                  23—Mar.—1820
               
               
                  David Crane
                  5—Apr.—1820
               
               
                  William Robertson
                  Apr.—7—1820
               
               
                  Rufus Amans [?]
                  Aprile 27—1820
               
               
                  John Hubard no date given William H. Ewing
                  2—Nov.—1820
               
               
                  Joseph Hiett
                  2—Dec.—1820
               
               
                  David Kelley
                  18—Dec.—1820
               
               
                  David Kelley, Jr.
                  18—Dec.—1820
               
               
                  Jacob Hiatt
                  12—Apr.—1821
               
               
                  Alexander Howard
                  20—Sept.—1821
               
               
                  James Kelley
                  17—Nov.—1821
               
               
                  Jacob C. Baldwin
                  Dec. 12—1821
               
               
                  George Thompson
                  Dec. 12—1821
               
               
                  Jacob Scott
                  Jan. 1—1822
               
               
                  Nehemiah Whelen
                  Jan. 15—1822
               
               
                  John Newby
                  Jan. 15—1822
               
               
                  Asa Ketchell
                  Jan. 15—1822
               
               
                  Joel Williams
                  Jan. 21—1822
               
               
                  George Kress
                  Jan. 26—1822
               
               
                  John Ewalt
                  Jan. 29—1822
               
               
                  George Smallwood
                  Feb. 13—1822
               
               
                  Alexander Thompson
                  Feb. 13—1822
               
               
                  William Congleton [?]
                  Feb. 13—1822
               
               
                  John Chilcott
                  Mar. 19—1822
               
               
                  Samuel C. Tate
                  Apr. 3—1822
               
               
                  James Woodmansee
                  Apr. 7—1822
               
               
                  Joel Grantham
                  Apr. 27—1822
               
               
               
                  William Morgan
                  May 24—1822
               
               
                  Samuel Standfield
                  June 3—1822
               
               
                  Jonathan Crums
                  29—Sept.—1822
               
               
                  David Weddel's Mark A smooth crop of each ear and under bit in each
                  29—Sept.—1822
               
               
                  Solomon Watson
                  4—Nov.—1822
               
               
                  George Wagoner
                  28—Nov.—1822
               
               
                  William Marshall
                  28—Nov.—1822
               
               
                  Robert Gillaspie
                  5—Dec.—1822
               
               
                  John Marling
                  5—Dec.—1822
               
               
                  Absalom Parker
                  Jan. 17—1823
               
               
                  Luther Bedel
                  Mar. 18—1823
               
               
                  David Burr
                  Dec. 10—1823
               
               
                  Gabriel Woodmansee
                  Mar. 6—1824
               
               
                  Patrick Karnes
                  6—Mar.—1824
               
               
                  William Goforth
                  10—Mar.—1824
               
               
                  David Johnson
                  23—Mar.—1824
               
               
                  James Johnson
                  23—Mar.—1824
               
               
                  Elisha Sanderson
                  27—Mar.—1824
               
               
                  Ebenezer Henderson
                  8—Apr.—1824
               
               
                  John Reed
                  5—June—1824
               
               
                  James Brown
                  15—Oct.—1824
               
               
                  Hugh Brown
                  15—Dec.—1824
               
               
                  William Johnson
                  16—Dec.—1824
               
               
                  William Moore
                  Jan. 7—1825
               
               
                  James Wheeler
                  30—Jan.—1825
               
               
                  John Weathers
                  Feb. 5—1825
               
               
                  Moses Sewell
                  Mar. 25—1825
               
               
                  William Cardale
                  Apr. 26—1825
               
               
                  James Wilson
                  5—Oct.—1825
               
               
                  John C. Vermilya
                  10—Oct.—1825
               
               
                  Aaron Holman
                  24—Dec.—1825
               
               
                  John Hanners
                  12—Jan.—1826
               
               
                  John C. Barnes
                  22—Apr.—1826
               
               
                  John L. Jones
                  17—June—1826
               
               
                  Samuel Prather
                  17—June—1826
               
               
                  Stephen Cox
                  21—Aug.—1826
               
               
                  Hiram Noe
                  7—Aug.—1826
               
               
                  Isaac [?] Dixon
                  12—Aug.—1826
               
               
                  David Cordale
                  20—Oct.—1826
               
               
                  Uriah Hicks
                  31—Jan.—1827
               
               
               
                  Orange Monroe
                  17—Feb.—1827
               
               
                  Benjamin Draper
                  10—Nov.—1827
               
               
                  Solomon Ruddick
                  14—Mar.—1828
               
               
                  William Shields
                  15—July—1828
               
               
                  Thomas Collins
                  21—Jan.—1829
               
               
                  Matthew Tanner
                  21—Jan.—1830
               
               
                  George Keller
                  25—Jan.—1830
               
               
                  Joseph Goss
                  26—Jan.—1830
               
               
                  John A. Weddle
                  26—Mar.—1830
               
               
                  Willis Owens
                  20—Nov.—1830
               
               
                  John Owens
                  20—Nov.—1830
               
               
                  William Baldwin
                  6th—Dec.—1830
               
               
                  Jacob Watson
                  12th—Jan.—1831
               
               
                  Alexander Sweaney
                  Jan. 29th—1831
               
               
                  Willis Morgan May
                  4—1831
               
               
                  Stephen Cockerham
                  24—Sept.—1831
               
               
                  Francis Elliott
                  Jan. 21—1833
               
               
                  George Standfield
                  Feb. 23—1833
               
               
                  John Powell July
                  15—1833
               
               
                  Gabriel Chamlin [?]
                  Aug. 17—1833
               
               
                  George Kindle
                  Nov. 9—1833
               
               
                  Medy [?] W. Shields
                  Dec. 2—1833
               
               
                  Jacob Goutrey [Guthrie]
                  Apr. 22—1834
               
               
                  William Swine [Schwein?]
                  Jan. 30—1835
               
               
                  Nathan C. Rucker
                  Apr. 6—1835
               
               
                  Daniel Weddle
                  Feb. 28—1837
               
               
                  Josephus Crenshaw
                  Aug. 4—1837
               
               
                  Coleman Comstock
                  Dec. 30—1837
               
               
                  James Dudley
                  Dec. 30—1837
               
               
                  Henry Lyser [?]
                  Feb. 9—1838
               
               
                  Frederick Barkman
                  23rd April—1838
               
               
                  Dancil [or Daniel] Phifer [?]
                  9—Jan.—1838
               
               
                  Henry C. Dalton
                  Feb. 10, 1873
               
               
                  
                  [These last two entries, 35 years later than the previous one, are both on the last
                        page.]
               
               
                  Adam Heller
                  Mar. 15—1878
               
            
            See Book No. 2—page 6
            [Location of Book No. 2 not known]
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
      
   
