
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 85, Issue 4, pages 289-388. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:85+issue:4+year:1989&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Savage and Statesman: Changing Historical Interpretations of Tecumseh
            
                    Terry Rugeley
                    *
                
            One of the most romantic of all figures is the great failure who almost succeeds. Perhaps this
                    explains America's enduring fascination with Tecumseh (1768-1813), the man whose Indian
                    confederacy opposed the advance of the 
                        United States
                     into the Old Northwest territories. Equal to the white expansionists in strategy,
                    gifted with a compelling personality and undeniable conviction, Tecumseh at last fell before the
                    guns and numbers of his adversary. He climbed to the mountain only to see his people turned from the
                    promised land.
            Beyond the metaphors of romance, Tecumseh has proven memorable because his life typified the Indian
                    cultural pattern of decline, revitalization, and defeat. Tecumseh was born to the Shawnee, a tribe
                    whose ancestors had occupied the southeast and Ohio River regions since
                    prehistoric times. In 1765 the Iroquois, who claimed hegemony over the Shawnee, ceded the bulk of
                    what is now Kentucky to the British, and after the American Revolution this territory became part of
                    the 
                        United States
                    . As the remaining Shawnee migrated into Indiana and northwest 
                        Ohio
                    , their culture began to disintegrate under the combined pressures of white settlement,
                    white missionaries, and white liquor. The Shawnee decline ended abruptly in 1805, however, when
                    Tecumseh's younger and hitherto feckless brother experienced a series of visions that began
                    an Indian revitalization movement. Under the name Tenskwatawa ("the Open Door"),
                    and often called the "Prophet," Tecumseh's brother led a return to
                    traditional Shawnee values, founded Prophetstown in modern-day Indiana, and drew followers from
                    other tribes throughout the Old Northwest region. During these years of flux 
                  
                     * Terry Rugeley is a graduate student at the University of
                            Houston. The author would like to extend special thanks to James Kirby Martin and James H.
                            Jones for their advice and encouragement in this project.
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXV (December, 1989). ©1989, Trustees of Indiana
                            University. 
               
                     Tecumseh rose to prominence. Although more gifted as a warrior
                    than a religious leader, Tecumseh worked for six years to expand the alliances based on his
                    brother's cult. White settlers naturally viewed these developments with alarm, and in 1811
                    General William Henry Harrison defeated an Indian band led by Tenskwatawa at the Battle of
                    Tippecanoe. Thereafter the Prophet lost influence, and the Shawnee revitalization quickly changed
                    into a series of military alliances under the leadership of Tecumseh. The Shawnee joined with the
                    British in the War of 1812, and after repeated Indian victories Tecumseh fell—by hands
                    unknown—at the Battle of the Thames on October 5, 1813. The Thames debacle ended Shawnee
                    resistance and British-Indian alliances forever, and the tribe dispersed to reservations in 
                        Ohio
                     and Kansas.1
            
            These events, so redolent of Old Testament saga, naturally inspired a string of biographies. Indeed,
                    because Tecumseh's life has been written so often and with such different purposes and
                    assumptions, these biographies provide an index of larger Indian his-toriographic trends. The first
                    body of literature, coming from a predominantly antebellum romantic school, portrayed Tecumseh as
                    the noble savage. This forceful interpretation persists in popular and academic writings to the
                    present day even though it faded after the Civil War. Reflecting the concerns of postwar
                    industrialization, as well as the Indian wars then raging in the Far West, historians began to
                    qualify praise for the noble savage and to stress the squalor and disarray of Indian
                    life—features which they attributed not to white cultural invasion but to some flaw
                    within the character of the Indians themselves. This new "expansionist" school
                    still respected Tecumseh's leadership, but it contained reminders that Indian culture must
                    yield to Euro-American practices. A third school, founded by Frederick Jackson Turner, wrote at a
                    time when the west was settled, the frontier closed, and the Indian vanquished. In their fascination
                    with effects of westward expansion, the frontier school lost concern with Indian culture and
                    produced a consensus history in which Indian wars amounted to little more than distracting
                    disagreements on the road to a single national character. The frontier view yielded to a series of
                    highly diverse reactions. After the 1930s, some historians carried on the Turnerian mission; others
                    came from the nascent Indian rights movement; and still another group used Indian biography as a
                    vehicle for escaping to an innocence and adventure which seemed lost in the America of the 1940s and
                    1950s. Not until the late 1960s did a clear direction emerge in the New Indian History school, a
                    group that borrowed its concern for minority perspectives from the political 
                  
                     1 From R. David Edmunds, Tecumseh and the Quest for
                                Indian Leadership (Boston, 1984), 1-3, 11, 61-72, 75-81, 153-59, 210-12, 213-14,
                            224.
               
                     activism of its day and took its methods from the new
                    interdisciplinary approach that incorporated such fields as anthropology and psychology. The
                    romantic, the expansionist, the frontier, the post-frontier, and the New Indian History: these are
                    the five schools that have interpreted Tecumseh for the reader of history.
            Although Tecumseh was no role model for the white settlers who poured into 
                        Ohio
                     before 1812, soon after his death he appeared as the heroic savage who represented all
                    the best of man's natural qualities. To this effect, a much-quoted letter in the 1820 Indiana Centinal stated:
                        Every schoolboy in the Union now knows that Tecumseh was a great man. He was truly
                            great—and his greatness was his own, unassisted by science or the aid of
                            education. As a statesman, a warrior and a patriot, take him all in all, we shall not look
                            upon his like again.2
                  
                     Far from paradox, the Centinal letter was a natural reaction to the
                    passing of an Indian leader. Now that Tecumseh could no longer challenge their claim to the Ohio
                    Valley lands, settlers dismissed the charge of savagery and instead praised his charisma and
                    statesmanship. They took pride in Tecumseh as part of the region's past. He became the
                    "good" Indian whose better qualities had passed in myth, as his lands had passed
                    in reality, into the hands of the whites.
            This question of "good" vs. "bad" Indian often had less to do
                    with moral absolutes than with where one was standing relative to the acquisition of land. Since the
                    time of Columbus, Europeans had employed a dualistic myth about the Indians. The good Indian, the
                    docile and hospitable native who welcomed the fruits of white civilization, willingly gave the land
                    to the newcomers and thus legitimized their acquisitions. The bad Indian, the native who resisted
                    European encroachment, was usually portrayed as sexually wanton and wantonly violent, often a
                    cannibal, a creature whose intractability justified the excesses of removal. In reality, of course,
                    Indians seldom fell so neatly into these divisions. This ambiguity was especially true of Tecumseh,
                    who was by all accounts an expert orator; a man of arms who restrained his fellow warriors from
                    gratuitous violence; and a leader who was capable of far-reaching strategies and alliances, contrary
                    to the usual allegations that Indians lived only for the moment. But as the case of Tecumseh shows,
                    contradictions between myth and reality could be resolved by the bad Indian's death and
                    transfiguration. To twist an old phrase, the dead Indian became a good Indian.3
            
            
               
                  2 Quoted in Glenn Tucker, Tecumseh: Vision of Glory
                        (Indianapolis, 1956), 325.
               
                  3 For a discussion of the good and bad Indian, see Robert F. Berkhofer,
                        Jr., The White Man's Indian: Images of the American Indian from Columbus
                            to the Present (New York, 1978).
            
            
            
               Courtesy of Indiana Historical Society
            
            
            But the homage to Tecumseh in the Centinal letter reflected more than a regional
                    reaction. As white settlers began to spill over into the western lands, often through violent acts
                    of dispossession, the popularity of stories involving the noble savage became a cult that engaged
                    the entire nation. Tecumseh's own history was integral to this change. By ending the power
                    of the Indian tribes in the Old Northwest, the Battle of the Thames further separated the hubs of
                    popular and literary culture in the East from the actual scenes of white-Indian conflict. As the
                    boundary of the frontier receded further westward, Indians became the subject of romantic discourse,
                    the literary property of urban gentry who faced the tomahawk only in curiosity shops. James Fenimore
                    Cooper's Chingachgook was the classic literary formulation of this good Indian. First
                    appearing in 1823 in The Pioneers and reappearing in three
                    "prequels," Chingachgook embodied the stoic, fearless, and improbably skilled
                    native. The same motif functioned in the harpooner-savages of Herman Melville's Moby Dick (1851) and in Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's The
                        Song of Hiawatha (1855). Simultaneously, in politics the new heroes were the men who had
                    fought Tecumseh, who had gone into the Ohio Valley like Indians, who as warriors had lived the life
                    of the Indians, and who in victory claimed to have imbibed the Indian's virtues, as a
                    primitive hunter imbibes the strength of his quarry. William Henry Harrison (and Tyler too) became
                    president; Richard Johnson, one of many who claimed to have killed Tecumseh, became vice-president.
                    The Indian wars also advanced the careers of Andrew Jackson, Lewis Cass, Sam Houston, and David
                    Crockett. As the nation incorporated the land which had been Tecumseh's, Americans began to
                    discover his greatness as well.
            Two antebellum narratives typify the romantic school and the interpretation of Tecumseh as the good
                    Indian. Benjamin Drake's Life of Tecumseh, published in 1841, provided
                    for many years the most reliable version of the life of the Shawnee warrior. Drake's
                    account was remarkably free from the apocrypha common in later biographies; instead it chronicled
                    Tecumseh's military exploits. Life of Tecumseh drew upon interviews with
                    actual eyewitnesses and attempted to reconstruct some of the principal actors' more
                    stirring addresses. The author, however, did not maintain an attitude of clinical detachment. In
                    praising the virtues and accomplishments of Tecumseh, Drake proved himself to be one of those
                    visionaries often found in expanding nations; his writings project a sense of the absolute
                    limitlessness of human potential. Drake reminds the reader of William Prescott, a more able if
                    equally romantic historian, with the claim that Tecumseh, "but for the power of the 
                        United States
                    , would, perhaps, have been the founder of an empire which  would have rivalled that of Mexico or Peru."4 Drake undoubtedly placed immoderate emphasis on the Battle of Tippecanoe, arguing that in it
                    the "ardent enthusiasm which for years had sustained … [Tecumseh], in the hour
                    of peril and privation, was extinguished."5 Finally, Drake offered
                    little analysis of the Prophet's mystical experiences and doctrines, except to say that
                    Tenskwatawa "adroitly caught up the mantle of the dying prophet, and assumed his sacred
                        office."6 As a romantic, Drake dealt in Faustian energies, bold
                    speeches, and cataclysmic reversals.
            John Frost's Thrilling Adventures Among the Indians (1856) provides
                    another romantic narrative. In his compendium of Indian stories of all variety and of questionable
                    authenticity, Frost offered chapters on both the Shawnee Prophet and his warrior brother.
                    Missionaries reported on the Prophet's numerous miracles of healing and foresight. The
                    story of Tecumseh involved a Kentucky captain employed by the British to survey central 
                        Ohio
                    . One night some starving Indians enter the surveyors' camp, where they join in
                    the surveyors' supper of roast bear; at one point a young warrior delivers the most
                    eloquent prayer of thanks ever heard by the whites. Years later the captain learns that the warrior
                    was none other than Tecumseh himself. True to legend,
                        he possessed all the courage, sagacity, and fortitude, for which the most distinguished
                            Indian chiefs have been celebrated; and more than this, he was always disinterested and true
                            to his word…. His watchful mind was ever on the alert, his enmity never
                            slumbered, and he was a stranger to personal fatigue.7
                  
                     As might be gathered, Frost often preferred a tall tale to the staid company of fact. But
                    few of his Indians manifested the romantic excellence of Tecumseh. Thrilling
                    Adventures instead dealt largely with bad Indians, whom Frost found revolting enough and whom
                    he recognized as an impediment to progress. Lest there be any doubt regarding a link between his
                    tales and the concerns of contemporary expansion, he prefaced Thrilling Adventures
                    with a plea to "reclaim" the Indian for civilization.
            If Tecumseh was lucky enough to die at the onset of American romanticism, he was equally lucky to die
                    before the flourishing of 
                  
                     4 Benjamin Drake, Life of Tecumseh and of his Brother the
                                Prophet; With a Historical Sketch of the Shawanoe Indians (1841; Cincinnati, 1858),
                            235. A similar but far less complete account appeared two years later in B. B.
                            Thatcher's Indian Biography (New York, 1843), 181-225.
                  
                     5 Drake, Life of Tecumseh, 234. In reality, the
                            greater part of armed Shawnee resistance still lay ahead.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 86. Tenskwatawa had apprenticed himself for a time to an elderly
                            shaman, although his performance in that office appears to have been anything but adroit.
                  
                     7 John Frost, Thrilling Adventures Among the Indians:
                                Comprising the Most Remarkable Personal Narratives of Events in the Early Indian Wars,
                                as Well as of Incidents in the Recent Indian Hostilities in Mexico and Texas
                            (Philadelphia, 1851), 185.
               
                     racial intolerance in the years after the Civil War. This mood
                    of racism amplified themes visible in Frost's Thrilling Adventures,
                    specifically, the need to reclaim the Indian and Indian land. But suddenly Americans had grown
                    impatient, and writers held that the Indian must surrender with deliberate speed.
            Several factors account for the new expansionist mood. First, the laying of transcontinental
                    telegraphs and railroads immediately opened the west to commercial exploitation. Indian wars no
                    longer needed to be fought on Indian terms.8 Second, the Civil War had shattered
                    many of the illusions that the nation might reach utopia through reform. Where reformers had once
                    hoped to bring about social progress, leaders instead cracked down on those standing in the
                    way—not only the moral offenders within American society but also the indigenous peoples
                    still outside.9 Finally, the postwar years witnessed a dramatic increase of
                    immigration from southern and eastern Europe. Afraid of losing social hegemony, the older immigrant
                    stock began to employ Darwinian theory to characterize themselves as the race best suited to rule.
                    If Italians and Poles were doomed to racial extinction, what future could there be for the American
                        Indian?10
            
            The most popular manifestations of the new mood were dime novels, those penny-dreadfuls that sprang
                    up during and after the Civil War. Consonant with America's westward expansion, the dime
                    novels celebrated the pioneer vanguard of Indian removal. The pioneer was a clear adaptation of
                    Cooper's Natty Bumppo, a man who synthesized white moral ideals with the Indian's
                    nature skills; but to allow for mass consumption, the dime novelists simplified the complexities
                    drawn by Cooper. The feats of the frontiersman became truly superhuman, while Cooper's
                    repertoire of Indian types narrowed to a single and unpleasant enemy. Indians became anachronistic,
                    often vicious, obstructionists. Finally, as historian Robert F. Berkhofer observes, "the
                    last battles with the Plains Indians after the Civil War did not harm sales or improve the images of
                    the Indians in dime novels."11
            
            The animus toward native Americans in this period carried through all levels of literature. Frontier
                    elegies that had prospered 
                  
                     8 Glenn Porter, The Rise of Big Business, 1860-1910
                            (Arlington Heights, Ill., 1973), 40-43.
                  
                     9 The best known example is Helen Jackson's A
                                Century of Dishonor (Boston, 1887). For a modern overview, see Robert Winston
                            Mardock, The Reformers and the American Indian (Columbia, Mo., 1971).
                  
                     10 John Higham, Strangers in the Land: Patterns of
                                American Nativism, 1860-1925 (New Brunswick, N.J., 1955), 149-57.
                  
                     11 Berkhofer, White Man's Indian, 99. See
                            Henry Nash Smith, Virgin Land: The American West as Symbol and Myth
                            (Cambridge, Mass., 1950), 59-70, 90-111, on the evolution of the western hero. The most
                            significant change was that later characters divested themselves of much of Natty
                            Bumppo's hostility to civilization. They became more politically acceptable and
                            less emotionally provocative.
               
                     before the war now yielded to contempt for savages who would
                    impede the growth of American civilization. One of the more comprehensive overviews of manifest
                    destiny, Frank Triplett's Conquering the Wilderness (1887), epitomizes
                    this Indian-hating tone. The Indian's style of warfare, Triplett reported,
                        is not the open combat of the Caucasian, but the midnight attack with all of its attendant
                            horrors or robbery, rapine and murder. Lacking the unyielding nerve and indomitable courage
                            of the superior race, he depends invariably on the sudden surprise… he is seen to
                            be filthy in person, speech and action; cowardly in combat; selfish in feeling, brutal in
                            mind, and false in everything.12
                  
                     Triplett's racial invective signaled more than the end of romanticism; it echoed
                    the Anglo-Saxonism which older elites were then directing against the new immigrants. Of equal
                    significance, it revealed the terms Americans would soon be using to describe Philippinos, Cubans,
                    and Nicaraguans.13 Back east, out west, and in foreign lands, the expanding
                    nation was taking up the "white man's burden" to impose cultural and
                    political domination upon other races.
            The white man's burden weighed heavily upon Tecumseh and the Shawnee
                    Prophet (1878) by Edward Eggleston and Lillie Eggleston Seeyle. Eggleston was one of the less
                    famous patrician historians in a century of such authors, and his writings typify the gradual
                    secularization of earlier religious faith in America as a millennial kingdom. The descendant of
                    old-stock immigrants, a man who had achieved some success as a Methodist minister, and an editor of
                    religious educational material, Eggleston had participated first-hand in the creation of Anglo-Saxon
                    cultural hegemony. His greatest success, however, came when he began to produce popular histories
                    depicting the growth of America as the unfolding of providence.14 His version of
                    events in the Old Northwest naturally shared this assumption.
            While Tecumseh and the Shawnee Prophet retained the respect which older romantics
                    had shown for Tecumseh the man, this respect was nonetheless qualified. "Tecumseh had the
                    pride, the energy, and the fortitude of his race," Eggleston and Seeyle reported.
                    "In intellect and humanity he was superior to them, but all their fierce antipathies were
                    in him."15 For them the salient feature was 
                  
                     12 Frank Triplett, Conquering the Wilderness: or New
                                Pictoral History of the Life and Times of the Pioneer Heroes and Heroines of
                            America (New York, 1889), 49.
                  
                     13 Interestingly enough, one of the conquerers of the wilderness
                            examined in greater depth here was William Walker, the would-be ruler of Nicaragua. Ibid., 667-705.
                  
                     14 For complete biographical information on Eggleston, see William
                            Randel, Edward Eggleston (New York, 1963). Lillie Eggleston Seeyle was his
                            daughter.
                  
                     15 Edward Eggleston and Lillie Eggleston Seeyle. Tecumseh
                                and the Shawnee Prophet: Including Sketches of George Rogers Clark, Simon Kenton,
                                William Henry Harrison, Cornstalk, Blackhoof, Bluejacket, the Shawnee Logan, and Others
                                Famous in the Frontier Wars of Tecumseh's Time (New York, 1878),
                        23-24.
               
                    
                    
                  TECUMSEH and THE PROPHET
                  
                  THIS DEPICTION REPRESENTS TYPICAL STEREOTYPES OF THE NATIVE
                                AMERICAN. BOTH FIGURES ARE DRAPED IN ROBES SYMBOLIC OF THE NORTHERN PLAINS; TECUMSEH IS EVEN ADORNED WITH A PLAINS INDIAN HEADDRESS.
                  Reproduced from John Frost, Thrilling Adventures Among the
                            Indians… (Philadelphia, 1851), 180.
               
                     less Tecumseh's Indian character than the inexplicable
                    presence of Anglo-Saxon qualities, the curiosity of this genetic anomaly. A second manifestation of
                    the Egglestons' racial attitudes was their failure to distinguish the Shawnee from other
                    tribes; they were merely a band of "arrogant pride and warlike ferocity,"16 and thus were presumably quite similar to the mounted Indians then struggling
                    on the Great Plains. Third, the authors discounted religious customs. In Tenskwatawa they found one
                    whose "main characteristics were cunning and a certain showy smartness," who
                    "was neither courageous, truthful, nor above cruelty."17
                    Finally, although certain of Tecumseh's virtues, Eggleston and Seeyle hastened to reassure
                    the reader that in the divine scheme of things his vision was unacceptable, for it "is not
                    desirable that a savage race… should possess a fertile country capable of supporting a
                    hundred times as many people in the comfort and enlightenment of civilization."18
            
            This faith in a movement toward white civilization was the chorus which united most nineteenth
                    century historians. It derived in part from the intellectual models employed. Prior to the 1890s,
                    the chief disciplines of the American university were theology and philosophy,19
                    each identifying a progression in which mankind emerged from sin, savagery, or ignorance into a
                    state of redemption and civilization.20 But while these disciplines hovered in
                    the abstract, the historian (and the early anthropologist) tried to anchor them to reality by
                    locating material evidence of progress. Historians therefore wrote with a teleology in mind. The
                    triumph of the divine kingdom corresponded with the appearance of farmhouses along the
                        Wabash and Tippecanoe rivers; the final unfolding of
                    the World Spirit lay in the triumph of socks and shoes. White-Indian history lent itself naturally
                    to this reading. Whether Indians represented some edenic past or a state of original sin, they were
                    inevitably to yield—as the child yielded to the man, as Canna yielded to the Hebrew, as
                    Satan yielded to Christ—to the Europeans, who brought with them reason, ethical maturity,
                    and Christian redemption. Early romantics like Drake and Cooper had tended, as romantics, to be
                    somewhat backward-looking and wistful in approach. 
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 23
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., 113.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., 326. Eggleston's views were not always consistent; despite
                            his evident endorsement of Indian removal, he denounced the 
                                United States
                             intervention in Cuba and throughout his life remained a liberal Republican
                            opposed to overseas expansion. See Randel, Edward Eggleston, 149.
                  
                     19 Lawrence Veysey, The Emergence of the American
                                University, 1890-1910 (Chicago, 1965), 21-56.
                  
                     20 In terms of philosophy, I have in mind the variants of Hegelianism
                            which included Josiah Royce; but nineteenth century American Christianity in general tended
                            toward the teleological.
               
                     But their immediate successors turned to the future. Changing
                    with their times, these later authors applied to the old teleology a pseudoscientific gloss;
                    Darwinian vocabulary and precepts took the course of history from the hands of the divinity and
                    placed it on the more secure ground of material science.21 Still the
                    inevitability of the Indian's passing remained an unquestioned tenet. And precisely because
                    the Indian was doomed, because his defeat had been foreordained, American civilization bore no
                    responsiblity but merely acted its appointed role.
            Bound to both national myths and national interests, the story of the doomed Indian lived for a long
                    time, especially in the pens of Boston gentry. Edward Channing's A History of
                        the 
                            United States
                        
                (1917) failed to mention that part of Shawnee history dealing with the
                    Prophet, but grew expansive over the topic of an Indian who possessed white virtues. As Channing
                    remarked, "Tecumseh was one of those rare Indians of whom there are not more than half a
                    dozen within the limits of American annals… He was opposing the march of human history,
                    but his efforts were praiseworthy and his success remarkable."22 But
                    there were even later holdouts. James Truslow Adams's The March of
                    Democracy (1932), that stalwart of so many family bookshelves, offered the same ambiguous
                    praise: "These two men, the finest perhaps that the savages developed in their history,
                    conceived the statesmanlike plan of reforming the Indians…."23 As long as American history remained the unfolding of the divine plan (and the opinion is
                    by no means dead), the case of Tecumseh would cause wonder at the sad, inscrutable logic of
                    providence.
            Although subsequent authors refined this notion of a secularized providence, they were not
                    necessarily more sophisticated in their understanding of native societies. Frederick Jackson Turner
                    was one of these. Historian of the American frontier, Turner in one sense continued the work of the
                    pioneers themselves. Just as they had removed the Indian from the western territories, so Turner
                    removed the Indian from the pages of history. Turner's celebrated thesis of the effect of
                    the frontier on national character holds that the movement westward encouraged individualism,
                    self-reliance, optimism, democracy, and a belief in progress. The Turner thesis conveniently ignored
                    the fact that western settlers were often ruthless and violent and bent on racial extermination.
                    Indeed, in his 1920 collection of essays, the entire discussion of the Shawnee resistance movement
                    consisted of the following sentence: "Tecumthe, 
                  
                     21 Higham, Strangers in the Land, 133-49.
                  
                     22 Edward Channing, A History of the 
                                        United States
                                    
                        : Vol. IV, Federalists and Republicans,
                            1789-1815 (New York, 1917), 442.
                  
                     23 James Truslow Adams, The March of Democracy, A History
                                of the 
                                    United States
                                : Vol. II, A Half Century of Expansion (New York, 1932), 76.
               
                    
                    
                  Courtesy of Indiana Historical Society
               
                     rendered desperate by the advance into his hunting grounds,
                    took up the hatchet, made wide-reaching alliances among the Indians, and turned to England for
                        protection."24 Thus, while Turner showed a keenness of insight into
                    many areas of national development, he also failed at times to move beyond the perspectives of the
                    pioneers themselves.
            Turner's indifference reflected the times. With the frontier closing, the Indian wars
                    fought, and the nation moving toward urban mass culture as a result of a half-century of industrial
                    growth, the question of indigenous peoples seemed as antiquated as Cotton Mather's periwig.
                    For the remaining tribes there was the Dawes Severalty Act of 1887, which arranged to break
                    reservation lands into private holdings with the purported goal of creating a class of yeomen
                    farmers. The racial assimilation that Thomas Jefferson and others had so long desired was now at
                        hand.25 Little wonder, then, that Turner ignored what seemed to be a
                    discarded social influence in his search for the origins of the emerging national character.
            But assimilation (1887-1934) proved more difficult than imagined. Inadequate federal resources,
                    indifferently applied, as well as the stubborn persistence of preindustrial culture, hindered the
                    birth of these would-be yeomen. Too often, reservation lands fell prey to white investors, and the
                    reservation Indians found themselves in a decline as wretched as that suffered by the Seneca and
                    Shawnee one hundred years earlier. This process of "assimilation through
                    attrition" ended temporarily in 1934 when Congress, following the leadership of an
                    idealistic Indian Affairs commissioner named John J. Collier, passed the Indian Reorganization Act
                    (IRA). The IRA legitimized tribal status, incorporated tribal lands as communal property, upheld
                    tribal law, and allocated money to repurchase lost reservation lands and move the tribes toward
                    self-sufficiency. Reorganization probably saved Native American culture from extinction; like other
                    policies of the New Deal, it has survived, somewhat diluted, to the present day, despite repudiation
                    by the more socially conservative administrations which followed.26
            
            The changes of Indian policy since the Dawes Act had only limited effect on the ethnohistories which
                    immediately followed 
                  
                     24 Frederick Jackson Turner, "The Middle West," in
                                The Frontier in American History (New York, 1920), 126-56, quotation
                            p. 134.
                  
                     25 For a discussion of plans to assimilate the American Indian during
                            the age of Jefferson, see Bernard W. Sheehan, Seeds of Extinction: Jeffersonian
                                Philanthropy and the American Indian (Chapel Hill, N.C., 1973).
                  
                     26 The many reversals of Indian policy since the Dawes Act are
                            chronicled in Kenneth R. Philp, John Collier's Crusade for Indian
                                Reform, 1920-1954 (Tucson, Ariz., 1977); and Donald L. Fixico, Termination and Relocation: Federal Indian Policy, 1945-1960 (Albuquerque, N.
                            Mex., 1986). The renewed interest in Indian culture within the American intellectual
                            community was part of its larger fascination with primitive society as a testing ground for
                            the role of culture in determining human behavior. During the 1910s and 1920s biological
                            theoreticians such as Francis.
               
                     Turner. Some chose to perpetuate the Turnerian tradition. Ray
                    Allen Billington, Turner's academic grandchild and chief apostle, was far more concerned
                    with fleshing out details of the master's vision than with deciphering obscure policy wars.
                    His immensely popular Westward Expansion (1949, now in its fifth edition)
                    portrayed the Americas as virgin land, in which Indians survived only long enough to do battle and
                    perish. Regarding the resistance of the Shawnees, Billington claimed that Tecumseh used his
                    brother's religious movement as a means to foster the military confederacy, and that
                    Tenskwatawa acted under the instruction of Canadian trappers.27 Although
                    Billington certainly felt the connection between frontier history and his own time (the closing
                    chapter of Westward Expansion is a virtual hymn to the New Deal), the sense of
                    academic mission which drove him to write thirteen frontier histories and a biography of Turner
                    clearly distracted him from the matter of Indian cultures, both past and present. One gathers that
                    what Billington called the post-frontier era of "closed-space existence" was to be
                    a white man's era.28
            
            Another reaction to Turner during this post-frontier period was the retreat to romanticism. Ever
                    dominant in the popular imagination, the romantic influence prevailed in such pieces of juvenile
                    literature as Augusta Stevenson's Tecumseh, Shawnee Boy (1955) and Anne
                    Schraffs Tecumseh (1979). The romantic savage also featured prominently in Allan
                    Eckert's The Frontiersman: A Narrative (1967), a historical novel with
                    the style and merciless conventionality of James Michener. The Frontiersman drew
                    heavily upon Drake and Eggleston/Seeyle and even on the dubious Frost for its information; it forced
                    Tecumseh once more through forbidden trysts and campfire oration. Beneath its historical trappings,
                        The Frontiersman was the retelling of the Natty Bumppo 
                  Galton and Charles B. Davenport had dominated the "nature-nurture"
                            controversy with their accounts of superior and inferior races. In the nativist mood of
                            these decades these concepts held sway; both in their original form and through popularizers
                            such as Madison Grant, they enjoyed a wide currency among the American people. But in the
                            1920s Franz Boaz retaliated with the paradigm of cultural anthropology. In his wake came
                            Margaret Mead and her mythologized version of the Samoans; Ruth Benedict and her study of
                            the Zuni; and John Collier, who succeeded in translating these ideas into practical policy.
                            Much of the ferment begun under Boaz continued, through various cultural enthusiasts, on to
                            the Indian political activists and the New Indian History school of the present day. For a
                            discussion of the origins of cultural anthropology and the quest for the primitive, see
                            Derek Freeman, Margaret Mead and Samoa: The Making and Unmaking of an
                                Anthropological Myth (Cambridge, Mass., 1983), 1-109; and Hamilton Cravens, The Triumph of Evolution (Philadelphia, 1978), 89-120.
                  
                     27
                            Contemporary Authors: A Bio-Bibliographical Guide to Current
                            Writers… (New Revision Series), see under "Billington, Ray Allen,
                            1903-1981." Billington received his Ph.D. from Wisconsin in 1926 and later studied
                            at Harvard under Turner devotee Frederick Merk. Regarding comments on Tecumseh, see
                            Billington, Westward Expansion, 275.
                  
                     28 Billington, Westward Expansion, 755.
               
                     story (here girded around the backwoodsman Simon Kenton); its
                    popularity offers proof that during a decade of radicalism there remained a strong market for
                    traditional values.29 One final sampler of the literary mythology may be found
                    at the conclusion of Carl F. Klinck's Tecumseh: Fact and Fiction in Early
                        Records (1961). A collection of original and secondary sources relating to Tecumseh history
                    (26 of the 140 passages come from Drake), the book includes a sample of poems on the Ohio
                    River's fallen son, including a passage from that interminable American epic, The Fredoniad.
               30
            
            The valedictorian of this popular school was Glenn Tucker, whose Tecumseh: Vision of
                        Glory (1956) revived the image of Tecumseh as the Indian Pericles. Tucker had studied
                    literature at Columbia University before serving as an infantry captain in World War I; he worked
                    for most of his life as a correspondent and advertiser, and only upon retirement in the 1950s did he
                    begin to produce a series of battle histories which included High Tide at
                    Gettysburg (1958) and Chickamauga (1961). His professional creed was
                    appropriately rough-and-ready: "Look with suspicion on much interpretive history,"
                    he cautioned, for history "should be an unbiased recital of the facts."31
            
            Not surprisingly, Tucker's biography is highly interpretive, presenting an Indian
                    romanticized even beyond the standards of the previous century. It perpetuates such apocryphal tales
                    as young Tecumseh and Daniel Boone becoming blood brothers, although the two apparently never met,
                    and portrays in astonishing and improbable detail the Indian's courtship of the white
                    settler Rebecca Galloway. Tucker revealed Tecumseh's preference for Hamlet and observed that Rebecca "read him enough history to enable him to talk
                    familiarly about Alexander the Great."32 Although Tucker reviewed much
                    useful information about the Prophet's religious conversion, he nonetheless concluded that
                    the Prophet's religious code was secretly devised by Tecumseh himself.
            
               Tecumseh: Vision of Glory is an exciting and highly readable work; the prose,
                    particularly the more reflective passages, reminds one of Cooper. But the reader suspects that after
                    the Great War, Tucker transferred to the armchair infantry, where he set about idealizing those
                    warriors whose daring and individualism contrasted with the corporate monotony of midcentury
                    America.
            
               
                  29 In the denouement of The Frontiersman (Boston, 1967),
                        Kenton identifies another Indian body as Tecumseh's, thus sparing the fallen warrior
                        the indignity of being carved up for souvenirs.
               
                  30 Richard Emmons, "The Fredoniad," in Carl F. Klinck,
                        ed., Tecumseh: Fact and Fiction in Early Records (Englewood Cliffs, N.J.,
                        1961), 221-31. This four-volume poem dealing with the War of 1812 originally appeared in 1827.
               
                  31
                        Contemporary Authors: A Bio-Bibliography Guide to Current Authors and Their
                        Works (First Revision), see under "Tucker, Glenn (Irving), 1892-."
               
                  32 Tucker, Tecumseh, 79.
            
            
            A third and more overtly political reaction to Turner appeared two years later. Alvin M.
                    Josephy's The Patriot Chiefs (1958) chronicled nine Indian resistance
                    movements, from the league of Hiawatha to the final collapse under Chief Joseph. Alvin
                    Josephy's innovation was to establish parallels between past Indian struggles, the
                    contemporary Indian rights movements, and the Third World nationalism which blossomed after World
                    War II. The struggle for liberation, he implied, had been here at home all along, concealed in
                    American histories and ignored in the present day. Of all the ideas current in the post-frontier
                    period, it was this which would prove most influential among the next generation of ethnohistorians.
            Like Tucker, Josephy was not a professional historian. He was, however, far more involved than Tucker
                    in the realities of Indian affairs; his insight into the past came from decades of defending liberal
                    social policy against conservative retrenchment. After the death of Franklin D. Roosevelt, the major
                    issue concerning Native Americans was the effort to reverse Collier's program of federal
                    sponsorship and to insist once more on assimilation. Roosevelt's first two successors were
                    staunch assimilationists who wanted Indians to enjoy the privilege of being "self-made
                    men." World War II itself had brought new levels of prosperity and employment, neutralizing
                    threats of political unrest which had originally inspired federal sponsorship of such groups as
                    labor, agriculture, artists, intellectuals, and through an umbrella effect, Indians. With a more
                    contented populace, the cost of aid to the reservations suddenly began to feel burdensome. The
                    postwar years were also a time of more vigorous assertion in world affairs, a time when bringing the
                    "American way" to developing foreign countries became a national priority;
                    inevitably, many urged this same policy for heterogeneous groups within the nation itself. In its
                    worst sense, this quest for internal homogeneity blended into McCarthyism, for it became dangerous
                    to espouse such causes as reservation autonomy: tribal property, after all, might be taken as
                        communism.33 But when tracing the immediate causes of neo-assimilation, it
                    is important to remember that the Indian community was itself divided over the issue. Indians had
                    served in large numbers during World War II and had gained new exposure to whites; as the nation
                    entered a period of consensus and conservatism, many Native Americans expressed a desire to join
                    that elusive current known as the mainstream. All of these factors combined to reverse the course
                    established by the IRA.34
            
            
               
                  33 In fact, the reservations were a type of communism, although hardly
                        with the ramifications imagined by the McCarthyites.
               
                  34 Regarding the postwar assimilationist trends, see Philp, John Collier's Crusade, 214-36; Fixico, Termination and
                            Relocation, 3-20.
            
            
            Josephy had worked at a variety of jobs, including Roosevelt's Office of War Information,
                    1942-1943, before becoming involved in Indian politics and eventually authoring the 1969 Report on Indian Affairs for Richard M. Nixon. This report studied the question of
                    terminating federal wardship and support for the tribes. Liberals like Josephy denounced the idea as
                    a scheme to break up Indian culture and expropriate Indian land; other less altruistic whites
                    opposed termination for fear that the financial burden of maintaining the reservations would fall to
                    the states. Nixon—who, like Roosevelt, was facing a mood of social
                    unrest—eventually decided to maintain sponsorship.35
            
            Whereas Tucker, an Eisenhower Republican, celebrated the romantic struggle of the individual,
                    Josephy, a New Deal Democrat, stressed respect for emerging minorities. The Patriot
                        Chiefs minimized questions of religious revitalization; it stripped Tecumseh of his mythic
                    qualities and instead stressed his political leadership among a people threatened by aggressive and
                    affluent neighbors. In this light, the Shawnees came to resemble the Cuban, Egyptian, and Indonesian
                    nationalists of the late 1950s. Josephy remarked: 
                        In modern days, world opinion which endorses the right of self-determination of peoples might
                            have supported before the United Nations his dream of a country of, by and for the Indians.
                            But the crisis he faced came too early in history, and he failed.36
                  
                     Josephy spoke disapprovingly of American aggression against the Indians. Instead of
                    colonialism, he favored the very programs that many American liberals were then advocating for
                    emerging Third World nations; "They need—and most welcome—the
                    material benefits of modern American civilization, its education, medicine, technical training, and
                    planning and development of Indian resources."37 That is to say,
                    Josephy called for aid programs for Indians along the lines of the Peace Corps and the Alliance for
                    Progress.
            The late 1960s witnessed a minor revolution in the New Indian or ethnohistorical school, a movement
                    which demanded an Indian past on Indian terms. In part, this search for the other forefathers
                    reflected exhaustion of the major political narrative school. But it related to deeper social
                    upheavals as well. American Indians had added their voice to the decade of unrest in 1969 when a
                    small band seized Alcatraz Island in order to dramatize Indian 
                  
                     35
                            Contemporary Authors (New Revision Series), see under "Josephy,
                            Alvin M., Jr., 1914-."
                  
                     36 Alvin M. Josephy, Jr., The Patriot Chiefs: A Chronicle
                                of American Indian Resistance (Middlesex, Eng., 1961), 132.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., 344.
               
                     grievances. In 1973 members of the American Indian Movement
                    (AIM) barracaded themselves and eleven hostages in a reservation trading post at Wounded Knee, South
                    Dakota, the site of the infamous 1890 massacre.38 On the literary front, there
                    appeared Vine Deloria's polemical Custer Died for Your Sins (1969) and
                    Dee Brown's Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee (1970), a book which remains
                    the most arresting of the western Indian narratives and which opens, significantly enough, with a
                    quote from Tecumseh himself.39 Brown and Deloria had antecedents in both popular
                    and academic writing (including Josephy, to whom Indian radicalism owed much); but a people finding
                    themselves in the present feel a special urgency to locate themselves in the past.
            It is no great step to see the New Indian school as a cousin to the New Left. Critical of what they
                    considered a decade of consensus attitudes, New Left historians rewrote the American past by
                    exploring the role of special interests, class conflict, and elite cultural dominance. For these
                    ideas the subject of Indian removal was ready-made. The relationship between the two schools was
                    particularly clear in Michael Paul Rogin's Fathers and Children: Andrew
                        Jackson and the Subjugation of the American Indian (1975). Combining Marxist analysis with
                    Erik Erikson's style of psychoanalytic biography, Rogin redefined Jackson as an archetype
                    of the frontier entrepreneur who rose to economic and political success through the process of
                    Indian removal. Though concerned primarily with Jackson and the southern tribes, Rogin drew
                    parallels with William Henry Harrison and the Shawnee Indian resistance.
            Rogin based his synthesis of psychoanalysis and economic conflict on the assertion that the
                    "evolution of societies from savagery to civilization was identical to the evolution of
                    individual man."40 Jacksonian democracy constituted society's
                    equivalent of an oral-aggressive phase in personality development. By moving toward an
                    individualistic, legal, and rational mode of life, Jacksonian America attained a stage of growth in
                    which collectively it was able to suppress the libidinous pleasure principle. Indians reminded the
                    Jacksonians of what they had lost. The Jacksonians resented the original Americans for their seeming
                    oneness with primeval nature, with the idyllic womb state, and despised them for practicing an
                    apparent irrationality which the economic liberals of this era believed they had suppressed. Indians
                    were there- 
                  
                     38 Stephen Cornell, The Return of the Native American
                                Indian Political Resurgence (New York, 1975), 6.
                  
                     39 Vine Deloria, Jr., Custer Died for Your Sins: An
                                Indian Manifesto (New York, 1969); Dee Brown, Bury My Heart at Wounded
                                Knee: An Indian History of the American West (New York, 1970).
                  
                     40 Michael Paul Rogin, Fathers and Children: Andrew
                                Jackson and the Subjugation of the American Indian (New York, 1975), 6.
               
                     fore children, and the task of their white fathers was to raise
                    them to maturity. But because white society paralleled in its psychological maturity the oral phrase
                    of personality growth, it resented the "otherness" of the Indians and sought to
                    destroy that "otherness" by possessing and consuming it. Hence the enactment of
                    this parent-child relationship was the removal of the native and the incorporation of his land into
                    a market economy.41 In Rogin's view, these measures were the key to
                    pre-Civil War America: sale of the southern Shawnee lands, and subsequent expulsion of the Creeks,
                    Cherokees, and Choctaws, permitted the expansion of commercial cotton farming, which in turn
                    provided the capital for America's conversion to the new economy. Furthermore, men like
                    Jackson and Harrison learned the personal advantages of Indian wars. Indian resistance movements
                    were at once Oedipal and anticapital, so that leadership in suppressing those movements made one the
                    father figure of one's own society. And through their control of Indian removal, which for
                    the moment bound together sectional interests, the new fathers were able to lead national
                        expansion.42
            
            If the impetus for ethnohistory was partly political, the methods it chose came from the social
                    sciences. As James Axtell has written, the field stresses culture study; unlike traditional
                    anthropology, it focuses not so much on static cultural patterns, but rather on cultural change; and
                    it supplements reliance on written 
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., 251-79.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., 165-205. Twentieth century trends are clear enough in the
                            textbooks. Often the focus has been what emphasis to place on the actions of William Henry
                            Harrison. Earlier authors, although not necessarily enamored of Indian cultures, nonetheless
                            manifested a Progressive skepticism about the doings of their frontier forefathers. No
                            reader should miss Henry Adams's dry account of Harrison in History of
                                the 
                                    United States
                                 of America during the First Administration of James Madison; Vol. VI,
                                1809-1813 (New York, 1890), 67-112. Samuel Eliot Morison's
                            and Henry Steel Commager's The Growth of the American Republic
                            (New York, 1930) observed that Harrison was no benign white father and dwelt for two rather
                            complimentary pages on Tecumseh and his brother, "two noble red men
                            indeed" (p. 412). The same held true for John D. Hicks's popular volume,
                                The Federal Union: A History of the 
                                    United States
                                 to 1865 (Cambridge, 1937). Reflecting the author's skeptical
                            attitude, this work dealt with the matter of Tecumseh at some length and attributed the
                            whole conflict to the misdeeds of white settlers and to the belligerence of Harrison (pp.
                            281-85). But by 1953, Henry Bamford Parkes's The 
                                    United States
                                 of America: A History (New York) could report that "Harrison,
                            Governor of the Indian Territory, was attacked by Indians at Tippecanoe" without
                            feeling obliged to mention that Harrison was at that moment on a march of intimidation
                            against the Shawnee (p. 163). Similarly, Thomas Bailey, in The American
                                Pageant: A History of the Republic (Boston, 1956), observed that "the
                            Indians, with insatiable tomahawks, were once more ravaging the frontier north of the Ohio
                            River" (p. 202). Bailey inaccurately reported that Tecumseh and the Prophet were
                            twins: Indians were now losing even their genealogies. In 1968 Oscar Handlin's America: A History (New York) returned the blame to Harrison, indicting
                            him for belligerence and double-dealing (p. 292). America: A History of the
                                People (Chicago, 1971), by Richard B. Morris, William Greenleaf, and Robert H.
                            Ferrell, also confronted Harrison's role in stirring up the waters, although
                            observing that he acted under the illusion of British-Indian complicity (p. 177). In thirty
                            years, the mainstream texts had gone from conflict to consensus and back again.
               
                     documents with attention toward music, folklore, artifacts, and
                    a multitude of other ethnic sources. Furthermore, ethnohistorians obey the historian's duty
                    to a literary production to minimize technical vocabulary without sacrificing profundity of
                    analysis. The New Indian school predictably shies from the polemical style of Deloria, preferring
                    instead that the reader infer moral criticism from welldrawn portraits of the past. The
                    ethnohistorian's oath is to be stylistically strong, anthropologically awake, and morally
                        subtle.43
            
            But it was the social sciences which first wedded themselves to history, and not the reverse. One
                    notable breakthrough was anthropologist Anthony F. C. Wallace's The Death and
                        Rebirth of the Seneca (1970). Early in his career Wallace had published King
                        of the Delawares: Teedyuscung, 1700-1763 (1952),44 an astute if
                    unsurprising narrative. But for the next twenty years Wallace pursued a study of Indian religions,
                    cultures, and revitalization and psychoanalytic theory. As the culmination of these endeavors, Death and Rebirth shifted the emphasis from alliances and warpaths to the religion
                    and psyche of the Iroquois. After their near-total defeat in the American Revolution, the Iroquois
                    turned to revitalization under the prophet Handsome Lake. Wallace mapped out a cultural pattern that
                    would appear again and again in nineteenth century history: white intrusion pushes native culture to
                    the point of collapse; a prophet receives divine messages in a trance; through him the gods demand a
                    return to the old Indian religion; they further demand the foreswearing of white practices,
                    especially drinking, but the way of life they prescribe is in reality syncretic and may demand more
                    agriculture and permanent settlement than had been the Indian custom. Adoption of the new religion
                    creates a power struggle within the tribe (for some will be less inclined to change than others,
                    particularly if the prophet-figure threatens their own leadership roles), and when prophecy fails
                    the divine messenger may demand witch-hunts to clear the path of righteousness. In all these
                    elements, the Handsome Lake movement prefigured Tenskwatawa and the case of Shawnee
                        revitalization.45
            
            The methods of the New Indian History led to the first bonafide revision of the story of Tecumseh
                    since Drake's initial biography. In The Shawnee Prophet (1983) and its
                    companion volume Tecumseh and the Quest for Indian Leadership (1984), R. David
                    Edmunds 
                  
                     43 James Axtell, "Ethnohistory: A Historian's
                            Viewpoint," in The European and the Indian: Essays in the Ethnohistory
                                of Colonial North America (New York, 1981), 3-15.
                  
                     44 Anthony F. C. Wallace, King of the Delawares:
                                Teedyuscung, 1700-1763 (Philadelphia, 1979).
                  
                     45 Anthony F. C. Wallace, The Death and Rebirth of the
                                Seneca (New York, 1970). A good exposition of Wallace's theoretical
                            framework appears in Anthony F. C. Wallace, "Revitalization Movements,"
                                American Anthropologist, LVI (April, 1956), 264-81.
               
                     argues that "Tenskwatawa, the Shawnee Prophet, was the
                    leading figure in the Indians' efforts to resist the Americans,"46 and that Tecumseh only assumed command when the War of 1812 demanded European-style
                    military skills instead of responses that were more characteristically Indian. If this revision
                    lacks the romance of earlier works, it nonetheless credits the two brothers with an inborn talent
                    for leadership unassisted by settlers, Shakers, Moravian missionaries, or Canadian fur
                    trappers—something the romanticizers were often reluctant to admit.
            Edmunds traced the same pattern of cultural decline and rebirth that Wallace had found among the
                    Seneca. The Shawnee suffered tribal dispersal, lost contact with a way of life based on expansive
                    hunting territories, and soon succumbed to alcoholism and land sales. The man who led Shawnee
                    revitalization was, like Handsome Lake, a notorious drinker whose vision of cultural rebirth grew
                    out of the need for personal redemption. Both prophets had been personal failures. Both had suffered
                    in the shadow of relatives more gifted in secular affairs. And both had passed through
                    disappointments immediately prior to the moment of divine contact: Handsome Lake had returned from a
                    drinking spree to find himself humiliated in a Seneca community temporarily under the sway of Quaker
                    missionaries; Tenskwatawa had apprenticed himself as a medicine man, only to be discredited by an
                    epidemic. The two prophets offered a gospel of syncretism, a blend of Indian religion and white
                    culture. Finally, their new cults reflected organizational tensions within the tribes, as they
                    redirected power away from older shamans and political leaders and toward individuals who had
                    hitherto held secondary or even marginal status.47
            
            But Edmunds draws revealing differences as well. Whereas Handsome Lake had accommodated white culture
                    through such points of doctrine as sedentary lifestyle, European-style farming technology, and a
                    tolerance for Christianity, Tenskwatawa demanded Indian culture in a less diluted form. White
                    technology and clothing, European food (especially bread),48 white religion, and
                    white drink all became taboo. Of equal significance, Tenskwatawa adopted highly selective attitudes
                    toward whites themselves. The British and the French were acceptable, but the Americans, he
                    declared, had been created by a demon for evil purposes and were to be avoided at all costs. The
                    difference between the Seneca readiness to incorporate and the Shawnee insularity undoubtedly sprang
                    from the political fortunes of the two tribes. The Seneca were per- 
                  
                     46 R. David Edmunds, The Shawnee Prophet (Lincoln,
                            Nebr., 1983), x.
                  
                     47
                            Ibid., 28-66.
                  
                     48 This point is a revealing one, since it suggests a rejection both
                            of European economy and religion, wherein the doctrine of transubstantiation links bread
                            with the divinity.
               
                     manently broken by the time of Handsome Lake's
                    visions; they existed as pockets of Indian society in a land of white development. Since they had
                    lost hope of reconquest or tribal expansion, their revitalization depended on modernizing their
                    secular practices while retaining the old Indian cosmology and religion. The Shawnees, however,
                    lived on the frontier's edge, where hope for the ancient freedoms remained alive. Until the
                    disasters of 1811-1813 it must have seemed that such autonomy was still possible.
                    Tenskwatawa's socially and religiously fundamentalist doctrine reflected the
                    Shawnees' surviving military power. Their prophet simply had fewer compromises to make.
            Why then did Tecumseh become the principal character of so many histories? Edmunds contends that
                    white scrutiny focused on Tecumseh because he acted in a way more agreeable to white values; his
                    "attempts at political and military unification seemed logical to both the British and the
                    Americans, for it is what they would have done in his place."49
                    Furthermore, he was dashing and eloquent, a handsomely framed warrior who, even without the blarney,
                    surpassed in force of personality the liberal expansionists who defeated him. The Prophet, to the
                    contrary, was fat, disfigured, and unsuitable for romance.50 Thus, despite the
                    fact that Tenskwatawa maintained a degree of tribal leadership after the Thames battle and was
                    integral in leading many of the Shawnees to their Kansas reservation, it was his brother who
                    remained the object of public attention.
            The most recent volume of Tecumseh scholarship returns to the traditional political and military
                    narrative. Instead of continuing the anthropological inquiry of Wallace and Edmunds, John
                    Sugden's Tecumseh's Last Stand (1985) reviews events surrounding
                    the Battle of the Thames, with an emphasis on its lesser-known British military aspects. Sugden
                    devotes particular attention to the command of Major General Henry Proctor, the British officer who
                    led the campaign against Harrison and whose untimely retreat left the Shawnees unsupported in their
                    last battle.51 But if this new traditionalism fails to excite, Tecumseh's Last Stand also contains material of more compelling interest. Sugden
                    devotes a quarter of the text and a lengthy appendix to exploring the legends surrounding the death
                    of Tecumseh and the location of his remains. Although the facts of these matters are of course lost
                    to history, Sugden's analysis underscores two major points. First, the eyewitness accounts
                    were conflicting and almost wholly tendentious. 
                  
                     49 Edmunds, Tecumseh, 224.
                  
                     50 He had accidentally put out one of his eyes with an arrow. See
                            Edmunds, Shawnee Prophet, 30.
                  
                     51 Proctor was subsequently censured and court-martialed. See John
                            Sugden, Tecumseh's Last Stand (Norman, Okla., 1985),
                        183-86.
               
                     White accounts acted as handmaidens to political careers or
                    personal reputations, of which Richard Johnson's was only the most famous. Furthermore,
                    those testimonies tended to change over time. Indian accounts, to the contrary, have spirited the
                    dying Tecumseh from the battlefield, or have even allowed him to escape altogether, retiring him to
                    the same secluded immortality as King Arthur.52 Of equal importance,
                    Sugden's collection of diverse testimony suggests the importance of retaining apocrypha as
                    a part of American culture. In its pursuit of the internal dynamics of Indian society, the New
                    Indian school tends to avoid the folkloric aspects that for centuries have formed the
                    white's store of knowledge on the subject.53
            
            The direction of biographical study on Tecumseh thus reflects the main contours of Indian history.
                    The era of national growth and expansion first tempted its authors to romanticize as arcadians the
                    native people receding before them. As national expansion accelerated, those sentiments yielded to
                    impatience, until the Indian, removed as a threat, was largely forgotten. Only in the aftermath of
                    this term of burgeoning American culture have historians returned to search for an understanding
                    which reconciles the etic, the view of whites standing outside that society, to
                    the emic, the perceptions and assumptions internal to the Indian cultures. But the
                    persistence of concern over these affairs is perhaps the most revealing fact. The manifestos of
                    progress-now as much as in the time of the iron horse-have always promised a better life, a more
                    equitable world, a liberation from toil and conflict. The failure of this utopia to appear returns
                    the historian to men like Tecumseh, angry voices in a yet-unsanctified past.
            
               
                  52
                        Ibid., 136-220.
               
                  53 Historians still need to explore the idea that North American Indians,
                        even after their most celebrated military losses, maintained a day-to-day resistance through
                        such methods as the perpetuation of alternate histories. The obvious model would be James
                        Scott's Weapons of the Weak: Everyday Forms of Peasant Resistance
                        (New Haven, Conn., 1985).
            
         
         
         
            Coming of Age: Some Thoughts upon American Indian History
            
                    R. David Edmunds
                    *
                
            In late August, 1967, when I first enrolled in the graduate history program at the University of
                    Oklahoma, I was greeted by a professor of European history who inquired about my research interests.
                    When I rather naively replied that I had written an M.A. thesis upon the history of the Kickapoo
                    Indians in Illinois and that I hoped to continue to study and conduct research upon the tribes of
                    the Old Northwest, he replied, "Oh God! Not another cowboys and Indians buff!" Two
                    decades later Terry Rugeley's perceptive survey of the historiography of Tecumseh and the
                    Indian resistance movement, published in this issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                    History, reflects both the many changes that have taken place in the general field of Native
                    American, or Indian, history since that time and the field's emerging (if sometimes
                    begrudged) recognition as a vital part of American history.
            During the 1960s most American Indian historians were primarily western historians with a particular
                    interest in Indians. Many graduate history programs offered advanced degrees with specializations in
                    western or frontier history, but there were no Ph.D. programs offering specific fields in Indian or
                    Native American history. For example, the University of Oklahoma, with a rich tradition in western
                    history, a large Indian population in the state, and a university press famous for its Civilization of the American Indian series, did not offer a field in Indian history within
                    the history department's Ph.D. program until the 1970s. Indeed, prior to 1970, almost all
                    the scholarship that focused upon Indian history was produced by historians who had received little
                    or no formal course work in the field.
            
               
                  * R. David Edmunds is professor of history, Indiana University,
                        Bloomington. He is author of numerous books and articles including The Potawatomis:
                            Keepers of the Fire (1978); The Shawnee Prophet (1983); and Tucumseh and the Quest for Indian Leadership (1984).
               INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXV (December, 1989). ©1989, Trustees of Indiana
                        University. 
            
            
            Much of this scholarship was well researched and well written but rather limited in focus. Many of
                    the historians writing in the 1950s and early 1960s concentrated their efforts upon the development
                    and implementation of federal Indian policy rather than focusing upon the particular perspectives of
                    the Indian tribes. Basing their research upon the reports of Indian agents and other functionaries,
                    these scholars carefully delineated the formulation of federal Indian policy, but their writings
                    probably revealed more about those whites who interacted with the tribespeople than about the
                    Indians themselves. Moreover, in much of this scholarship Indian people were portrayed as the
                    recipients of government action (which they sometimes were), but there was little effort to analyze
                    Indian actions or reactions from the Indians' perspectives. I would not suggest that such
                    work was not sound, for many scholars still consult these monographs for well-organized, basic,
                    factual information regarding Indian policy and its impact upon these tribes, but I would argue that
                    these studies provided few insights into the evolution of tribal culture during the post-contact
                        period.1 Other volumes written during this time continued to focus upon
                    Indian-white military encounters, especially the warfare occurring on the Great Plains and in the
                    desert Southwest. Characterized by vivid, narrative prose, these accounts often retold familiar, if
                    exciting, incidents (the Apache wars, the Custer campaign, etc.), but they failed to contribute to
                    our understanding of tribal culture.2
            
            As Rugeley indicates in his essay, during the 1960s much began to change. Reflecting the academic
                    community's increased awareness of the contributions of minority groups to the historical
                    development of the 
                        United States
                    , many historians abandoned the "consensus" interpretations of earlier
                    decades and argued that the culture of the modern 
                        United States
                     was not a well-blended bouillon into which minority cultures had smoothly melted but
                    more resembled an ethnic stew or "hash" in which all racial and ethnic groups had
                    been markedly flavored by the predominant culture but in which they had maintained their own
                    separate identities and characteristics.
            Political conditions in the 
                        United States
                     also contributed to the change. Following the example of the black civil rights
                    movement, younger, more militant Native American leaders emerged from the urban Indian communities,
                    and the catchphrase "Red 
                  
                     1 See, for example, Francis Paul Prucha, American Indian
                                Policy in the Formative Years: The Indian Trade and Intercourse Acts, 1780-1834
                            (Cambridge, Mass., 1962). This excellently researched and well-written monograph still
                            remains the standard work upon this subject, but as the title implies, the focus is upon
                            federal policy, not Indians.
                  
                     2 See Ralph Andrist, The Long Death: The Last Days of the
                                Plains Indians (New York, 1964).
               
                     Power" was added to the growing lexicon of civil
                    rights rhetoric. Meanwhile, mired in the agony of Vietnam, Americans who opposed the war found it
                    easy to draw similarities between what they interpreted as modern American imperialism in southeast
                    Asia and earlier usurpation of Indian lands in the West. Indeed, the G.I. term "Indian
                    Country," commonly applied to those parts of the Vietnamese countryside held by the Viet
                    Cong, also reflected the soldiers' appreciation of the parallels. Historians who opposed
                    the conflict also utilized such parallels and attempted to reinterpret the past record of
                    Indian-white relations from a more critical perspective. In some instances, such as Cecil
                    Eby's "That Disgraceful Affair": The Black Hawk War,
                    which presented the Black Hawk war in an obvious Vietnamese framework, these similarities are
                    overdrawn. The predominant culture's bleak record of interaction with tribal people,
                    however, provided ample opportunity for such an interpretation, and an American public plagued by
                    self-doubts over the country's foreign policy readily accepted the new, more critical,
                    interpretation of their country's past.3 It is not surprising that Dee
                    Brown's Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee, while not very good history,
                    struck a responsive chord and climbed the best seller list, while the guilt-ridden implications in
                    the clever title of Vine Deloria's best selling Custer Died for Your Sins
                    also attracted a wide audience.4
            
            By the early 1970s Indians were "in," and everyone was jumping on the buckskin
                    bandwagon. History departments across the 
                        United States
                     rushed to add courses in Indian or Native American history, and Native American or
                    American Indian programs or departments sprung up at institutions across the American West. Faced
                    with a contracting job market, many American historians, western and otherwise, marketed themselves
                    as "Indian historians" and ventured into the classroom, eager to grab their piece
                    of the new academic turf. Although many of these instructors were well intentioned, some were
                    woefully lacking in their preparation. (I remember one former European historian who already had
                    brought his new Native American history class to their midterm exams and who asked me if the Shawnee
                    Prophet had organized and participated in the 1890 Ghost Dance movement.) Moreover, instructors
                    selecting reading materials for their new Indian history classes found such texts in short supply.
                    Many instructors utilized William T. Hagan's American Indians, a good but
                    brief survey of Indian-white relations within the 
                        United States
                    ; Alvin M. Josephy's The Patriot Chiefs: A Chronicle of Native
                        American Resistance;
                    
                  
                     3 Cecil Eby, "That Disgraceful Affair":
                                The Black Hawk War (New York, 1973).
                  
                     4 Dee Brown, Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee: An Indian
                                History of the American West (New York, 1970); Vine Deloria, Jr., Custer Died for Your Sins: An Indian Manifesto (New York, 1969).
               
                     or Francis Paul Prucha's The Indian in
                        American History, a reader containing previously published essays focusing on the
                    interaction of Indian and non-Indian Americans.5 All of these works possessed
                    considerable merit, but the need for a broader selection of reading materials continued. Even the
                    publication of Angie Debo's A History of the Indians of the 
                            United States
                        
                failed to remedy the problem. Although the volume reflected the perspectives
                    of an author who had spent her life studying the tribes of Oklahoma, its coverage of other tribal
                    peoples was uneven and its organizational format discouraged classroom adoption.6
            
            Meanwhile, the nature of the inquiry into the Indian past underwent significant change. For years
                    historians had complained that although anthropologists might have possessed a better understanding
                    of the intricacies of tribal culture, their historical research was inadequate, and they often
                    failed to place their analysis within the broader framework of American life. They knew what was
                    "going on" among tribal people, but they did not know what "was
                    happening." In contrast, anthropologists answered that historians might be well versed in
                    the formulation and application of federal Indian policies, but they remained too closely tied to
                    their traditional primary sources and failed to understand the complexity of tribal culture. They
                    were writing "white man's history." They knew what "was
                    happening," but they really did not know what was "going on."
            Yet there were some exceptions. Several scholars, primarily anthropologists, combined their knowledge
                    of tribal culture with sound historical methodology to create a new approach to the study of tribal
                    people, both in the eastern and western hemispheres. For many years Professor Erminie
                    Wheeler-Voegelin had pioneered in this technique at Indiana University, while John C.
                    Ewers's studies of the Blackfeet and other plains tribes also followed in this tradition at
                    the Smithsonian.7 (I once heard a western historian admit that he really could
                    not define "ethnohistory"; but he asserted, "Whatever it is, John Ewers
                    does it.") In retrospect, however, Anthony F. C. Wallace's publication of The Death and Rebirth of the Seneca probably represents the first of the modern
                    ethnohistories focusing upon Indian people in the 
                        United States
                    . Wallace's study of religious revitalization continues to set the standards
                    for ethnohistorical scholarship.8
            
            
               
                  5 William T; Hagan, American Indians (Chicago, 1961);
                        Alvin M. Josephy, Jr., The Patriot Chiefs: A Chronicle of American Indian
                            Leadership (New York, 1962); Francis Paul Prucha, comp., The Indian in
                            American History (New York, 1971).
               
                  6 Angie Debo, A History of the Indians of the 
                                United States
                            
                   (Norman, Okla., 1970).
               
                  7 John C. Ewers, The Blackfeet: Raiders on the Northwestern
                            Plains (Norman, Okla., 1958).
               
                  8 Anthony F. C. Wallace, The Death and Rebirth of the
                        Seneca (New York, 1970).
            
            
            Inspired both by Wallace and the new sensitivity to minority perspectives, historians began to create
                    a "new Indian history," designed not only to place the tribes within the
                    mainstream of the broader American perspective but also to illustrate how Indian people were
                    motivated by their own unique cultural patterns and how those patterns adapted to changes swirling
                    around them. Although Indian people repeatedly have been forced to react to the policies of
                    Euro-Americans, the new Indian history has attempted to analyze the Indian response and to show that
                    tribal cultures have been remarkably resilient, maintaining many tenets of their traditional
                    lifestyles through decades of attempted forced acculturation. Moreover, the new scholarship
                    endeavored to present an "Indian centered" perspective: an account of Indian-white
                    relations that analyzed this interaction from the Indian viewpoint and illustrated that, far from
                    being the pawns of government policy, tribal people devised their own techniques of manipulating a
                    system designed to control them.
            The emergence of this new Indian history is closely associated with the D'Arcy McNickle
                    Center for the History of the American Indian at the Newberry Library in Chicago. Founded in 1972,
                    the center is based upon an extensive collection of printed materials (including many rare books and
                    pamphlets found in few other repositories) and is buttressed by the manuscripts of the Ayer
                    Collection. The center has emerged as a "clearing house" for historical research
                    and as an institution whose resources continue to attract scholars from throughout the 
                        United States
                     and the world. Led by a dedicated staff, the center regularly awards fellowships to
                    tribal historians from Native American communities throughout the 
                        United States
                     and Canada and also provides predoctoral and postdoctoral fellowships for academic
                    historians. In addition, during the past two decades the center has sponsored conferences and other
                    academic gatherings focusing upon major issues in this field and has also funded workshops designed
                    to improve the instruction of Indian history in elementary and secondary schools. Moreover, the
                    center regularly publishes bibliographies and other information designed to facilitate both teaching
                    and research. Unquestionably, the McNickle Center at the Newberry Library has played a critical role
                    in the growth of the new Indian history.
            During the past two decades this new history has addressed several issues. Almost all Indian
                    historians would argue that the study of their discipline stands upon its own merit. They have been
                    particularly sensitive to charges that the field is an intellectual cul-de-sac, that Indian people
                    have had little impact upon the larger history of the 
                        United States
                    . Indeed, much of the reluctance by conservative historians to accept the validity of
                    the new Indian history has been based upon their misconception that Indian people and their history
                    are at best a footnote, a series of incidents to be  quickly
                    mentioned and forgotten in the broader context of the American past. Of course Indians provided some
                    initial resistance to colonization (Metacom's War or Opechanacough's uprisings),
                    participated in the French and Indian War, fought with the British during the American Revolution
                    and the War of 1812, and illuminated the politics of the Jacksonian period, but according to
                    conservative historians these incidents are peripheral to the mainstream of American history in
                    comparison to such subjects as the formation of political parties during the Federalist and
                    Jeffersonian periods, or Whig economic theory during the 1840s.
            Fortunately, however, much of the new scholarship places Indians within this broader context and
                    illustrates that their interaction with Euro-Americans had a profound impact upon the history of the 
                        United States
                    . Written in 1972, Alfred W. Crosby's The Columbian Exchange:
                        Biological and Cultural Consequences of 1492, examines the consequences of initial
                    European-Indian contact upon both sides and indicates that such intercourse markedly transformed
                    both parties.9 The exchange provided the Old World with a cornucopia of new food
                    crops; and the transportation of corn, potatoes, manioc, sweet potatoes, and other crops back to the
                    eastern hemisphere not only broadened European, Asian, and African diets but also enabled these
                    people to bring new agricultural lands into production, which in turn reduced famine and encouraged
                    the rapid growth of population. Indians received several domestic animals (horses, sheep, pigs,
                    etc.) from the Europeans, and they rapidly adopted European technology, such as metal implements and
                    firearms. The introduction of Old World diseases among the Indian population of North and South
                    America, however, negated any positive exchange and created a demographic disaster. With no natural
                    immunities, millions of Native Americans fell victim to these maladies, essentially clearing the
                    Indian population from large regions and facilitating white settlement.
            Francis Jennings's The Invasion of America: Indians, Colonialism, and the Cant
                        of Conquest enlarges Crosby's investigations and illustrates that the European
                    settlers did not enter an untamed land devoid of human settlement but rather took over a previously
                    settled region whose population had almost been exterminated by Old World diseases.10 Indeed, in Jennings's own words, the eastern seaboard of North America resembled a
                    "widow" more than a "virgin" wilderness: the English who settled
                    in the region had insufficient skills and experience to conquer a wilderness, but their centralized,
                    hierarchial political system enabled them 
                  
                     9 Alfred W. Crosby, Jr., The Columbian Exchange:
                                Biological and Cultural Consequences of 1492 (Westport, Conn., 1972).
                  
                     10 Francis Jennings, The Invasion of America: Indians,
                                Colonialism, and the Cant of Conquest (Chapel Hill, N.C., 1975).
               
                     adroitly to mainpulate tribal people. Jennings also illustrates
                    that, far from being the primitive "savages" described by immigrant Englishmen,
                    the Indians lived in tightly knit, well-ordered villages and produced an agricultural surplus.
                    Moreover, Jennings questions whether the Europeans' ethnocentric definition of savagery is
                    applicable to the New England tribes. In summary, Jennings asks his readers to reexamine the
                    relationship between the Indians and the early colonists and to reassess the traditional heroic and
                    moral sanctity usually associated with the colonial powers. Some historians have complained that
                    Jennings's criticism of the Europeans and his vindication of tribal people represent an
                    unrealistic "overkill" from the Indian perspective, but his volume provides
                    considerable "food for thought" and serves as a valuable counterbalance to more
                    traditional accounts of the colonial period.
            Another facet of the new Indian history is the adoption by historians of certain theoretical models
                    previously employed by anthropologists, economists, and other social scientists. By far the most
                    successful is Richard White, whose volume, The Roots of Dependency, examines the
                    process through which previously independent Indian communities became economically dependent upon
                    their European or American neighbors.11 Although White's book focuses
                    upon three tribes—the Choctaws, Pawnees, and Navájos—his first
                    section, which concentrates upon the Choctaws, provides the best analysis. White describes how the
                    Choctaws, whose economic self-sufficiency carefully balanced horticulture with hunting and
                    gathering, became enmeshed in the southern deerskin trade. He argues that their subsequent reliance
                    upon European trade goods first facilitated the growth of a cattle industry, then encouraged part of
                    the tribe to adopt cotton cultivation. New patterns of tribal leadership emerged as a mixed-blood
                    elite championed acculturation and fought to retain the tribal homeland, while more conservative
                    tribespeople opted for removal to the West where they could pursue more traditional economic
                    activities. The defense of the old homelands enabled the mixed-bloods, whose loyalty previously had
                    been suspect, to emerge as the new Choctaw "patriots," an image that enhanced
                    their political stature within the tribe. White's analysis is quite perceptive and provides
                    one of the best discussions of economic and political change within an Indian community. Since the
                    model was first employed by modern Third World economists, White's discussion enables
                    scholars to place the economic dependency of the Choctaws and other tribes within a broader
                    framework of similar patterns of dependency throughout the western colonial world. Moreover, the
                    similarities between the educated, 
                  
                     11 Richard White, The Roots of Dependency: Subsistence,
                                Environment, and Social Change among the Choctaws, Pawnees, and Navajos (Lincoln,
                            Nebr., 1983).
               
                     mixed-blood Choctaws and the leaders of many newly emerging
                    modern nations is obvious.
            Other historians have concentrated their efforts upon the image of Indian people within the American
                    consciousness and the way in which that image has affected Indian-white relations. In The Savages of America Roy Harvey Pearce illustrates that colonists who arrived in the New
                    World brought preconceived notions regarding "savagism" and
                    "civilization" with them and then attempted to place the Indian people whom they
                    encountered within such a context.12 When they found that the tribespeople would
                    not readily conform to their plans, the Europeans rationalized that Indians were vestiges of a
                    former age or were Satan's minions. Indians must either change or be destroyed, but even if
                    they changed, they would be destroyed as Indians. In Seeds of Extinction: Jeffersonian
                        Philanthropy and the American Indian, Bernard W. Sheehan traces these concepts into the
                    early republic and illustrates that missionaries and other philanthropists wished to save the
                    tribespeople from the vices of frontier society, but they also expected them to embrace all the
                    virtues of American society and to become small yeomen farmers. When the Indians failed to accept
                    the entirety of American life, Jeffersonian reformers also became discouraged and eventually opted
                    for removal as the only recourse available for saving the tribespeople.13 Robert
                    F. Berkhofer's The White Man's Indian also traces the image of
                    Indians from the colonial period into the twentieth century and indicates that stereotypes of Indian
                    people have affected both the development of Indian policy and even Indian attitudes about
                    themselves. Examining a cultural milieu that includes science, art, literature, and philosophy,
                    Berkhofer argues that for most non-Indians, the stereotypical image of Indian people has become more
                    real than the actuality of Indian life.14
            
            Where is the new Indian history going? What are the particular subjects currently attracting
                    scholars' attention, and what will be the focal point of future research and writing?
                    Certain subjects immediately come to mind. The first is demography. Recent research by Russell
                    Thornton, Henry F. Dobyns, and others, has enabled scholars to reassess their estimates of both the
                    pre-Columbian population and the number of Indian people inhabiting the 
                        United States
                     during the early colonial period.15 Utilizing such data, Jennings
                        
                  
                     12 Roy Harvey Pearce, The Savages of America: A Study of
                                the Indian and the Idea of Civilization (Baltimore, 1953).
                  
                     13 Bernard W. Sheehan, Seeds of Extinction: Jeffersonian
                                Philanthropy and the American Indian (Chapel Hill, N.C., 1973).
                  
                     14 Robert F. Berkhofer, Jr., The White Man's
                                Indian: Images of the American Indian from Columbus to the Present (New York,
                            1978).
                  
                     15 Russell Thornton, American Indian Holocaust and
                                Survival: A Population History Since 1492 (Norman, Okla., 1987); Henry F. Dobyns,
                                Their Number Become Thinned: Native American Population Dynamics in Eastern
                                North America (Knox-ville, Tenn., 1983).
               
                     and other historians have argued for a reassessment of Indian
                    culture in comparison to contemporary cultures of the Old World. Other population studies should
                    facilitate additional research into the relationship between different Indian communities and in the
                    general development of life in the western hemisphere prior to the fifteenth century. As the 
                        United States
                     approaches the Columbian Quincentennial, it is critical that Americans realize that the
                    Europeans did not "discover" a virtually empty continent populated by only a few
                    "savages." It is imperative to realize that the western hemisphere also shared
                    many patterns of cultural development with the Old World. The Americas were not a nascent backwater
                    eagerly awaiting European development.
            Another topic which needs considerably more investigation is the role of métis or
                    mixed-blood people within the tribal communities. Previously labeled as
                    "half-breeds," or "quarter-breeds," these people of mixed
                    lineage have been depicted as cultural outcasts caught between the Indian and non-Indian worlds but
                    denied membership in either existence. More recent scholarship suggests, however, that they played
                    key roles as cultural brokers, or "middlemen," between the tribes and the colonial
                    or federal governments, often working as agents of imperial powers but also interceding for the
                    tribal communities.16 Obviously many of these people were entrepreneurs,
                    sometimes amassing a personal fortune, but many also served their people. Past assessments of them
                    as unscrupulous opportunists are unfair. Moreover, the rancor they engendered among federal Indian
                    agents probably is a measure of their success. Many of the mixed-blood leaders were well educated by
                    frontier standards, and they were less easily manipulated than the more traditional tribal people.
                    Indeed, rather than being alienated from both the Indian and non-Indian worlds, they were
                    comfortable in both, and their ability to transcend both cultures enhanced their prominence.
                    Throughout the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries these people held key positions in many of
                    the tribes, and further investigations of their activities will provide scholars with critical
                    insights into the changing tribal cultures and the nature of Indian politics.
            Equally important is the crucial role played by Indian women. In the past almost all research has
                    focused upon the activities of Indian men, and although historians have long acknowledged the
                    important roles played by Indian women, they have been remiss in investigating them. More recently,
                    both historians and anthropologists have attempted to transcend the stereotypical role of the
                    passive Indian woman to illustrate that many held influential positions 
                  
                     16 Jacqueline Peterson and Jennifer S. H. Brown, eds., The New Peoples: Being and Becoming Métis in North America (Lincoln,
                            Nebr., 1985).
               
                     within their communities, but considerably more inquiry into
                    this subject is needed.17
            
            Finally, historians need to investigate further the Indian experience in the middle and late
                    twentieth century. Prior to the 1980s most historical scholarship terminated with the Indian
                    Reorganization Act and the New Deal. Recently, Donald L. Fixico has examined the termination and
                    relocation policies of the 1950s, but additional studies of the Indians' role in World War
                    II and of the Red Power movements are needed.18 Although many Americans still
                    associate Indian people with the past and mistakenly believe them to be "vanishing
                    Americans," they are one of the most rapidly expanding minority groups in the 
                        United States
                    . Indeed, the Indian population is burgeoning. In addition, Indians are a minority group
                    no longer primarily ensconced upon reservations in the West. Today, almost 50 percent of the Indian
                    population lives in urban areas. Indians always have been, are, and will continue to be a part of
                    the American experience. Their history is important. Their history is our own.
            
               
                  17 See Gretchen M. Bataille and Kathleen M. Sands, eds., American Indian Women: Telling Their Lives (Lincoln, Nebr., 1984); and Sylvia Van
                        Kirk, "Many Tender Ties": Women in Fur-Trade Society in Western
                            Canada, 1670-1870 (Norman, Okla., 1980).
               
                  18 Donald L. Fixico, Termination and Relocation: Federal
                            Indian Policy, 1945-1960 (Albuquerque, N. Mex., 1986).
            
         
         
         
            The Scholar as Detective: Disentangling Fact from Fiction in Accounts of Pioneer History
            
                    Bob Hall
                    *
                
            When Robert and Helen Lynd published Middletown, their sociological study of
                    Muncie, Indiana, in 1929, they included little historical material in the volume. Seven-and-a-half
                    pages on "The Historical Setting" and some scattered references throughout the
                    book to historical material comprised its historical substance. Despite this lack of evidence,
                    however, the Lynds had made a number of definite assumptions about "historical"
                    Muncie. As far as they were concerned, Muncie before 1890 was "a placid county-seat
                    … drowsing about its courthouse square," a town where local rather than national
                    or regional influences were dominant and where class differences existed but were not as rigid as
                    they were to become in the early decades of the twentieth century.1 Later
                    researchers working with the Muncie manuscript census for 1850 to 1880 were able to show that these
                    assumptions were grossly ill-founded.2
            
            The basis for the Lynds' misconceptions lay in the fact that the data for their historical
                    work came from the recollections of elderly townspeople. Overlain by local mythology, such data
                    often provide an unsatisfactory foundation for historical research, and the Lynds' 
                  
                     * Bob Hall is senior lecturer in the department of
                            sociology, University of Canterbury, Christchurch, New Zealand. The author is grateful to
                            the following people for their help with his research for this article: Nancy Turner and
                            Mary Lou Gentis, Special Collections, Ball State University; Bill Barnett, Library Business
                            Manager, Ball State University; Marybelle Burch, Manuscript Librarian, Indiana State
                            Library; and Dwight Hoover, Director, Center for Middletown Studies, Ball State University.
                  
                     1 Robert S. Lynd and Helen M. Lynd, Middletown: A Study
                                in Contemporary American Culture (New York, 1929), 12-13, 37, 479-80.
                  
                     2 See Howard M. Bahr and Alexander Bracken, "The Middletown
                            of Yore— Population, Persistence, Migration and Stratification,
                            1850-1880," Rural Sociology, XLVIII (Spring, 1983), 120-32. It
                            should be noted that because of confidentiality restrictions these manuscript census
                            schedules were not available to the Lynds when they did their research.
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXV (December, 1989). ©1989, Trustees of Indiana
                            University.
               
                     work has been criticized because of this.3
                    But while the Lynds may have faced the problem of disentangling myth from fact in their historical
                    research, they did not have to grapple with fabrication. I was not so fortunate.
            I spent the summer of 1988 as a Research Fellow at the Ball State University Center for Middletown
                    Studies in Muncie. I was to study the process of community formation in the town from the 1820s
                    onwards, drawing on local histories, newspaper materials, county records, land records, manuscript
                    census schedules, as well as whatever diaries, letters, and other private documents could be
                        located.4 Public records are fundamental to this kind of research because
                    they help to establish a framework of "hard" facts within which the research can
                    develop. What is often missing, however, is the personal detail and insight that arises from private
                    sources such as diaries or letters. Researchers prize private records, especially those that have
                    not been previously studied. I was more than delighted, therefore, to come across two such sets of
                    letters published in a local newspaper. Both sets of letters covered a significant period in Muncie
                    history (1826 through 1861), both sets were fairly detailed, and, as far as I was aware, neither had
                    been used by other researchers in the field.5
            
            Between January 29 and May 14, 1933, two years prior to the Lynds' second study of
                        Muncie,6 a series of sixty-one letters appeared in the Muncie Sunday Star. Published under the byline of Robert B. Bradbury, a regular contributor of
                    local historical material to the Star, the letters were presented as having been
                    written from Muncie by John Boyleston between March 5, 1826, through December 8, 1861. The letters
                    were addressed to Boyleston's brother, James, who lived on Beacon Street, Boston,
                    Massachusetts.
            
               
                  3 In the history of community studies the Lynds have not been the only
                        ones to suffer this fate. Lloyd Warner's "Yankee City" studies were
                        similarly criticized by Stephan Thernstrom. Likewise, Conrad M. Arensberg's and Solon
                        T. Kimball's classic study of County Clare, Ireland, was criticized by Peter Gibbon for
                        being informed by a faulty historical perspective. W. L. Warner and P. S. Lunt, The
                            Social Life of a Modern Community (New Haven, Conn., 1941); Stephan Thernstrom,
                        "Yankee City Revisited: The Perils of Historical Naiveté," American Sociological Review, XXX (Summer, 1965), 234-42; Arensberg and
                        Kimball, Family and Community in Ireland (Cambridge, Mass., 1940); Peter
                        Gibbon, "Arensberg and Kimball Revisited," Economy and
                        Society, II (November, 1973), 479-98.
               
                  4 The theoretical framework for the research drew on Max Weber's
                        discussion of closure and community formation. See Max Weber, Economy and Society:
                            An Outline of Interpretive Sociology (1922; Berkeley, Calif., 1978), 339-55, 385-98.
               
                  5 Both sets of documents would have been available to the Lynds had they
                        ranged more widely in their reading of Muncie newspapers. One set was published in the Muncie
                            Star in 1907, sixteen-and-a-half years before the Lynds' first
                        period of field-work in Muncie; the other set was published in the Star in
                        1933, two years before their second period of fieldwork.
               
                  6 Robert S. Lynd and Helen M. Lynd, Middletown in Transition:
                            A Study in Cultural Conflicts (New York, 1937).
            
            
            Two features of the Boyleston letters were striking. They covered a significant period in
                    Muncie's past. From the early years of its settlement in the 1820s through the beginnings
                    of the Civil War in 1861, Muncie history is not well documented. County histories provide some
                    insight into the process of community formation during these years, but these are no substitute for
                    primary documents.7 Three sets of local diaries from this period offer some
                    insight, those of David Gharky, Thomas Neely, and Frederick Putnam.8 These
                    diaries are closer to what researchers require, but their entries often provide insufficient depth
                    of detail. Nor are local newspapers a great help in researching this period. The first newspaper was
                    not published in Muncie until 1837; between then and the early 1860s, Muncie newspapers came and
                    went with regularity as successive publishers faced the common problem of insufficient local
                        subscriptions.9 In the midst of this dearth of primary materials, the
                    Boyleston letters appeared to be a godsend.
            These letters were striking not only because of their time span but also because of their depth of
                    detail and coverage. John Boyleston seemed to have been a man with an excellent reporter's
                    eye. In fact, he surpassed Muncie reporters since his letters contained the type of local detail
                    that was often missing from newspaper columns. The first and last of his letters illustrate this.
                    The first letter was written from Munseytown10 in March of 1826: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Munseytown, Indiana.
                           
                                    Fifth of March, 1826.
                                
                        My dear brother,
                        
                           
                              7 For the history of 
                                            Delaware County
                                         see Thomas B. Helm, History of 
                                                Delaware County
                                             Indiana, With Illustrations and Biographical Sketches of some
                                            of its Prominent Men and Pioneers (Chicago, 1881); William H. Kemper,
                                            A Twentieth Century History of 
                                                Delaware County
                                            , Indiana (Chicago, 1908); Frank D. Haimbaugh, History of 
                                                Delaware County
                                            , Indiana (2 vols., Indianapolis, 1924); Richard A. Greene,
                                            Muncie and 
                                                Delaware County
                                            : Its History and Early Development (Muncie, Ind., 1965);
                                        and Wiley W. Spurgeon, 
                                 
                                                Muncie
                                             and 
                                                Delaware County
                                            : An Illustrated Retrospective (Woodland Hills, Calif.,
                                        1984).
                           
                              8 The David Gharky diary covers the years from the early
                                        1830s to 1850. See David Gharky, The Life of David Gharky as
                                            Written by Himself (Portsmouth, 
                                            Ohio
                                        , 1852). The Thomas Neely diary covers the years from 1860 to 1897.
                                        While not available as a whole in published form, extracts from Neely's
                                        diary have appeared from time to time in the Muncie Star. See,
                                        for example, issues from July 23 to December 24, 1933. Frederick
                                        Putnam's diary begins in 1842 and continues through until 1881. It is
                                        reproduced in pages 116 to 125 of Kemper, A Twentieth Century
                                            History of 
                                                Delaware County
                                            .
                           
                           
                              9 Between June, 1837, and December, 1850, there were eight
                                        separate newspapers published in Muncie. The longest running of these was the
                                            Delaware County Democrat, published for twenty-seven
                                        months between October, 1843, and December, 1845.
                           
                              10 Muncie was originally known as Muncietown or Munseytown
                                        and was so named after the Munsee clan of the Delaware Indians who lived along
                                        the banks of the White River. The name was changed to Muncie in 1845. See
                                        Geraldine Chavis, "The Development of Muncie," in Althea L.
                                        Stoeckel and Ross S. Johnson, eds., Delaware County, Indiana,
                                            1827-1850: The Pioneer, Period (Muncie, Ind., 1975).
                        
                        
                        I fear you have been worried on account of my long-continued silence but the past
                                    winter has been very hard and there was no travelling out, so I had no means of
                                    sending a letter to you. But the trails will be open within a fortnight and I will
                                    forward this to you at the earliest moment I can.
                        I wrote you last summer from Greenville (Ohio) but I did not know then I would soon
                                    leave there. But that part of the country has been trapped for several years, so I
                                    thought it would be best for me to try further west. I stopped in Winchester for a
                                    few weeks in August, but there was only a small river there and not much sign of
                                    fur, so I came on west to Munseytown. White River at this place has some good fish,
                                    and I am glad to tell you there are mighty fine people living at this settlement,
                                    and also a number of families within ten or fifteen miles. I am staying with Daniel
                                    Simmons and his wife, Katy, now. They have the biggest cabin along the river and
                                    have been in Munseytown for a year. But I may go on to Strawtown and possibly to
                                    Indianapolis this summer. I will write you if I do.
                        I took a lot of prime fur this winter and sold it all to a trader by the name of
                                    Thomas Kirby, who peddles goods up and down the river, carrying a packsack on his
                                    back. There are no roads in this country like I have been used to—only
                                    here and there a winding Indian trail through the woods—so Mr Kirby does
                                    not get very far from the river or creeks, as there is where the trails mostly go.
                                    But Mr Kirby knows everybody, and I like to sit in Mr Samuel Watson's store
                                    at night and hear Mr Kirby talk.
                        Mr Watson keeps about everything in his store—tobacco, groceries, dry
                                    goods and potions, powder and shot and traps and quinine. There is no doctor
                                    anywhere near and people take lots of quinine in the winter for colds, and in the
                                    summer for ague and malaria. Right now, Mrs Simmons is giving me some sulphur and
                                    molasses to thin the blood. I will try and send another letter when I can.
                        I like this country. But I wish you would write and let me know how you are. Send
                                    your letter to me at Munseytown on White River and I will get it. Good-bye,
                        
                                    From your brother,
                                    John11
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            The letter was addressed to James Boyleston Esquire, Eleven Beacon Street, Boston, Massachusetts.
                    Similar detail was to be found in every one of the sixty-one published letters. By the time John
                    wrote the last of them, on December 8, 1861, his brother had moved to number eight Beacon Street,
                    Boston: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Muncie, Indiana.
                           
                                    Eighth of December 1861.
                                
                        My dear brother,
                        I cannot think of much to write you about, except the condition of the country and
                                    you probably know more about that than I do. This fall Charles W. Moore married
                                    Clara J., the daughter of Samuel P. Wilson. Last June the Baptist church was
                                    dedicated. The sermon was preached by Rev. Silas Bailey, the president of Franklin
                                    College. The church is located at the northeast corner of Jackson and Jefferson
                                    streets. It is a plain brick building with three windows on each side, a vestibule
                                    in front and a belfrey on top. They engaged Rev. M. D. Gage to preach for one month.
                        The Broad Axe Temperance Lodge of the Order of Good Templars has been organized here
                                    by Mrs. Amanda Way, of Winchester. Among the organizers were Dr. 
                              
                                 11 Muncie Star, January 29,
                                        1933.
                           
                                     Samuel O. Budd the dentist, Mrs. Armstead M.
                                    Klein, David Case, William Lynn the merchant and others. I understand this order
                                    works for the maintenance of good order by keeping under subjection the promoters of
                                    intemperance and disorder.
                        John S. Reid is making cider vinegar at the saw mill. He does not press the apples
                                    but grinds them, then they are left standing in the tank, the cider dripping from
                                    them into a vat. This vinegar is perfectly pure and he has found a ready sale. Rev.
                                    Abijah Marine is the new Methodist preacher. Write me as I want to hear from you.
                        
                                    From your brother,
                                    John.12
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            The letters between these two identified individuals, described events and noted and discussed the
                    circumstances of the township's development in considerable detail: 
                  
                     
                        You will see by the heading on this letter that this is now 
                                        Delaware County
                                    , it being established first of April which was last Sunday. Then on
                                    Monday the people living in the new county met and elected officers for the county
                                    (April 8th, 1827).
                        A man by the name of Schafer, who is a millwright, has just finished building a grist
                                    mill for Mr. Goldsmith C. Gilbert on the north side of the new race, near the river
                                    on High Street. This mill has a tub wheel and is a corn-cracker. The buhr was made
                                    from a niggerhead and hauled in from Hagerstown, Indiana. This mill is a two and a
                                    half story frame building with an attic and everyone says it will be a great
                                    inducement for people to come to Munseytown (September 14, 1829).
                        The school trustees of Center Township who are Minus Turner, Thomas Kirby and Joshua
                                    Truitt built a school house this summer on the Harter farm at the southeast corner
                                    of the township. They put up a frame building about twenty feet by thirty feet and
                                    it cost about $30 (November 3, 1829).
                        The most interesting thing I have to write you about is that the county commissioners
                                    are building a new courthouse. They are making it of brick, forty-five feet square
                                    and twenty-eight feet high with a cupalo on top. They contracted with Mr. Morgan
                                    John to do the work and got two brick layers from New Castle, but they only got the
                                    first story of it put up before cold weather came on and stopped them working
                                    (December 10, 1836).
                        David Gharky started to build a sawmill on the river west of town, but did not get it
                                    completed, because the ground sank so he had all his work for nothing (December 10,
                                    1836).
                        In March there was a temperance meeting in Muncietown, the first any of us had heard,
                                    I guess. It was held in the courthouse. Everybody was there. Rev. Robert Irwin of
                                    the Presbyterian Church and Rev. Wade Posey of the Methodist Church were the leaders
                                    (July 1st, 1840).13
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            By cross-checking this information with diaries, county histories, and relevant newspaper accounts,
                    it became clear that the events described in these letters had happened much as reported and that
                    the people referred to in the letters existed in Muncie at the times identified. The material
                    appeared to be authentic. But what did the historical record reveal of John Boyleston? The
                    difficulties began here.
            
               
                  12
                        "Ibid., May 14, 1933.
               
                  13
                        "Ibid., January 29, February 12, 19, March 5, 1933.
            
            
            The archival resources of Ball State University's Special Collections unit provided no
                    information to confirm Boyleston's existence in Muncie. There was no trace of him in the 
                        Delaware County
                     census indexes for the years 1830 to 1860. In July, 1840, Boyleston announced in a
                    letter to his brother that he had just married a "girl" from Richmond by the name
                    of Mary Jones, but there was no trace of the marriage in the Special Collection's index of
                        marriages.14 In September, 1837, Boyleston wrote to his brother to say that
                    he had just bought land on West Jackson Street in Muncie. Again the land records held in Special
                    Collections revealed no trace of Boyleston as an owner of land in Muncie. Enquiries to the Genealogy
                    Section of the 
                        Allen County
                     Library in Fort Wayne failed to locate a James Boyleston either in the relevant Boston
                    census indexes or in the 
                        Boston city
                     directory for 1860.
            Robert Bradbury, then, having found the Boyleston letters, may have changed the family name of the
                    brothers prior to publication. Bradbury was born in 1881 and was a lifelong resident of Muncie. His
                    father, Robert B. Bradbury, was a prominent business man in the city, and one of his uncles, A. B.
                    Bradbury, was a prominent doctor.15 Perhaps the letters were family letters;
                    Bradbury may have changed the name for family reasons. The task remained of discovering what
                    Boyleston's real name was. The letters could not be legitimately used in an academic
                    context until he had been identified. But Bradbury, the most obvious source of explanation, had died
                    childless in 1937. A Muncie relative knew little of his longdeceased cousin.
            By this stage it seemed possible that the letters—whoever their author—were not
                    authentic, but the comments that Bradbury made in introducing the first of the letters on January
                    29, 1933, gave no hint of fabrication: 
                        A little package of letters discovered in the bottom of an old trunk where they had lain for
                            almost a century; dusty, the paper brittle to the touch, yellowed in the folds and crumbling
                            at the edges, the ink faded by the years—would not these be interesting to read
                            whatever the unknown scribe wrote so long ago? But they would be doubly interesting if they
                            should give, out of the past, intimate facts about the early formative years of
                            one's own home town. Not an historical parade of important events and leading
                            citizens, but the everyday happenings in the little settlement of Munseytown from 1826
                            through 1842 as seen and set out in letters to his brother in Boston, by a young man who had
                            come west to grow up with the country and had chosen to make his home here. … The
                            first installment of twenty-five of the letters follows.16
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  14 It is not surprising that the marriage did not appear in the 
                            Delaware County
                         records since the ceremony would have taken place in the bride's hometown
                        in 
                     Richmond, Wayne
                            County
                  , and would have been recorded there.
               
                  15 Details of the Bradbury family's history in Muncie can be
                        obtained from Haimbaugh, History of 
                                Delaware County
                            , II, 474-75.
               
               
                        16
                        Muncie Sunday Star, January 29, 1933.
                    
            
            
            There were also uncertainties resulting from the style of the letters—would anyone write
                    in such detailed fashion to a brother in Boston?—but the discovery of yet another set of
                    letters in the Muncie Star dispelled this doubt. These letters supposedly had been
                    penned by another early Muncie settler and displayed a style very similar to the Boyleston letters.
            In the September, 1907, issue of the Indiana Quarterly Magazine of History, the
                    editor, George S. Cottman, drew attention to a local history contribution under the heading
                    "Early Muncie Letters." He commented: 
                        
                     The Muncie Sunday Star for June 23, 1907, publishes more than three columns
                            of old letters that have considerable local interest. These were written by Margaret Blount,
                            of Muncie, and extend in time from 1826 to 1864. These letters, well-written, sprightly and
                            gossipy, make excellent reading and give graphic and intimate pictures of old
                            "Muncietown" and its surroundings.17"
                    
            
            Margaret Blount was a daughter of William Blount, one of the first white settlers in 
                        Delaware County
                    , and the addressee of the letters was her cousin Rachel. Only seven in number, the
                    Blount letters were not as extensive in their coverage as the Boyleston letters, but there were
                    similarities in style and in detail: 
                  
                     
                        on the first of April they are going to organise a county and call it after the
                                    Delaware Indians. The three men who own land right in the middle of this county are
                                    going to give donations to the county for a county seat and call that place
                                    Munseytown after the Munsees of the Delawares. … (October 6, 1826)
                        Nearly all of us have been sick this spring with what our first neighbour here
                                    Goldsmith Gilbert calls the "shakes". And that is a good name for
                                    it for it just describes the sickness exactly. This Mr and Mrs Gilbert were the
                                    first people to settle in this part of the country. Mrs Gilbert came over last
                                    Thursday to ask mother if I couldn't come and help her on the day the
                                    county is organized for the commissioners are all to meet at their house and she
                                    will have to feed them for several days (October 6, 1826).
                        I forgot to tell you we are having grand jury meetings here now in a little log
                                    building up near the brick yard. Nearly every one in town has joined. I expect we
                                    will have a meeting house before long as nearly every one around here are Methodists
                                    (December, 1830).
                        The greatest piece of news in Munseytown today and that which everyone is talking
                                    about is that we have a newspaper here now. It is called the Munsietonian and its
                                    first issue was on the fifteenth of this month. It is a fine paper. I wish I could
                                    send you a copy but there are not very many of them (June, 1837).
                        It has been ten years since I last wrote one of these letters to you, yet it seems
                                    but yesterday. And in that time our country has been at war with Mexico. Twelve men
                                    went from this county but none from this town. David Kilgore, of this place,
                                    organized a company and they drilled up and down the commons here getting ready to
                                    go, but when they went to Indianapolis the regiment was full and they had to return
                                    home (Muncietown, 1848).
                        
                           
                              7
                                        Indiana Quarterly Magazine of History, III (September, 1907),
                                        148.
                        
                        
                        Speaking of good times, our young people certainly have them at our county fairs now.
                                    A few years ago our fairs were so small they were held in the courthouse but now we
                                    have a fine fair ground and lots of attractions, one of our special features is our
                                    society girls riding in the races (1864).18
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            The similarity of style between the Boyleston and Blount letters provided the necessary encouragement
                    to continue the task of authenticating the Boyleston material. The introductory comments to the
                    Blount letters in the Muncie Star of June 23,1907, however, might have offered a
                    warning.
            The letters were headlined "History of Muncie from Old Letters. Written by Margaret Blount,
                    Daughter of Third Settler in County." This title certainly gave the impression that the
                    editorial staff wanted readers to believe the letters were authentic; the editor of the Indiana Quarterly Magazine of History was taken in by this, judging by his comments quoted
                    earlier. The introductory comments in the Star told another story, however: 
                        Pioneer history of Munseytown and 
                                Delaware county
                            , written in the form of letters by a descendant of William Blount who entered
                            land in Liberty township in 1822 and in 1826 entered 113 acres in Center township on what is
                            now the greater part of Muncie. All dates, incidents etc. are exact—being taken
                            from wills, county records, county histories and personal conversation with Mary Jane
                            Edmunds, the first white child born in 
                                Delaware county
                             just prior to her death; Uncle Joe Randall, a pioneer one month before his
                            death; Aunt Betsy Wilson, Aunt Emily Streeter and most of Muncie's first settlers,
                            also Muncie's first newspapers up to the time of the civil war. Paper read before
                            the Culture club by Mrs Ralph W. Ross, great, great granddaughter of William Blount.19
                  
                    
            
            Technically speaking, the Star was correct when it said that the letters had been
                    written by "a descendant of William Blount," but a sleight of hand led one to
                    believe that the descendant in question was the daughter, Margaret Blount, rather than the
                    great-great-granddaughter, Mrs. Ralph W. Ross. This was obviously not the case, but the clue was
                    missed.
            While willing to concede that the Boyleston letters might be fake, there were still problems
                    attributing motive to Bradbury's action. He was a noted local historian, as part of his
                    obituary in 1937 acknowledged: 
                        Mr Bradbury's articles on Indian and pioneer life and customs and on state parks,
                            based on exhaustive research, won him state-wide recognition as an authority in the three
                            fields. One article brought him nation-wide recognition.20
                  
                     It still seemed reasonable that the letters were Bradbury family letters and that the name
                    had been changed to protect the family. 
                  
                     18 Muncie Sunday Star; June 23, 1907.
                  
                            19
                            "Ibid.
                        
                  
                     20 Muncie Star, January 2, 1937. Bradbury died on
                            the evening of January 1, 1937. Further articles commemorating his death appeared in the
                            Muncie Star, January 3 and February 2, 1937.
               
                     The accuracy of the material and the plausiblity of the story
                    both seemed to substantiate the letters' authenticity.
            First, most of the material matched that from other sources. There were one or two inaccuracies, but
                    by and large one might explain them away. Boyleston's reference to Gharky Street in his
                    listing of Muncie streets in 1827 was peculiar, since David Gharky did not arrive in Munseytown
                    until 1830. Boyleston's list, however, omitted mention of Cherry Street. Gharky Street was
                    eventually laid out two blocks west of Cherry. Bradbury, having difficulty with "ink faded
                    by the years" may have misread Gharky for Cherry. The "inaccuracy" was
                    resolved.
            Next, there was the issue of the plausibility of the story. If Bradbury faked the whole thing, surely
                    he would have created a character with the necessary education to sustain such a volume of detailed
                    correspondence. In a perverse way the letters rang truer because John Boyleston did not fit this
                    mold. The letters revealed that he had a variety of occupations during his time in
                    Muncie— trapper, laborer, farmworker, store clerk, and brickyard worker— none
                    of which suggested that he was a man of education. Indeed, his lack of education was substantiated
                    by reference to a writing school that was being held in the courthouse: "I have been there
                    some time but it did not seem to help my writing any. But anyway I hope you can read it"
                    (November 4, 1834).21 Again, it seemed that if Bradbury was inventing a
                    fictitious character he would not have allowed such an implausible blemish.
            When more serious work began of tracing John Boyleston's identity, problems emerged. In a
                    letter dated September 20, 1837, Boyleston wrote to his brother that he had bought "two
                    lots and a house on West Jackson Street as an investment."22 This
                    seemed an important lead; the deed books and property maps were scanned for likely candidates. A few
                    possibilities were identified from men who owned two town sections on West Jackson around this time,
                    but none of them could have been Boyleston. Out of curiosity I scanned East Jackson and thought for
                    a moment that I had found something. There were two town sections on East Jackson that were held in
                    the name of James L. Russey and Frederick E. Putnam. In a letter dated December 3, 1838, Boyleston
                    had written that he was working as a clerk in Charles Willard's store and sharing his house
                    with Willard's other clerk, Frederick Putnam.23 This seemed to be the
                    needed breakthrough. Again, however, further research revealed that Russey could not have been
                    Boyleston since he had purchased his land after September, 1837. Excitement again gave way to
                    frustration.
            
               
                  21
                        Ibid., February 19, 1933.
               
                  22
                        Ibid., February 26, 1933.
               
                        23
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            Attention then returned to the Muncie manuscript census indexes. There were no Boylestons or
                    Bradburys listed for 1830 through 1860. If the letters were genuine, however, then someone had to
                    span those years. A list of all Muncie adult males recorded in the 1830 census was drawn up and
                    compared with the names for the 1840 census. Of the twenty-one males listed in the 1830 census only
                    four were still in Muncie in 1840. Goldsmith Gilbert and William Gilbert were discounted since they
                    were known settlers. The other two were William Fitzpatrick and John Smith. Neither of their family
                    profiles matched John Boyleston and, more significantly, neither of them were recorded as living in
                    Muncie at the 1850 census. Another blank had been drawn.
            As a last resort, the family listings for the 1850 Muncie census were scanned for a man in his
                    mid-forties with a wife and a son aged between nine and ten (Boyleston had announced the birth of
                    his son, James, in a letter dated October 10, 1841).24 There were no Muncie
                    families that matched this profile. By this stage I was becoming extremely annoyed with the late
                    Robert B. Bradbury.
            Newspaper articles by Bradbury had been mentioned in the 1930s in the Indiana History
                        Bulletin. Knowing from his obituary that he had been a member of the Indiana Historical
                    Society, I decided to call their office in Indianapolis to enquire whether any papers of
                    Bradbury's had been deposited with them either before or after his death. Again I drew a
                    blank but was referred to the Manuscript Division of the Indiana State Library. There the trail
                    ended; Bradbury's deception was finally revealed.
            After the Boyleston letters had been published in the Muncie Star in 1933, Bradbury
                    sent copies of the clippings to the Indiana State Library in Indianapolis. On October 28, 1933,
                    Hazel Whiteleather, the manuscript librarian, wrote in reply and expressed interest in getting
                    access to the original letters. When Bradbury responded on November 1, however, it was to say that
                    he could only let her have the newspaper clippings. His letter ignored the issue of whether the
                    letters were genuine or not. After Bradbury's death in January, 1937, the manuscript
                    librarian wrote to his sister, Jessie, asking if the the State Library could at least have access to
                    the manuscript material from which Bradbury had worked.25 No reply was received
                    to this letter. In the opinion of the manuscript librarian, the Boyleston letters were fake, and a
                    handwritten note was accordingly attached to the front of the library's file containing the
                    Bradbury letters. It read: "The letters printed in these newspaper articles were probably
                    fabricated by Mr. Bradbury."26
            
            
               
                  24
                        Ibid., March 5, 1933.
               
                  25 Correspondence between the manuscript librarian of the State Library
                        and the Bradbury family is held in the library.
               
                  26 See Robert B. Bradbury correspondence file (Manuscripts Division,
                        Indiana State Library, Indianapolis).
            
            
            To compound the problems further, discussions with the current manuscript librarian, Marybelle Burch,
                    revealed that the Blount letters were also fake. She directed my attention to the introductory
                    comments to those letters—the comments I had overlooked in my concern with authenticating
                    the Boyleston material- and these contained the damning evidence referred to earlier. To have come
                    across two instances of the same phenomenon in the history of one small midwestern town seemed
                    noteworthy, however, and the suggestion was made that that at least merited attention in an article.
            Discovering the fabrication of the Boyleston and Blount letters was unsettling enough, but further
                    research in the Indiana State Library revealed that both of these popular historians had simply been
                    following what seemed at the time to be an accepted Indiana tradition of fabricating historical
                    documents. In fact, the work of Bradbury and Mrs. Ross paled into insignificance beside that of Kate
                    Milner Rabb.
            When she died in July, 1937, Kate Milner Rabb was a respected figure in Indiana historical circles.
                    Born into a physician's family in Rockport, Indiana, in 1866, she was educated at Indiana
                    University and in 1891 married a lawyer, who subsequently became a prominent attorney in
                    Indianapolis. After her marriage Rabb began to write seriously and by the time of her death had
                    published extensively on Indiana local history. Her publications included books and newspaper
                    articles.
            Among her newspaper articles was a series that appeared in the Indianapolis Star in 1920. It was
                    presented as an edited version of the diary of John Parsons, a young lawyer from Petersburg,
                    Virginia, who had traveled through Indiana in 1840. In the course of his travels, Parsons met many
                    prominent Indiana leaders of the time, attended social gatherings and political rallies, and
                    recorded it all in meticulous detail. Prior to the publication of the Rabb series, the people of
                    Indiana had celebrated their state centennial and in this situation of heightened historic
                    consciousness, many wrote to the newspaper expressing their appreciation of the series. A New York
                    publishing house subsequently published the diary in 1920 under the title A Tour
                        Through Indiana in 1840.
               27
            
            In its book form, the diary was 378 pages long and was supplemented by editorial comment as well as
                    by a short biography and daguerreotype of Parsons. In a concluding note, indicating that Parsons had
                    died in Oxford, 
                        Ohio
                    , on his way home from the Indiana trip, Rabb commented: "Had he lived, his
                    education, his native brilliancy, his charming personality, would certainly have insured 
                  
                     27 Kate Milner Rabb, ed., A Tour Through Indiana in
                            1840 (New York, 1920).
               
                     him success and position. The diary, recently, brought to
                    light, is all that remains of his papers."28
            
            In 1921, the book was reviewed by the noted Indiana historian Logan Esarey, who commented:
                    "The editor has done her work with great care. … Altogether it is a very
                    pleasant picture. One might wish for a little spice here and there, but I believe pepper is not
                    usually served with peaches and cream."29 Others were not so favorably
                    disposed. An anonymous reviewer in the Missisippi Valley Historical Review of 1921
                    commented: "This book is a clever bit of historical fiction masquerading as a genuine
                    diary. … There is no diary of John Parsons, other than that which exists in the fertile
                    imagination of the supposed editor; … so clever is the deceit that very few have
                    discovered the spuriousness of the ‘diary’."30
                    The reviewer acknowledged that the book was based on extensive Indiana research and as such was
                    "extremely interesting" and "of historical value." Nevertheless,
                    since Rabb had refused to acknowledge the truth about the diary, it was being sold "under
                    false pretenses."31
            
            Rabb never acknowledged that the book was a work of fiction, but after her death the truth became a
                    matter of public record. In her obituary in July, 1937, the Indianapolis Star
                    described Rabb's book as "written as fiction but based on fact."32 In 1943, on the occasion of the dedication of the Kate Milner Rabb bookshelf
                    in the Rauth Memorial Library in Indianapolis, the Star commented further on her
                    book that "while it was believed to be an actual diary, it was in reality compiled by Mrs.
                    Rabb from data she gathered in the files of the State library."33
            
            These cases of fabrication of historical documents suggest that some Indiana writers thought that
                    history could be made more interesting and appealing if presented in the form of original
                    documents—particularly diaries or letters—rather than as dry academic
                    narrative. Neither Bradbury, Ross, nor Rabb were scholars, so they might not have felt themselves
                    bound by the strictures of professional historical research and presentation. At the time of his
                    death, Bradbury worked as production manager for the Muncie Malleable Foundry company. His
                    historical research and writing were done as an amateur. He wrote with some flair, as is obvious
                    from other 
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., 379.
                  
                     29 Logan Esarey, review of Tour Through Indiana in
                            1840, by Kate Milner Rabb, Indiana University Alumni Quarterly, X
                            (May, 1921), 486-87.
                  
                     30 Review of Tour Through Indiana in 1840, by Kate
                            Milner Rabb, Mississippi Valley Historical Review, VIII (December, 1921),
                            283-84. The fact that the reviewer was anonymous is intriguing; perhaps there was a
                            reluctance to get involved in controversy.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., 283.
                  
                     32 Indianapolis Star, July 4, 1937.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., May 16, 1943.
               
                     historical material that he contributed to the Muncie Star ("The Romance of Muncie," "Haunted
                    Hills," "The Old Timer," and "Indian Saga"), but it is
                    obvious that, like Rabb, he, too, wrote with a fair degree of historical license.34
            
            It could indeed be argued that both Robert Bradbury and Kate Milner Rabb succeeded in making local
                    history accessible to a lay audience that otherwise might have ignored it. Their respective
                    contributions were based on extensive research and wide-ranging familiarity with Indiana history.
                    There are very few inaccuracies in their historical detail. To this extent, their commitment to
                    popularizing local history cannot be faulted. What can be faulted, however, is their approach to how
                    this popularization should be achieved.
            To the scholarly researcher and many popular writers, too, the way in which both Bradbury and Rabb
                    took historical license with their materials has to be judged unforgiveable, especially since they
                    deliberately concealed it. In an interview in 1930, Rabb made the following comment: "The
                    dullest hamlet in Indiana will yield an interesting story. The beginnings of every village are full
                    of romantic interest if only one knows how to go about finding the story of those
                        beginnings."35 While agreeing with this, the scholar would have to
                    insist that accurary and interest can only be achieved to the extent that the sources are authentic.
                    Misconceptions based on recollections of a mythical past, as appeared in Middletown, are problematic enough. Unacknowledged fabrication, however, is another matter.
            
               
                  34 Just as Bradbury had his regular "Oldtimer" column in
                        the Muncie Star, so did Rabb have a "Hoosier Listening Post"
                        column in the Indianapolis Star. Rabb's column ran daily from July
                        18, 1920, to July 6, 1937. Given their common interest in Indiana history, the two must have met
                        at some stage, but it is unclear to what extent Bradbury's approach was directly
                        influenced by Rabb's diary format.
               
                  35 The interview appeared in the December, 1930, edition of Matrix, the publication of Theta Sigma Phi, the national honorary and professional
                        fraternity for women in journalism. The quotation is from a report on the interview, published
                        in the Indianapolis Star, January 18, 1931.
            
         
         
         
            The Indiana National Guard in the Turbulent 1960s
            
               David L. Anderson*
            
            Where was Dan? Almost as soon as Senator J. Danforth Quayle of Indiana became the 1988 Republican
                    vice-presidential nominee, questions arose about where he was while others his age were fighting and
                    dying in Vietnam. Where were other members of his generation in the turbulent days of the 1960s that
                    tested America's spirit? When asked, most of those in Vietnam or in antiwar protests, civil
                    rights marches, the Peace Corps, the women's movement, or elsewhere on the cutting edge of
                    the era recall those experiences as some of the most denning and indelible influences of their
                        lives.1 Yet the majority of the baby-boom generation, who reached adulthood
                    during the Vietnam War, did not actively engage in any of those hallmarks of the decade. Like
                    Quayle, their formative experiences were largely confined to the more common ones of family, school,
                    and career. Who among the generation will earn the mantle of leadership depends on what the public,
                    especially the baby boomers themselves, want to remember or cannot forget about those tense days
                    gone by.
            Quayle was in the Indiana National Guard from 1969 to 1975. Were guardsmen Vietnam draft dodgers?
                    Were they taking advantage of a respectable and available option in controversial times? What did
                    Guard units actually do? Voters, veterans, pundits, and politicians from across the spectrum of
                    public opinion debated these and other questions after Quayle's nomination. In his
                    particular case, some skeptics also wondered if he received unfair or perhaps even illegal
                    favoritism in obtaaning his place in the Guard.2
            
            For his generation, though, there is the broader question: how do their personal choices on military
                    service during the Vietnam 
                  
                     * David L. Anderson is associate professor and chairman of
                            the department of history and political science at the University of Indianapolis.
                  
                     1 Center for the New Leadership, Enduring Legacies:
                                Expressions from the Hearts and Minds of the Vietnam Generation (Washington, D.C.,
                            1987), 5-17.
                  
                     2 Indianapolis News, August 18, 19, 22, 27, 1988;
                            Indianapolis Star, August 21, 1988.
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXV (December, 1989). ©1989, Trustecs of Indiana
                            University. 
               
                     era affect their qualifications today for political leadership?
                    Since Quayle was the first, but doubtlessly not the last, of his age group to be on a national
                    ticket, his membership in the Guard needs to be placed in historical perspective. As a group,
                    guardsmen were neither draft-law violators nor war heroes. How should they be thought of today? The
                    Indiana Guard—Quayle's old unit—is a good place to begin looking for
                    answers.
            After World War II, the Indiana Guard's 38th Infantry Division demobilized from its
                    hard-fought campaigns in the Philippines and southwest Pacific. It converted back to its peacetime
                    roles as a state civil defense force and a reserve element of the regular Army. During the 1950s,
                    programs aimed toward recruitment, armory construction, and officer training improved the
                    Guard's ability to carry out both its state and federal responsibilities. Within the state,
                    the Guard was employed successfully in emergency relief work during floods and other natural
                    disasters. It also provided an important peace-keeping role during a 1954 strike of prison guards at 
                        Michigan City
                     and a bloody 1955 strike against the Perfect Circle Corporation in New Castle,
                    Richmond, and Hagerstown. During the Perfect Circle strike, some important lessons were learned
                    about carefully defining and, in fact, restricting the Guard's role in what was essentially
                    a civil law enforcement capacity.3
            
            The Indiana Guard's mission as part of the nation's military reserves was
                    relatively limited in the 1950s. Largely by the "luck of the draw," only one
                    Hoosier Army unit, the 915th Motor Ambulance Company, served in the Korean War. The 915th was a
                    black unit, a remnant of the old segregated Army. The Pentagon did not restore the company to the
                    Indiana Guard's organizational structure after the Korean conflict, and other Hoosier units
                    gradually integrated during the late 1950s and early 1960s.4
            
            During the 1960s, the domestic and international turmoil of that traumatic decade swept away the
                    basically quiet routine of the Indiana Guard. The Guard continued to serve its civil defense role.
                    Over 1,200 Hoosier guardsmen provided rescue, food, water, power, security, and other vital services
                    to many communities after killer tornadoes cut through twenty counties and destroyed four entire
                    towns on Palm Sunday, April 11, 1965.5 The decade held other dangers for
                    Americans, however. At home, angry, often violent confrontations erupted in the streets of the
                    nation's cities; 
                  
                     3 William J. Watt, "Citizen Soldiers in an Unsettled
                            World," in Indiana's Citizen Soldiers: The Militia and
                                National Guard in Indiana History, ed. William J. Watt and James R. H. Spears
                            (Indianapolis, 1980), 180-84; Leonard E. Webster, A Military History of the
                                Indiana National Guard, 1816-1966 (Indianapolis, 1966), 43-90, 99.
                  
                     4 Watt, "Citizen Soldiers," 180-81.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., 187; Webster, Military History of the Indiana National
                                Guard, 102.
               
                     abroad there was Vietnam. The big city riots and the remote
                    jungle war were in some ways related and in many ways distinct, but both directly involved the dual
                    civil-military mission of America's National Guard establishment. For guardsmen, as for
                    many other Americans, it was a time of tension and often of agonizing personal decisions.
            At the beginning of the 1960s, the Cold War with the Soviet Union was the overriding international
                    issue, and there was much concern about the so-called missile gap. The success of a communist
                    movement in Cuba focused attention there, and in 1962 the Cuban Missile Crisis riveted the
                    world's attention on the danger of nuclear war. Several National Guard and reserve units
                    were mobilized during the Cuban crisis, but, as during Korea, Indiana's 38th Infantry
                    Division was not among them. The division's commanding general was called to Washington
                    during the crisis to prepare for activation. In what may have been an irreversible numerical error,
                    however, the Pentagon issued orders calling Wisconsin's 36th Infantry Division to federal
                        duty.6 The world came so close to a nuclear hot war during the Cuban crisis
                    that world leaders began to back away from brinkmanship and atomic saber rattling; the scene of
                    global competition moved to the Third World. Some scholars have argued that this shift of attention
                    helps explain why Vietnam assumed such a central place in 
                        United States
                     foreign policy in the mid-1960s.7
            
            Whatever the reasons, Washington's decision to dig in America's heels in South
                    Vietnam against a communist-led and assisted insurgency placed new requirements on the
                    nation's military system, including the National Guard. By 1963, the number of American
                    military advisors in Vietnam exceeded 16,000, but that level of commitment had placed no particular
                    strain on 
                        United States
                     military manpower. Draft quotas were still under 10,000 per month, as they had been for
                    some years, and draft deferments for such things as occupation and education were fairly easy to
                    obtain. In 1965, with President Lyndon Johnson's decision to commit 
                        United States
                     combat divisions to Vietnam, the manpower needs changed dramatically. By the end of
                    1966, there were 385,000 
                        United States
                     troops in Vietnam and draft calls were over 30,000 a month. The build up continued
                    through 1968, when there were 536,000 servicemen and women in Vietnam. In 1968 draft calls exceeded
                    50,000 per month, and draft deferments had been sharply curtailed.8
            
            
               
                  6 Watt, "Citizen Soldiers," 186-87.
               
                  7 John Lewis Gaddis, Strategies of Containment: A Critical
                            Appraisal of Postwar American National Security Policy (New York, 1982), 198-238;
                        Thomas G. Paterson, "John F. Kennedy's Quest for Victory and Global
                        Crisis," in Kennedy's Quest for Victory: American Foreign Policy,
                            1961-1963, ed. Thomas G. Paterson (New York, 1989), 20-23.
               
                  8 Lawrence M. Baskir and William A. Strauss, Chance and
                            Circumstance: The Draft, the War and the Vietnam Generation (New York, 1978), 22-23;
                        James S. Olson, ed., Dictionary of the Vietnam War (New York, 1988),
                    552-55.
            
            
            The Vietnam build up had a dramatic impact on the Vietnam generation, which can be defined as those
                    who reached age nineteen between August, 1964, and March, 1973. Quayle celebrated his nineteenth
                    birthday on February 4, 1966. An estimated 1,600,000 men of the generation engaged in some combat in
                    Vietnam, whether or not actually assigned to combat duty. Those who served in combat constituted
                    only 6 percent of the Vietnam generation males. The 52,000 who were killed represented less than
                    two-tenths of 1 percent of the young men of the generation. There were another 6,000 killed in
                    Vietnam who were older than the Vietnam generation as defined above.9
            
            As the number of Americans fighting and dying in Vietnam increased from 1965 to 1968, both the
                    government and America's young men faced difficult choices. One option available to
                    Washington was to activate Guard and reserve units for combat. During the Korean War about 700,000
                    guardsmen and reservists had been called up, but during the Vietnam War President Johnson resisted
                    this approach for political reasons. In the Korean War the casualties suffered by some reserve units
                    (whose members all came from the same locality) had been crippling blows to their home communities,
                    and President John F. Kennedy's decision to activate reservists in the 1961 Berlin crisis
                    caused a severe political backlash. In an effort to avoid similar political repercussions and to
                    preserve the image of a limited war, Johnson chose to rely on the draft rather than the Guard or
                    reserves to meet the need for troops in Vietnam.10
            
            For the young men facing the possibility of conscription, there were several considerations,
                    including the most basic of all—survival. Most nineteen-year-olds had only vaguely formed
                    notions, if any at all, of the Rightness or wrongness of the Vietnam War. Certainly some men sought
                    to avoid the draft out of opposition to the war, a more likely factor after 1968 when American
                    public opinion began increasingly to question the continued 
                        United States
                     involvement. Before 1968 and even afterward most draft-age men were thinking
                    principally and understandably of their own personal interests. They were aware that not everyone
                    was needed in Vietnam, and they did not hesitate to declare honestly that they did not desire to
                        go.11
            
            
               
                  9 Baskir and Strauss, Chance and Circumstance, 3-6,
                        52-53, 283. Baskir and Strauss's casualty statistics have been adjusted slightly
                        higher. See Guenter Lewy, America in Vietnam (New York, 1978), 451; and John
                        S. Bowman, ed., The Vietnam War: An Almanac (New York, 1985), 358.
               
                  10 Russell F. Weigley, History of the 
                                United States
                             Army (enlarged ed., Bloom-ington, 1984), 531-35; Baskir and Strauss, Chance and Circumstance, 50; Lewy, America in Vietnam, 50.
               
                  11 Baskir and Strauss, Chance and Circumstance,
                    14-15.
            
            
            Many men took advantage of available draft deferments or exemptions. Others broke the law or fled the
                    country to avoid service. Still others sought safety within the service itself. Except for pilots,
                    those who enlisted in the Coast Guard, Navy, or Air Force could anticipate relatively safe duty
                    assignments. Even in the Army and Marines some clever soldiers tried successfully to secure safe
                    billets. One Pentagon official referred to these men as "Sergeant Bilkos" who made
                    sure someone else did the fighting.12 In view of the president's
                    reluctance to activate the reserves, however, the National Guard and reserves were the best
                    alternatives among the service options. One not only avoided the draft, but one also met
                    one's "military obligation" honorably and was able to continue education,
                    career, and family life without major interruption.
            If certain National Guard units had been called up in the late 1960s, some professional football,
                    baseball, and other sports teams probably would have had to suspend their seasons. A photograph
                    appeared in Life magazine in 1966 of a career master sergeant in the Maryland
                    National Guard wearing a Baltimore Colts uniform. The top sergeant was an avid fan, not a player,
                    but the commanding general willingly acknowledged that the Maryland Guard had "an
                    arrangement with the Colts." "When they have a player with a military
                    problem," he said, "they send him to us." The Dallas Cowboys had ten
                    players in the same National Guard division. The entire Philadelphia Eagles backfield was in the
                    reserves. The Miami Dolphins's management sought and obtained a delay in the draft
                    induction of a star linebacker to gain time to arrange a National Guard appointment.13
            
            As these professional sports examples reveal, vacancies in National Guard and reserve units were
                    highly coveted. Waiting lists for many units were long and openings were few. The Federal Bureau of
                    Investigation was brought into cases of alleged bribes to move people to the top of the waiting
                    lists. Because of the competition for National Guard and reserve positions, disadvantaged youths
                    were underrepresented. Almost all recruits were high school graduates, and many were college
                    graduates. In 1969-1970, for example, the college-educated enlistees in the Guard and reserves
                    exceeded by 28,000 those with college educations inducted into all the other services combined. Only
                    about one guardsman in one hundred was black.14
            
            Joining the Guard in May, 1969, Quayle was in many ways the typical Vietnam-era guardsman. He was a
                    white, college graduate. 
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 51-52.
                  
                     13
                            Life, LXI (December 9, 1966), 44-47, quotation p. 46.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 42; Baskir and Strauss, Chance and Circumstance,
                            48-50; Myra Mac-Pherson, Long Time Passing: Vietnam and the Haunted
                            Generation (Garden City, N.Y., 1984), 144-47.
               
                    
                    
                  INDIANA NATIONAL GUARD ENGINEERS RESTORE A COLLAPSED BRIDGE
                  
                  Courtesy of Military Department of Indiana.
                His enlistment presumably was not motivated by antiwar sentiment, since friends recall him
                    as being hawkish in his opinions. In 1970 the president of the National Guard Association estimated
                    that 90 percent of the Guard enlistments nationally were draft-motivated. At the end of 1968 Army
                    National Guard waiting lists nationwide contained 100,000 names. By the end of 1970 waiting lists
                    had disappeared everywhere. During 1971 draft pressure dissipated dramatically, and the Guard fell
                    to 45,000 men under-strength nationwide.15
            
            
               
                  15 Baskir and Strauss, Chance and Circumstance, 51; Newsweek, CXII (August 29, 1988), 23; Indianapolis News,
                        August 22, 1988.
            
            
            Guard recruitment statistics in Indiana corresponded with those of the nation. For the fiscal year
                    ending in June, 1965, most of which was before President Johnson's large scale deployment
                    of 
                        United States
                     combat forces to Vietnam, the Indiana Army National Guard had 9,564 officers and
                    enlisted men and was 208 men below authorized strength. The Indiana Air National Guard was eleven
                    men short. A year later the Army Guard's authorized strength in the state had grown to
                    11,502, largely because the Pentagon had restructured the 38th Division as one of three reserve
                    divisions comprising a Selected Reserve Force (SRF). The Hoosier Army Guard still remained
                    ninety-four men below its authorized level, however, and the Air Guard was 312 men short. The state
                    adjutant general's annual report for 1966 specifically traced the recruiting and retention
                    difficulties of the Indiana Air Force units to public discussion of possible activation of air
                    reservists for Vietnam duty. Because the war limited the availability of aircraft for training, the
                    Defense Department eventually restricted the Indiana Air Guard's actual strength to 82
                    percent of its authorized level, and the Hoosier air units remained understrength for the remainder
                    of the conflict.16
            
            Conversely, Army National Guard units in Indiana came to exceed authorized strength levels at the
                    peak of America's Vietnam involvement. By June, 1967, there were 11,605 Hoosier guardsmen,
                    which was nine over the established limit. The 1969 adjutant general's report put the Guard
                    at fifty-two men over its allotted quota in June. The report also indicated that, due to the
                    overstrength situation, "recruiting has been authorized on a limited basis since 1 April
                        1969."17 Information on waiting lists in Indiana at the time of
                    Quayle's enlistment in May is contradictory. Despite the overstrength reported by the
                    adjutant general in June, Pentagon records indicate that 99.2 percent-most but not
                    all—positions were filled in May. The same Pentagon source shows that Indiana Guard
                    strength was 94 percent a year later. The adjutant general reported that the Guard had 286
                    vacancies—97 percent of authorized strength-in June, 1970.18
            
            The Guard was popular because for most guardsmen going to Vietnam was only a very remote possibility,
                    and, furthermore, their training was often not too onerous. If a reservist failed to show up for a
                    monthly training assembly, he was technically AWOL (absent without leave) and subject to immediate
                    call-up to active duty, 
                  
                     16 Indiana, Adjutant General's Report
                            (1965), 1, 25, 31; ibid. (1966), 25, 33; ibid. (1969),
                            38-39.
                  
                     17 Indiana, Adjutant General's Report
                            (1969), 28. See also ibid., 26; and ibid. (1967), 33.
                  
                     18 Indianapolis News, August 19, 23, 27, 1988;
                            Indianapolis Star, August 21, 28, 1988; Indiana, Adjutant
                                General's Report (1970), 30.
               
                    
                    
                  INDIANA NATIONAL GUARDSMEN LEARNING TO CLEAN AND MAINTAIN THIRTY-CALIBER MACHINE GUN
                  
                  Courtesy of Military Department of Indiana.
                but that rarely happened. Records show that Quayle attended most of the required meetings.
                    Some members of some units stopped attending altogether without suffering any consequences. Guard
                    and reserve units also labored under the perennial problem of inadequate and outmoded equipment.
                    Such shortages often meant that training consisted of watching films and reading manuals rather than
                    hands-on, field training exercises.19
            
            For Indiana's 38th Infantry Division, training and equipment were far superior to that of
                    other divisions. Because of its designation in November, 1965, as part of the SRF, the Indiana Guard
                    received the latest equipment and increased training. Its high state of readiness also meant that if
                    any reserve units were activated for Vietnam service the 38th would be among them. Throughout 1967
                    and until May, 1968, when the division's SRF status ended, Hoosier 
                  
                     19 Baskir and Strauss, Chance and Circumstance,
                            49-50; Indianapolis Star, August 28, 1988.
               
                     guardsmen could not rest easy in the assumption that their good
                    fortune to be in the Guard would turn out to be a safe haven from the war.20
            
            In 1967 most guardsmen in America could feel fairly isolated from the Vietnam War, but they could not
                    feel isolated from danger at home. A plague of massive urban violence was sweeping America, and
                    governors across the country activated National Guard units to deal with the emergency. The rioters
                    were black, but white Americans were not their immediate target. Instead, they lashed out in
                    rampages of burning and looting aimed at the wretched ghetto neighborhoods in which they lived. When
                    police, reinforced by National Guardsmen, moved in to attempt to restore order black youths fought
                    back. These young blacks perceived the police and Guard as symbols of the racial, economic, and
                    social oppression that enraged them. The first major riot erupted in the summer of 1965 in the
                    streets of Los Angeles's Watts section. Thirty-four people were killed, and 15,000
                    guardsmen were activated. The following summer serious outbreaks of violence occurred in Chicago,
                    Cleveland, and over forty other places. The summer of 1967 brought eight major riots. Forty-three
                    people died in Detroit; in Newark police and guardsmen fired over 13,000 rounds of ammunition in
                    three days. The overwhelming majority of those killed in these uprisings were black.21
            
            Indiana was largely spared from the orgy of violence. The Guard in Gary, South Bend, and other
                    Hoosier cities was alerted or activated several times during the 1960s in preparation for possible
                    escalation of violent incidents, but application of the Guard's firepower was never
                    required. Indiana and its citizen soldiers were fortunate that the Guard never had to carry out
                    orders such as that of Governor Roger Branigin in 1966 to treat a riot "as insurrection and
                    put [it] down by any means."22 President Johnson's National
                    Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders investigated the riots of 1967 and found numerous examples of
                    needless shooting and killing by police and guardsmen in Detroit, Newark, and elsewhere. The most
                    common scenario reported was one of heavily armed soldiers and lawmen firing hundreds of rounds
                    indiscriminately at apartment buildings or fleeing protesters. The explanation for such behavior was
                    most often a combination of fear and inexperience in 
                  
                     20 Indiana, Adjutant General's Report
                            (1966), 25; Watt, "Citizen Soldiers," 187-88; Webster, Military History of the Indiana National Guard, 95-96.
                  
                     21 Frank Freidel and Alan Brinkley, America in the
                                Twentieth Century (5th ed., New York, 1982), 459-60; Walter LaFeber, Richard
                            Polenberg, and Nancy Woloch, The American Century: A History of the 
                                    United States
                                 since the 1890s (3rd ed., New York, 1986), 467-69.
                  
                     22 Quoted in Watt, "Citizen Soldiers," 189-92. See
                            also Indiana, Adjutant General's Report (1969), 33; ibid. (1970), 37; and James H. Madison, The Indiana Way: A State
                                History (Bloomington, 1986), 245-46.
               
                     riot control techniques. In the wake of these riots guardsmen
                    and other law enforcement officials began to receive better riot control training. The Pentagon
                    became concerned, in fact, that so much time was being spent on this training that the readiness of
                    Guard units as combat reservists was being sacrificed.23
            
            In 1968 a federal government study sounded a warning about the National Guard and reserves being a
                    refuge from the draft. Senator Richard Russell of Georgia, chairman of the Senate Armed Services
                    Committee, secured legislation that made activation easier. At the same time new strategic concerns
                    worldwide gave the joint chiefs of staff the opportunity to renew pressure for a decision that they
                    thought the president had too long delayed. Since 1965 the service chiefs had desired mobilization
                    of some reserve components. In January, 1968, a flare-up in Berlin and the North Korean capture of
                    the 
                        United States
                     Navy vessel Pueblo raised concern about those two perennial trouble
                    spots. Then came the shock of the Communists' Tet Offensive that placed 
                        United States
                     and South Vietnamese forces on the defensive throughout South Vietnam. The 
                        United States
                     commander in Vietnam, General William Westmoreland, requested 206,000 additional
                    troops. After soulsearching deliberations in Washington, President Johnson turned down this high
                    request but did authorize a few thousand reinforcements. For the first and only time some 37,000
                    reservists were activated. Many of these were air reservists who were sent to South Korea, but some
                    15,000 Army National Guardsmen and reservists went to South Vietnam. These troops ordered to
                    Indochina were only slightly over 1 percent of the total strength of the Guard and reserves and only
                    slightly over one-half of 1 percent of all those who served in Vietnam.24
            
            Despite the incredibly small chance of any particular National Guard unit going to Vietnam, one
                    Indiana unit was selected—Company D (Ranger), 151st Infantry, based in Greenfield with
                    its members also from Evansville, Muncie, Indianapolis, and elsewhere. Not only were the 204 Rangers
                    of Delta Company among the few guardsmen to serve in combat in Vietnam, they were an extraordinary
                    unit in almost every respect. At the time of their call-up to active duty on May 13, 1968, their
                    readiness and training was exceptionally high. They were 100 percent qualified as paratroopers and
                    jungle fighters and 97 percent had been awarded the Jungle 
                  
                     23
                            Report of the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders (New York
                                Times ed., New York, 1968), 1-9, 17-19, 497-506; Baskir and Strauss,
                                Chance and Circumstance, 50.
                  
                     24 Martin Binkin, U.S. Reserve Forces: The Problem of the
                                Weekend Warrior (Washington, D.C., 1974), 80-81; George C. Herring, America's Longest War: The 
                                    United States
                                 and Vietnam, 1950-1975 (2nd ed., New York, 1986), 193; Baskir and
                            Strauss, Chance and Circumstance, 50-52.
               
                     Expert Patch at the Army's Jungle Warfare Center in
                    Panama. They had completed their jungle training in Panama only in March. After activation, they
                    were requalified as paratroopers at Fort Benning, Georgia, and they arrived in Vietnam on December
                    27, 1968, assigned to the Second Field Force, 
                        United States
                     Army Vietnam. They dubbed their base camp at Bien Hoa "Camp Atterbury
                    East" after the Indiana Guard training center. Following additional incountry training with
                    the 199th Light Infantry Brigade at Bien Hoa, they were attached to Company F (Ranger), 51st
                    Infantry of the regular Army.25
            
            During Company D's combat deployment, Quayle joined the Guard and went through three months
                    of training as a welder at Camp Aberdeen, Maryland.26 His enlistment at a time
                    when his state had guardsmen in Vietnam could be cited as evidence that Quayle's choice of
                    the Guard was no guarantee of avoiding combat. Of course with the Rangers already activated, the
                    call-up of any other Hoosier unit was highly unlikely.
            The Rangers of Company D were what GIs in Vietnam called "Lurps"—a
                    nickname derived from LRRP meaning Long-Range Reconnaissance Patrol.27 Their
                    mission was to provide long-range reconnaissance, surveillance, and target acquisition for the corps
                    and field force units. They were to engage any enemy unit that they encountered that was of their
                    own size or smaller. As often happens in a combat area of operations, they also engaged units of
                    larger size. In addition, they were to plan ambushes along enemy lines of supply and communication.
                    In other words, the Rangers were to slip into areas of suspected enemy operations, snoop around, get
                    out, and only fight if they had to or if the opportunity for surprise presented itself.28
            
            In actual fact, they did a tremendous amount of fighting. This company of 204 men suffered 110
                    casualties and received 110 Purple Hearts. They also were awarded 19 Silver Stars, 175 Bronze Stars,
                    120 Air Medals, 87 Army Commendation Medals, 19 Indiana Distinguished Service Crosses, and 204
                    Indiana Commendations. The unit was presented with a Combat Infantry Streamer, and 98 percent of the
                    men earned the coveted Combat Infantryman's Badge.
            Two of the Rangers were killed in action. Sergeant Robert T. Smith of Indianapolis was killed on
                    August 12, 1969. He was shot while point man on a patrol. Despite his wounds, he returned fire and
                    enabled other members of the patrol to take cover. He was 
                  
                     25 Indianapolis News, November 19, 1969; Watt,
                            "Citizen Soldiers," 188-89.
                  
                     26 Indianapolis News, August 27, 1988.
                  
                     27 An alternate designation was LRP for Long Range Patrol. See Olson,
                                Dictionary of the Vietnam War, 514.
                  
                     28 Indianapolis News, November 26, 1969.
               
                    
                    
                  Courtesy of Indianapolis News.
                  
               
                     awarded the Silver Star. Sergeant Smith had earlier received
                    the Bronze Star for rushing into a hot LZ—a helicopter landing zone under
                    fire—and extinguishing the smoke grenades marking the LZ. His actions prevented the
                    helicopters from landing and probably prevented heavy loss of life.
            Specialist Four Charles K. Larkins of Indianapolis was killed February 11, 1969. He received the
                    Bronze Star for maintaining radio communications with a helicopter force despite the fact that his
                    position was under heavy enemy fire. The company also lost First Lieutenant George L. Kleiber of
                    Indianapolis in a helicopter crash on September 4, 1969. Private First Class Marvin D. Tucker of
                    Osgood, another noncombat casualty, died in an automobile accident on January 17, 1969.29
            
            Besides Company D's accomplishments and honors, it was also exceptional in the welcome that
                    it received upon its return to Indiana in November, 1969. Most soldiers returned home from Vietnam
                    singly—alone and without fanfare except the private embraces of their families. In
                    contrast, the state of Indiana arranged an elaborate welcome home ceremony for Company D at the
                    Tyndall Armory in Indianapolis. An Army band played, the unit paraded in, and there were speeches by
                    the governor and other dignitaries. Governor Edgar D. Whitcomb told the guardsmen, "People
                    all over the world pay tribute to your valor and action."30 Mayor
                    Richard Lugar proclaimed "Company D Day" in Indianapolis. In a period when antiwar
                    sentiment in America was rising rapidly, many in the audience wore buttons to declare their
                    membership in the "Silent Majority"—a phrase that President Richard M.
                    Nixon had coined in a speech on November 3 asking Americans to support the war.31
            
            The Vietnam era was a time of contradictions. Forty-five miles south of the Indiana-Kentucky line is
                    Bardstown, Kentucky, with 5,800 residents—about half the size of Company D's
                    home of Greenfield, Indiana. Bardstown, too, sent its local National Guard unit to Vietnam in 1968,
                    and fifteen of the guardsmen died there. Four of that small town's sons died on one day,
                    June 19, 1969, at a place called Firebase Tomahawk north of Da Nang. The bodies were returned to
                    Bardstown just before the Fourth of July. Instead of parades and picnics, Mayor Gus Wilson of
                    Bardstown ordered four days of mourning and the addition of the four names to the town's
                    war memorial. In the weeks that followed, the list of names grew longer on the cenotaph in the
                    courthouse square. Ten years after 
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., November 19, 1969.
                  
                     30 Indianapolis Star, November 27, 1969.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid.; Indianapolis News, November 26, 1969; Military
                            Department of Indiana, Official Program of Welcome Ceremony for Company D (Ranger), 151st
                            Infantry, November 26, 1969; Herring, America's Longest War,
                            229-30.
               
                     the war, Wilson was still mayor and reflected in an interview
                    that "though I'm still a patriot, I ended up very disillusioned."32
            
            The peak of the domestic tension caused by the Vietnam War came in the spring of 1970. President
                    Nixon sent 
                        United States
                     forces into Cambodia, and the nation, especially its college campuses, erupted in
                    protest. In many places governors ordered National Guardsmen to join civil police authorities in
                    containing these demonstrations. In one of the most tragic incidents of the Vietnam era, 
                        Ohio
                     guardsmen shot and killed four young people at 
                        Kent
                     State University on May 4, 1970. In Indiana there were major student protests at
                    Purdue, Indiana University, and Notre Dame, and smaller demonstrations elsewhere. There were no
                    serious incidents in Indiana and no deployment of Indiana Guard units. This peaceful outcome was in
                    many cases attributable to the restraint and common sense of both state officials and student
                    leaders in Indiana. Why the 
                        Ohio
                     guardsmen were walking across the 
                        Kent
                     State campus with chambered rounds in their weapons has never been fully explained, and
                    such a procedure was not consistent with established procedures for weapons use followed by the
                    Indiana Guard.33
            
            The late 1960s was a unique time in the history of the Indiana National Guard. Enlistments were at
                    peak levels. After 1970 declining draft calls and eventually the end of the draft created manpower
                    shortages. The Army National Guard in Indiana was 115 men understrength in 1971, and a year later
                    the shortage was 627. "Maintenance of strength during the past fiscal year has proved to be
                    a problem," the adjutant general reported in 1972, because of the "curtailment of
                    the draft" and the expiration of enlistments of draft-eligible men who joined during fiscal
                    year 1966.34 New recruiting efforts were undertaken, including the recruitment
                    of women for the first time in 1973. The Guard also returned to the routine of state civil defense
                    service. Tornadoes, blizzards, and a major strike in the southern Indiana coal fields required
                    activation of the Guard during the 1970s. Quayle served in a headquarters detachment writing press
                    releases until his enlistment expired in 1975.35
            
            During the Vietnam era over one million men, approximately twenty thousand of them Hoosiers, served
                    in the Guard and reserves and provided national service. Seven and a half million other 
                  
                     32 Quoted in Stanley Karnow, Vietnam: A History (New
                            York, 1983), 21-22.
                  
                     33 Lori A. Keim, "Indiana Student Protests during the
                            Cambodia-Kent Crisis," paper presented at the regional meeting of Phi Alpha Theta,
                            University of Notre Dame, April 11, 1987; Watt, "Citizen Soldiers,"
                            192-93; Indianapolis Star, May 9, 1970. See also Mitchell K. Hall,
                            "A Time for War: The Church of God's Response to Vietnam," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIX (December, 1983), 285-304.
                  
                     34 Indiana, Adjutant General's Report
                            (1972), 1, 28, 30. See also ibid. (1971), 28, 30.
                  
                     35 Watt, "Citizen Soldiers," 193-200; Indianapolis
                                Star, August 28, 1988.
               
                     men served on active duty; sixteen million avoided military
                    service altogether.36 Guardsmen attended training exercises, helped during
                    disasters, and supplemented law enforcement. With the important exception of the Rangers of Company
                    D, Indiana guardsmen mirrored the national pattern. Their choice of the Guard enabled them to escape
                    the hardships and sacrifices that active military duty often entailed. That decision is part of
                    their personal Vietnam legacy. Politicians and voters must determine for themselves what impact that
                    decision has today on their qualifications for national leadership.
            Ever since George Washington, candidates for the nation's highest offices have benefited
                    from a record of heroism or participation in military combat. Not all presidents and vice-presidents
                    have been war heroes or even veterans. In this century, Woodrow Wilson and Franklin Roosevelt were
                    successful nonmilitary politicians. On the other hand, Captain Harry Truman, General Dwight
                    Eisenhower, and Lieutenant John Kennedy made great political capital of their military service, but
                    that was before Vietnam.
            The Vietnam War polarized Americans unlike any other 
                        United States
                     military effort, and that division, although in the past, has not been firmly bridged.
                    For many Americans military service, ranging from Vietnam combat on one extreme to National Guard
                    weekend drill on the other, is a proud experience. In the minds of others, due in part to the legacy
                    of antiwar sentiment during the Vietnam era, any military service is a dubious if not damning
                    distinction. Many politicians today still think that active military duty is a political plus.
                    George Bush's 1988 Republican presidential campaign highlighted his heroism as a combat
                    pilot. On the Democratic ticket, vice-presidential candidate Lloyd Bentsen also had a distinguished
                    military record, and presidential nominee Michael Dukakis served in Korea as a clerk-typist. Among
                    the standard bearers of the two major parties, Quayle alone carried an ambiguous record of part-time
                    military service during wartime.37 The conservative Quayle was scarcely a
                    symbolic son of the Age of Aquarius. For his generation, however, where he was in 1969 matters. The
                    ambiguity surrounding his National Guard service is part of the enigma of that era.
            
               
                  36 Baskir and Strauss, Chance and Circumstance, 5, 53.
                        The Indiana Guard total was extrapolated from the Indiana Adjutant General reports, 1965-1972.
               
                  37 Newsweek, CXII (July 25, 1988),32; ibid. (August
                        29, 1988), 27; Indianapolis News, August 20, 29, 1988; Indianapolis Star,
                        September 4, 1988.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               MAJOR TAYLOR AT THE PARC DES PRINCES, PARIS, MAY 27,
                        1901
               Courtesy of Indiana State Library.
            
            
               Major Taylor: The Extraordinary Career of a Champion Bicycle Racer. By Andrew
                    Ritchie. (San Francisco: Bicycle Books, 1988. Pp. 304. Illustrations, notes and sources,
                    bibliography, index. $19.95.)
            Marshall Walter "Major" Taylor was an extraordinary person who achieved much in his
                    short life. An individual of unequalled athletic ability, he rose from humble and poor Hoosier
                    origins to become 
                        United States
                     and world champion in the now largely forgotten professional sport of bicycle racing.
                    In 1901 he embarked upon a three-month tour of Europe that earned him $10,000 and
                    accolades from citizens all over the continent. That he accomplished all of this before his
                    twenty-second birthday is extraordi- 
                    
                  MAJOR TAYLOR WITH DAISY TAYLOR AND THREE-YEAR-OLD SYDNEY, PARIS, 1908
                  Courtesy of Indiana State Library.
               
                     nary enough; that he did so at the time when Jim Crow and
                    imperialism were flourishing makes his achievements all the more remarkable because he was an
                    African-American. Neglected by historians, Major Taylor emerges from journalist Andrew
                    Ritchie's engaging biography as a complex and fascinating figure.
            With varying degrees of success, Ritchie discusses Taylor's life against the backdrop of
                    larger social and cultural developments, such as urbanization, the rise of modern sports, and race
                    relations. This provides an indispensable understanding of the meteoric rise and subsequent decline
                    in Taylor's fortunes. Taylor's self-confidence and dogged determination, which
                    enabled him to climb to the top of his sport, created many enemies among whites in the 
                        United States
                    . At the same time, his grace under pressure as well as his respect for and deference to
                    the white world enabled him to befriend and obtain at crucial points the support of several
                    important bicycling promoters both at home and abroad.
            Ritchie convincingly portrays Taylor as a man whose feet were planted in two different worlds but who
                    belonged totally in neither. Suspended halfway between the man-made heaven of the superstar athlete
                    and the hell of racial oppression, Taylor lived a precarious dual existence. He was simultaneously
                    praised and cursed, applauded and assaulted. With the end of his bicycling career Taylor's
                    life, according to Ritchie, entered "a gradual process of loss and decline."
                    Financial failure was followed by the collapse of his marriage and the loss of his health. When
                    Taylor died in Chicago in 1932, he was penniless and alone.
            In spite of the hardships he endured as an African-American in a white world, Ritchie concludes that
                    Taylor "never became a bitter man" or "sank permanently into
                    self-pity" (pp. 258, 252). Undoubtedly, his profound commitment to giving the best that was
                    in him, both on and off the track, constitutes his enduring legacy. By illuminating the contours of
                    that commitment and legacy, Ritchie's biography dramatically recaptures the man, his times,
                    and his significance.
            MONROE H. Little, JR., is assistant
                    professor of history and director of Afro-American Studies at Indiana University, Indianapolis. He
                    is currently completing a biography of Indiana civil rights attorney Henry J. Richardson.
         
         
            
               The Belgians of Indiana: With a Brief History of the Land from Which They Came.
                    By Henry A. Verslype. (Nappannee, Ind.: Henry A. Verslype, 1987. Pp. 294. Illustrations, notes,
                    tables. $25.95.)
            Henry A. Verslype was not content to spend his retirement from the Ball-Band plant in Mishawaka in
                    idle pursuits. Moved by the memories of his Belgian immigrant parents moving to the city 
                    
                  MEMBERS OF THE BELGIAN BICYCLE CLUB, MISHAWAKA, 1912
                  Courtesy of the author.
                in 1923, he decided to write a history of Belgians not only in his own community but in
                    the entire state of Indiana. The result is an interesting compilation of names, dates, and events
                    important to Indiana Belgians and a contribution to an aspect of state history that has largely been
                    neglected.
            
               The Belgians of Indiana is not a work of detailed scholarly analysis, but it does
                    offer much fascinating detail on the experience of this ethnic group in the Midwest. Verslype
                    explains how Belgian settlers entered rural, southern Indiana, particularly 
                        Perry County
                    , in the 1820s and 1830s and industrial centers such as the glass-making plants in 
                        Hartford City
                     in the 1880s, bringing valuable work skills with them. Although few in number, Belgians
                    were scattered in several locations by the late nineteenth century and were making distinct
                    contributions to life in the Hoosier state. For instance, Washington C. DePauw, a son of a Belgian
                    immigrant, was a Salem lawyer who donated enough money to a financially troubled Asbury College in
                    1883 that the institution changed its name to reflect its gratitude to its benefactor.
            Most of Verslype's attention, however, is directed toward the Belgian community with which
                    he is most familiar—Mishawaka. He delves adroitly into the pages of the Gazette Van Moline, a Flemish-language newspaper published in Illinois, to mine its
                    "Mishawaka column" for vivid details of everyday life in the ethnic community in
                    this century. He describes ethnic organizations, sporting events, the rise and decline of
                    Belgian-American business establishments, and something of the assimilative process in the town. At
                    times Verslype strays from his main focus. His discussion 
                    
                  GROUNDBREAKING FOR BK CLUB BUILDING,
                                MISHAWAKA, 1930
                  Courtesy of the author
               
                     of the history of Belgium does not explain what it was in that
                    history that fostered emigration, and a chapter on Belgian-Americans who made "noteworthy
                    contributions" to America and the world is out of place. But he eventually returns to
                    providing numerous bits of interesting information on Belgian-Americans in 
                        St. Joseph County
                    .
            In the end, Verslype declares that "we did not succumb to the ‘melting
                    pot’ and lose identity." To some extent Belgians in Mishawaka did retain an
                    ethnic associational life and identity for several decades, and his book demonstrates this. But in
                    his zeal to record the "contributions" of Belgians in businefs, sports, and other
                    areas of American life, he does indeed reveal the degree to which his community has succumbed. His
                    father's identity was primarily tied to a goal of making some extra money and
                    reconstituting and supporting an immigrant family, as Verslype infers. The author, however, is
                    intent on demonstrating what Belgians gave to a nation. In this shift of focus, from a family to a
                    nation, is to be found a massive shift in identity and a clear example of
                    "melting." The history presented here is not one of creating a separate identity
                    but one of following a particular but continuous path—through business and
                    sports—to assimilation.
            JOHN BODNAR is professor of history at Indiana University,
                    Bloomington, and director of the Oral History Research Center. Among his publications is The Transplanted: A History of Immigrants in Urban America (1985).
         
         
            
               Knox County History. Edited by Maxine Batman; project director, Helen Rose.
                    (Paducah, Ky.: Vincennes Historical and Antiquarian Society, in cooperation with Turner Publishing
                    Company, 1988. Pp. 537. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography, index. $57.75, plus
                    $2.00 postage.)
            The oldest county in Indiana has a new county history. Sponsored by the Vincennes Historical and
                    Antiquarian Society, Knox County History is the work of many authors. Under the
                    guidance of an editor and a project director, this large book was put together by a group of
                    volunteers, all operating under the direction of a twenty-person honorary committee. Individuals
                    with 
                        Knox County
                     origins were invited to submit brief family histories. Hundreds of contributors
                    recorded their genealogies for this volume, more than half of which is family history. The book also
                    includes sections on Vincennes history, memorials, and organizations, and a bibliography and an
                    index.
            Since the family-oriented book emphasizes the who as well as the what of 
                        Knox County
                     history, the locally sponsored book is a supplement to, rather than a replacement of,
                    previous county histories. Editor Maxine Batman has written brief biographies of such figures as
                    George Rogers Clark and William Henry Harrison. The 
                    
                  PLANTING WATERMELON, KNOX COUNTY, 1942
                  Courtesy Byron R. Lewis Historical Library, Vincennes University.
                book also includes more recent citizens of 
                        Knox County
                    , among them former governor Matthew E. Welsh, former state supreme court justice Curtis
                    Shake, and former Vincennes University president Isaac Beckes.
            Local educational and religious activities are included as well. The book will provide worthwhile
                    recreation for many readers. Those curious about the Fortnightly Club can find the title easily in
                    the table of contents for Vincennes; Cypress Swamp is mentioned in the table of contents for 
                        Knox County
                    . Readers interested in a particular 
                        Knox County
                     family may find the last name listed alphabetically in the family history section.
                    Numerous illustrations add to the book's entertainment value.
            The book is a valuable reference tool for those studying 
                        Knox County
                     inhabitants and agencies. It comes with a four-page index of family names and page
                    numbers; the separate tables of contents for the first two sections are helpful as well.
            Knox County will be proudly observing its bicentennial in 1990. Since every county in Indiana was
                    originally part of 
                        Knox County
                    , many Hoosiers will want to participate in the celebration. The people of 
                        Knox County
                     have worked to make this possible. The local Francis Vigo Chapter of the Daughters of
                    the American Revolution has recently reprinted the 1911 History of 
                            Knox County
                        , written by George E. Greene. Both this reprint and the present, 
                    
                  MAKING APPLE BUTTER, KNOX COUNTY, 1936
                  Courtesy Byron R. Levis Historical Library, Vincennes University.
               
                     family-oriented history make it possible for people throughout
                    Indiana to study their own counties' early period in 
                        Knox County
                     history and decide how to celebrate the bicentennial. Knox County
                    History is available from the Vincennes Historical and Antiquarian Society, P.O. Box 487,
                    Vincennes, Ind. 47591.
            ROYAL PURCELL reviewed Vincennes: A Pictorial
                        History in the September, 1989, issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                History
            
         
         
            
               Socialism in the Heartland: The Midwestern Experience, 1900-1925. Edited by
                    Donald T. Critchlow. (Notre Dame: University of Notre Dame Press, 1986. Pp. viii, 221. Notes,
                    tables, figures, index. $21.95.)
            This fine collection of essays analyzes the growth and ultimate failure of the socialist movement in
                    one state (Indiana), five cities (Milwaukee; Marion, Indiana; Flint, Michigan; Dayton, 
                        Ohio
                    ; and Minneapolis), and one union (District 12, Illinois United Mine Workers of
                    America). The editor's introduction is a valuable summary of the historiography of the
                    subject and guide to the significance of each of the essays.
            In "The Socialist Party in Indiana, 1900-1925," James R. Simmons notes the
                    Socialist party's electoral successes in a score of Hoosier small and midsize towns and
                    cities and its critical failure to attract support in the rural areas and larger cities of the
                    state. In those cities where the party had a brief tenure of power, the limitations on home rule,
                    noted in several of the essays, narrowly defined the areas in which socialist reforms might be
                    carried out. Simmons recounts the impact of World War I's "loyalty"
                    frenzy and the postwar reactionary cycle on the Indiana Socialist party and raises the provocative
                    possibility, also raised in other essays, that during the 1920s the enfeebled party lost members to
                    the rising Ku Klux Klan, which was nowhere stronger than in Indiana with its own agenda of
                    "reform."
            The essays on specific midwestern cities reveal certain common denominators, among them the home rule
                    problem, the impact of World War I, and the postwar splintering of the party, but each city had its
                    peculiar socialist experience. In "Casting a Wide Net: The Milwaukee Movement to
                    1920," Sally Miller attributes the growth of the party in the Cream City to the
                    "twin pillars" of organized labor and the large German community. The crumbling of
                    those pillars, resulting from labor's growing disaffection during the war and changes in
                    the city's demography, tore irreparable holes in the party's "wide
                    net," but its continuing vitality was seen in the elections and re-elections of Daniel Hoan
                    and Frank Zeidler. Socialist strength among workers was not translated into successful  reform in Marion, Indiana, but Errol Wayne Stevens ("The
                    Socialist Party in Marion, Indiana") argues persuasively that the party survived the
                    disastrous impact of World War I, entered the postwar period as strong as it had been before the
                    war, and then withered in the shifting atmosphere of "Normalcy," in which the
                    "110% Americanism" of the American Legion combined with the appeal of
                    the Ku Klux Klan to destroy the party.
            In "Restoring Consensus in Flint, Michigan: The Socialist Party in Municipal Politics,
                    1910-1912," Richard W. Judd credits the Socialist party mayor and two city councilmen with
                    introducing a few of the party's "immediate reforms" following its
                    electoral successes in 1910. Those successes only hardened the determination of Flint's
                    power structure to restore the community's "consensus" by, among other
                    tactics, threatening the job security of workers who voted the Socialist ticket and by raising the
                    specter of industrial relocation. The variety of Socialist party experiences at the local level is
                    underscored in John T. Walker's essay, "The Dayton Socialists and World War I:
                    Surviving the White Terror," in which Walker describes the ways Dayton Socialists carefully
                    phrased their antiwar sentiments and goals without violating the savage federal Espionage and
                    Sedition Acts (and their state and local complements), which spelled ruin for the party and its
                    leaders elsewhere. (Walker mistakenly declares that Eugene V. Debs was convicted of
                    "treason.") Having weathered the storm of the "White Terror" of
                    wartime suppression and the postwar Red Scare, the party failed during the 1920s to respond
                    effectively to the sometimes brutal attacks of the American Legion and the inroads of the Ku Klux
                    Klan. The success of the Socialist party in identifying itself with the mainstream reform impulses
                    of the Progressive era is the theme of David Paul Nord's "Hothouse Socialism:
                    Minneapolis, 1910-1925." The "hothouse" for socialism in Minneapolis was
                    the political environment created by the city's long and bitter struggles over utilities
                    regulation or ownership and management's drive for the open shop, the latter of which
                    pitted the Minneapolis Citizen's Alliance against organized labor, led by the International
                    Association of Machinists. For a time the Socialist party forged a successful alliance with reform
                    and organized labor forces, capable of electing Thomas Van Lear as the Socialist mayor in 1916. As
                    elsewhere, however, World War I damaged the alliance, but the socialists in Minneapolis retained
                    sufficient vitality in the postwar years to join with other liberal and reform forces to help shape
                    the city's solutions to its changing urban problems.
            John H. M. Laslett's study of the Illinois mine workers ("Swan Song or New Social
                    Movement? Socialism and Illinois District 12, United Mine Workers of Amereica, 1919-1926")
                    concludes that the decline of the Socialist party and radicalism in the state were not coterminous
                    and that the vitality of radicalism could be found  well into
                    the 1920s in movements such as the cooperative movement.
            Taken altogether, these essays demonstrate that the socialist experience in America in the first
                    quarter of the century was a complex and varied one and that further studies of the kind will no
                    doubt prove the inadequacy of any single, overarching explanation for the decline of the Socialist
                    party.
            J. ROBERT CONSTANTINE is professor of history at Indiana
                    State University, Terre Haute
         
         
            
               Threshing in the Midwest, 1820-1940: A Study of Traditional Culture and Technological
                        Change. By J. Sanford Rikoon. (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1988. Pp. xiii, 214.
                    Illustrations, figures, tables, appendixes, notes, bibliography, index. $35.00.)
            Technological change in American agriculture has long been the domain of economic historians who have
                    sought to understand patterns of diffusion and adoption of innovations and to explain the effect of
                    the adoption of a new technology on agricultural productivity. Complimenting these studies have been
                    works by historians of technology that have examined the internal development of particular
                    technological systems.
            J. Sanford Rikoon's Threshing in the Midwest, 1820-1940 offers a different
                    portrait of technological change in the rural Midwest. Approaching his topic from the perspectives
                    of folklife and rural sociology, Rikoon studies how rural midwestern society and culture responded
                    to changing technologies. As he states:
                        Actual on-farm practices are emphasized over mechanical details and technological designs
                            because of an assumption that the evolution of any new technology, whether hand-tool or
                            machine, is not necessarily synonymous with either its use or its method of employment.
                            … But people adapt as well as adopt. They alter their lifestyles before, during,
                            and after adoption of a new device (p. xi).
                     Parenthetically, the only factual errors which were noted in the book were in rather minor
                    details of technical description.
            More than many occupational practices on the farm, threshing was charged with sociocultural meaning
                    to rural midwesterners. "People don't farm like they used to," Rikoon
                    quotes an 
                        Ohio
                     farmer (p. x), and "they don't thresh together anymore." Threshing in the Midwest, however, refutes the popularly held belief that it was
                    mechanization per se that transformed traditional, cooperative farm communities
                    into individualistic agribusiness enterprises. Manual threshing techniques—flailing or
                    horse treading—practiced by individual farm families during the first half of the
                    nineteenth century required little inter-farm cooperation. The increasingly complex mechanization of
                    the threshing process, the cost of equipment, and 
                    
                  THRESHING IN INDIANA, AUGUST, 1912
                  Courtesy Bass Photo Company Collection, Indiana Historical Society
               
                    
                    
                  THRESHING in INDIANA
                  
                  Courtesy Bass Photo Company Collection, Indiana Historical Society.
                the concomitant demand for larger amounts of labor stimulated ever greater degrees of
                    cooperative behavior. Rikoon's account of the mechanization of threshing leads us from
                    small, reciprocal, laborsharing arrangements among a few farmers to larger neighborhood
                    "threshing rings" which culminated in formally structured, business-like threshing
                    cooperatives. The adoption of the small tractor-drawn combine in the 1930s ended the era of
                    cooperative threshing.
            
               Threshing in the Midwest achieves its goal. In no small part, the strength of
                    Rikoon's argument and the richness of his narrative rest on his extensive use of informants
                    who obviously enjoyed "talking threshing" with the author. The story they tell is
                    supplemented by a range of firsthand published and manuscript sources— farmers'
                    diaries, account books, autobiographies, etc.—which Rikoon has thoroughly mined for
                    information. It is, nevertheless, the presence of the old farmers "talking
                    threshing" that distinguishes Threshing in the Midwest from other studies
                    of technological change in American agriculture.
            PETER H. COUSINS is curator of agriculture and industry at
                    the Henry Ford Museum & Greenfield Village, Dearborn, Michigan, and has written extensively
                    on the history of agricultural technology.
         
         
         
            
               Précis ou Abrégé des Voyages, Travaux, et Recherches
                        de C. S. Rafinesque (1833): The Original Version of A Life of Travels (1836). Edited by Charles Boewe, Georges Reynaud, and Beverly Seaton. (Amsterdam: North-Holland
                    Publishing Company, 1987. Pp. 113. Illustrations, notes, appendix, index. Paperbound,
                    $34.75.)
            Constantine Samuel Rafinesque first came to America in 1802 at the age of eighteen and immediately
                    set out to explore the continent's flora and fauna. In 1805 he went back to Europe and
                    spent ten years in Sicily, where he continued his scientific expeditions. On his return to America,
                    his valuable collections and library were lost in a shipwreck, and he headed west to recoup his
                    fortunes. For seven years he taught natural history at Transylvania University, Lexington, Kentucky,
                    then settled in Philadelphia. In 1836 he published A Life of Travels, an
                    autobiographical work that attracted little notice at the time. In the twentieth century, however,
                    scholars have become interested in Rafinesque's scientific writings and controversial
                    claims to discoveries. His recollections of his voyages constitute an important source for
                    understanding his accomplishments.
            Rafinesque first wrote A Life of Travels in French. He sent the manuscript to his
                    sister in France intending that it be published by the Société de
                    Géographie de Paris. But his sister died before the manuscript was forwarded to it, and
                    three years later Rafinesque translated it into English. The earlier French version, preserved by
                    the family in France, has now been made available by Rafinesque's great-great-grandnephew.
                    The editors of this work have produced a handsomely illustrated volume with a useful introduction,
                    an index identifying persons mentioned by Rafinesque, and an appendix on portraits of the
                    naturalist. Because the English version is readily available in modern editions, the main value of
                    this publication is to clear up ambiguities, and the editors have carefully noted all the
                    differences between the two. Their informative, detailed notes and bibliographical information are a
                    helpful introduction to the study of Rafinesque.
            As a source to be mined by historians seeking knowledge of early nineteenth century America,
                    Rafinesque's work is somewhat disappointing because of the meagerness of the description
                    and interpretation. Originally intended for a group interested in geography, the book provides more
                    information on routes than on the places or the many persons he met. He alludes, for example, to
                    squabbles that marked his years at Transylvania, but these are left disappointingly vague.
                    Rafinesque does indicate that the students there had scant interest in natural history, although he
                    did attract students to his language courses in Italian. Rafinesque's extensive  travels are indeed impressive and his acquaintances were wide-ranging.
                    This tantalizing glance at his interesting life makes one wish he had also written the more detailed
                    memoirs which he contemplated but never produced.
            SYLVIA NEELY is associate professor of history at Indiana
                    University-Purdue University at Fort Wayne and is writing a book on Lafayette's political
                    career during the French Restoration.
         
         
            
               Prairie Grass Roots: An Iowa Small Town in the Early Twentieth Century. By
                    Thomas J. Morain. (Ames: Iowa State University Press, 1988. Pp. xviii, 287. Maps, illustrations,
                    tables, figures, notes, index. $24.95.)
            The Midwest has long enjoyed a disproportionate share of attention from social scientists and others
                    who seek the typical in America. And although the 
                        United States
                     has been a nation of cities for more than half a century, the small town continues to
                    fascinate scholars who seek the typical stage setting for the American drama. The middle is seen as
                    more typical than the periphery, the small community more typical than the metropolis. Taken to an
                    extreme—finding the middle of the middle of the middle—the very essence of
                    American life ought to be found in a small town located in the middle of the state of Iowa.
                    Jefferson, a community of five thousand people sixty miles northwest of Des Moines, meets the
                    requirements admirably. Under the guiding hand of Thomas J. Morain, a social historian as well as a
                    Jefferson native, this small Iowa town comes alive in the pages of Prairie Grass
                    Roots.
            Morain had a thorough preparation for this book. He grew up in Jefferson among family, friends, and a
                    basement full of bound volumes of the Jefferson Bee, the local newspaper that his
                    father edited. Newspaper articles and editorials are the basis for most of Morain's
                    insights into Jefferson's history, but these are fleshed out considerably through
                    interviews with local residents, many of them no doubt lifelong acquaintances of the author. The
                    tacit assumption that editorials offer an accurate glimpse of contemporary public opinion is hard to
                    justify, but the recollections of Jeffersonians about their pasts nearly always ring true as Morain
                    skillfully sets them in the broader context of the world outside.
            The textbook version of twentieth century history that seems to have been Morain's guide to
                    studying Jefferson often fails to illuminate local experience, which might have been at least as
                    interesting as the typical Jeffersonian's reaction to the Red Scare, Prohibition, the Ku
                    Klux Klan, or Franklin D. Roosevelt. Jefferson seems to have been only slightly touched by many of
                    the great themes around which national history is written, and when outside events did impinge upon
                    the town, there was always a variety of responses and reactions. No community of like-minded people
                         marching to a national cadence, Jefferson was typical in
                    the sense that it embraced variety from the start and it dealt with change only when necessary.
            The author neatly straddles the insider-outsider problem that often plagues community studies. Of the
                    two perspectives, his insider role is clearly the more valuable because he is able to sense the
                    nuances of meaning in what people wrote and spoke, translating the local language he knows so well
                    into the language of scholarship. The introduction to the book, written by Richard S. Kirkendall,
                    editor of the Henry A. Wallace Series on Agricultural History and Rural Studies, claims that Prairie Grass Roots fits the mode of the "new rural history,"
                    defined as "the systematic study of human behavior over time in rural
                    environments." Fortunately, this is an overstatement. Morain strives to adopt such a stance
                    though it seems not to capture his attention nearly as much as the real stuff he is writing about.
                    He does not fall into the trap of the scientist with notebook in hand, watching "human
                    behavior in a rural environment." Morain's strategy works best when he
                    concentrates on Jefferson and forgets the methodological strictures of his discipline. He writes
                    with intelligence, rarely holds his subjects up for evaluation, and never chides them. It is a
                    noteworthy approach.
            JOHN C. HUDSON is professor of geography, Northwestern
                    University, Evanston, Illinois. He is the author of Plains Country Towns (1985), a
                    study of small-town formation in North Dakota.
         
         
            
               Spirit Fruit: A Gentle Utopia. By H. Roger Grant. (DeKalb: Northern Illinois
                    University Press, 1988. Pp. xiv, 203. Illustrations, figures, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $22.50.)
            By generally accepted measures of the success of communitarian ventures, the Spirit Fruit Society
                    triumphed, according to University of Akron historian H. Roger Grant. That it survived and
                    flourished for twenty-nine years, 1901-1930, a durability rare for utopian colonies, is evidence
                    enough of its achievement and may offer lessons to today's seekers of alternate
                    life-styles. Indeed, the heart of the matter is how it managed this longevity. In short, Spirit
                    Fruit had the good fortune to be led by the loving and loveable Jacob Beilhart, who assembled a
                    small and therefore manageable group of hardworking, self-sacrificing, compatible individuals. The
                    "gentle" band, whose diverse talents fostered economic stability, strove for
                    personal improvement in pleasant environments where domestic arrangements, including private living
                    quarters, allowed for total freedom of relationships.
            Born in 
                        Ohio
                     in 1867 to a Lutheran father and Mennonite mother, Beilhart became a Seventh Day
                    Adventist preacher in Kansas and Michigan, before expulsion because of his New Thoughtist mind cure
                    practices. These influences in addition to the  metaphysics of
                    Theosophy and the libertine writings of free love advocate Edward Carpenter went into
                    Beilhart's "Universal Life," or "Spirit Fruit,"
                    religion. The eclectic faith stressed the value of unselfishness. Returning to 
                        Ohio
                    , the "incurably religious" Beilhart launched his Spirit Fruit Society
                    at Lisbon in 1901. Typically numbering less than a dozen permanent adult residents and several
                    children, the group moved to downtown Chicago in 1904, staying several years in that hostile climate
                    before moving to In-gleside, Illinois. Here the agrarians built a remarkable Temple House, replete
                    with Arts- and Crafts-style furnishings and innovative utilities. After Beilhart's untimely
                    death in 1908, the communards held together and migrated to California in 1914, finally settling on
                    a hilltop near Soquel. Except for a brief time of unsavory leadership, they lived out the next
                    fifteen years in relative peace and security. The scattering of the dwindling flock came in 1930
                    primarily as a result of the death of the chief upholder of the society.
            The author is to be commended for bringing together in book form the results of his painstaking
                    research and his previous articles on Spirit Fruit. Particularly welcome is his placing his subject
                    in the context of, or in contact with, similarly motivated movements, organizations, and
                    personalities. Historians have not yet documented the networks of models for the perfect society,
                    especially the turn-of-the-century variety, but this study puts another piece in the puzzle. As a
                    result, Grant correctly observes, the understanding of the continuity of utopian enterprises through
                    the nineteenth and twentieth centuries is enhanced.
            ROBERT M. TAYLOR, JR., is on the staff
                    of the Indiana Historical Society. His most recent publication is "Panaceas from Duneland:
                    Bruce Calvert and The Open Road," in Traces of Indiana and
                        Midwestern History, the society's new history magazine. He is senior author of Indiana: A New Historical Guide, to be published by the society in 1989.
         
         
            
               Grand Plans: Business Progressivism and Social Change in Ohio's Miami
                        Valley, 1890-1929. By Judith Sealander. (Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 1988. Pp.
                    viii, 263. Illustrations, map, notes, bibliography, index. $26.00.)
            
               Grand Plans is a thoroughly researched, well-organized, and tightly written case
                    study of the roles businessmen played in progressive reform in and around Dayton, 
                        Ohio
                    , in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Judith Sealander creates a
                    detailed picture of the motives, successes, and failures of progressive business leaders in a
                    variety of distinct but often related reform movements. Specifically, Sealander examines
                    businessmen's leadership in the introduction of "welfare work" to the
                    National Cash Register Company; flood relief and the creation of a unified flood-control  system for the entire Miami Valley in the wake of the great flood of
                    1913; the adoption of a city-manager form of government in Dayton; and educational reform in
                    Dayton's high schools and at nearby Antioch College.
            Sealander begins her study with a succinct and often insightful overview of the debate over the
                    relationship between business and progressivism, where business progressives have frequently been
                    portrayed as opportunists, the victims of reactionary reform, or unfeeling technocrats. Through a
                    detailed examination of businessmen's words and actions in each of the above-mentioned
                    campaigns, she shows that their motives were more complex and their relationship to progressive
                    reform more ambiguous than is frequently assumed. In each case she finds that a small group of
                    businessmen, of whom the most notable was John H. Patterson of National Cash Register, became
                    interested in reform out of a nearly boundless faith in their own abilities and the conviction that
                    their "scientific" methods would produce communities which were not only more
                    efficient but also "better." Sustained by the strength of their convictions and
                    their superior resources, these reform-minded businessmen were able to dominate the reform
                    leadership and implement their plans even in the face of strong public opposition.
            Sealander's study will be of interest to scholars in modern American history, but especially
                    to those whose interests focus on business, politics, the environment, or education during the
                    Progressive period. Although each of the examples she studied was local, all were of national
                    significance. Patterson's experiments at welfare work became world famous, the system of
                    dry reservoirs built to protect the Miami Valley was the largest ongoing engineering project in the
                    world at the time, Dayton was the first large city to adopt the city-manager form of government, and
                    the various experiments in private and public secondary education and at Antioch College were used
                    nationally as models of progressive education.
            TOM DICKE recently completed his dissertation,
                    "Franchising in the American Economy, 1840-1980," and currently teaches American
                    history at The 
                        Ohio
                     State University.
         
         
            
               The Illinois & Michigan Canal National Heritage Corridor: A Guide to Its
                        History and Sources. Edited by Michael P. Conzen and Kay J. Carr. (DeKalb: Northern
                    Illinois University Press, 1988. Pp. xii, 337. Illustrations, maps, notes, annotated bibliography,
                    index. $50.00.)
            French explorer Louis Joliet was the first to propose what ultimately became the Illinois &
                    Michigan Canal linking Lake Michigan with the Mississippi River via the Illinois River. Begun in
                    1836 and completed in 1848, the canal started Chicago's rise to  commercial dominance of the upper Midwest. Subsequent construction of
                    railroads and other waterways altered but did not replace the canal. When commercial traffic stopped
                    in the 1930s, talk began about preserving the canal for recreational and historical purposes. In
                    1984 Congress designated the route from LaSalle to the western edge of Chicago as the Illinois
                    & Michigan Canal National Heritage Corridor.
            Michael P. Conzen of the University of Chicago and Kay J. Carr of Mercer University have compiled a
                    comprehensive bibliography of the history of the canal corridor. The search for sources included
                    local and national institutions. There are 3,000 entries listed under twenty themes that range from
                    geography to recreation and genealogy. Although the editors state that the themes are
                    "highly selective" (p. x), their coverage is extensive. Many citations include
                    descriptive comments with suggestions to aid use of certain historical collections. Since works are
                    listed only once, readers must expect to search under several topics.
            Conzen and Carr have enlivened their guide by including four lectures which introduced the project to
                    the public. These chapters are well illustrated with maps, engravings, and photographs. Conzen has
                    the unenviable task of charting development of the corridor from prehistory through the 1970s.
                    Unfortunately the task is greater than the space allowed, leaving the reader unsatisfied. Likewise,
                    G. Gary Fitzsimons, director of the Historic American Engineering Record survey of the corridor,
                    only hints at the corridor's rich architectural heritage. An examination of historic
                    preservation efforts embraces a more manageable topic. Gerald W. Adelmann, Jr., executive director
                    of the Upper Illinois Valley Association, provides a concise narrative of preservation of the canal
                    since its abandonment in 1933. A final essay by Carr is a practical guide to using local resources.
                    While the chapter does not mention every possible problem, it offers many suggestions.
                    Nonprofessionals would be wise to consult this chapter, and professionals may also find some new
                    ideas.
            Although this work will be of interest to professionals primarily for the bibliography, its clarity
                    will encourage use by laymen. Students of Indiana history will find the lists valuable since a
                    number of general works apply to the Old Northwest Territory. This volume sets a fine example for
                    future comprehensive bibliographies of local sources.
            RICHARD A. GANTZ is the director of the Division of
                    Historic Preservation and Archaeology, Indiana Department of Natural Resources, Indianapolis,
                    Indiana. He is continuing a project with James L. Cooper of DePauw University to evaluate
                    Indiana's historic bridges.
         
         
         
            
               Platte River Road Narratives: A Descriptive Bibliography of Travel Over the Great
                        Central Overland Route to Oregon, California, Utah, Colorado, Montana, and Other Western States
                        and Territories, 1812-1866. By Merrill J. Mattes. (Urbana: University of Illinois Press,
                    1988. Pp. xiv, 632. Map, index. $95.00.)
            This handsome volume by Merrill J. Mattes, a retired historian from the National Park Service and
                    author of the Great Platte River Road (1969), contains descriptions of more than
                    two thousand narratives written by travelers on the Platte River Road prior to the coming of the
                    railroads. Although less celebrated than other trails, the route along the North Platte River
                    through Nebraska and Wyoming was the way most emigrants traveled the first half of their journey to
                    California, Oregon, or other points west.
            
               Platte River Road Narratives contains descriptions of both published and
                    unpublished narratives found in nearly one hundred libraries. The entries are arranged by year of
                    the journey, and include the necessary bibliographic information to enable scholars to identify and
                    locate the works. This is all the information that most bibliographies include, but Mattes supplies
                    much more. For each narrative he provides an itinerary of the traveler's entire trip; a
                    summary, often quite lengthy, of the part of the narrative which describes the traveler's
                    experiences on the Platte River route; and Mattes's comments on the quality and
                    significance of the narrative.
            Mattes has performed an extraordinary service for scholars of the western migration by his excellent
                    work in tracking down, summarizing, and evaluating these important narratives. As a work of
                    bibliography, however, the book is far less useful than it ought to be because it is unindexed
                    except for an alphabetical listing of authors' names. The richly detailed descriptions of
                    the narratives contain references to an enormous number of places, people, and occurrences which
                    could be of great value for many different research projects. Unfortunately, the only way someone
                    might use this book to identify relevant sources would be to read it from cover to cover.
            Another weakness of the book is the limited number of narratives from the collections of the Library
                    of Congress and the National Archives. Mattes was unable to visit either institution, so most of the
                    items from their collections are either publications or documents which Mattes found as copies in
                    other repositories. Obviously not every repository can be visited, but any guide to American history
                    sources which aims to be comprehensive must regard the two national repositories as critical stops.
            
               Platte River Narratives is full of interesting details about the experiences of the
                    overland travelers. But it is also a bibliography. Perhaps less attention to style and more to the
                    needs of the people  likely to use it would have made the book a
                    more valuable research tool.
            ERIC PUMROY is head of Special Collections and Archives at
                    Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis. He was the editor of Guide to
                        Manuscript Collections in the Indiana Historical Society and the Indiana State Library
                    (1986) and is currently working on a biography of the Vincennes fur trader, Francis Vigo.
         
         
            
               Corn and Its Early Fathers. By Henry A. Wallace and William L. Brown. Revised
                    edition. (Ames: Iowa State University Press, 1988. Pp. xv, 141. Notes, figures, illustrations,
                    selected bibliography, index. $18.95.)
            This is primarily an account of the people—farmers and scientists—who have made
                    corn what it is today. Corn and Its Early Fathers begins with the American Indian,
                    who introduced colonial settlers to corn, and goes on to discuss the early historical period and the
                    contributions of Cotton Mather, among others, to the development of corn. In the later historical
                    period familiar figures appear, such as Charles Darwin, Gregor Mendel, George Harrison Shull, and
                    Edward M. East, as well as those not so familiar, such as Robert Reid, George Krug, and Isaac
                    Hershey. These accounts are the same as those in the first edition, which appeared in 1956. What is
                    new is Brown's chapter on Henry A. Wallace, the senior author, who died in 1965. Although
                    perhaps to most people Wallace will be remembered as a vice-president during the administration of
                    Franklin D. Roosevelt, his greatest contribution probably was the promotion of hybrid corn. Although
                    he does not figure in the origin of hybrid corn, he began breeding experiments with the plant in
                    1913. Through the pages of Wallace's Farmer, from 1921 through 1933 he
                    wrote much to make the hybrids known; in 1926 he founded the Hi-Bred Corn Company (now Pioneer
                    Hi-Bred International), the first of the hybrid seed companies, to make the seeds available to
                    farmers. There have been a few minor changes in the revised edition. Some of the more recent
                    information on the origin of corn is included, although the date given for the corn from Bat Cave
                    has not been corrected. The replacement of double crosses by single crosses in the production of
                    hybrid seed also receives treatment. The book is simply written and opens with a description of the
                    corn plant so that one does not have to be a botanist or geneticist to understand most of the text.
                    The junior author, who recently retired as president and chairman of Pioneer Hi-Bred International
                    and has spent most of his life working with corn, is eminently qualified to write this book.
            CHARLES B. HEISER, distinguished professor of botany at
                    Indiana University, Bloomington, is now working on a revision of his Seed to
                        Civilization: The Story of Food. His most recent book, Of Plants and
                    People, appeared in 1985.
         
         
         
            
               America 1941: A Nation at the Crossroads. By Ross Gregory. (New York: The Free
                    Press, 1989. Pp. x, 339. Illustrations, notes, selected bibliography, index. $22.95.)
            
               America 1941 is a trip down memory lane for anyone old enough to remember what life
                    was like in the years before Pearl Harbor, but more importantly, it will serve as a marvelous
                    introduction to the social history of pre-World War II America for many years to come.
            The author writes that this is "a story of how Americans perceived the world of their time,
                    how they lived their lives and tried to solve their problems" (p. x). Gregory leaves most
                    of the politics, diplomacy, and war to other historians. He discusses almost every facet of American
                    life in this period: working conditions, salaries, city slums, race relations, radio programs,
                    movies, sports heroes, comic strips, and so forth. It is all here, from Joe Dimaggio to Joe Palooka.
                    The author even includes a detailed description of bringing in the hay on an American farm that
                    struck home with a reviewer who has vivid memories of doing in the summer of 1945 exactly what the
                    author describes.
            Gregory depicts an innocent, uncertain America stumbling its way into world leadership. Most
                    Americans were very much aware of the war that had been raging around them since 1939, thanks to Life magazine, radio commentators such as Edward R. Murrow and Elmer Davis, and a
                    steady flow of Hollywood war movies and newsreels. Still, a majority preferred to believe that
                    somehow America could sit this one out. The author accurately states that Franklin D. Roosevelt,
                    fearful of this powerful isolationist sentiment, refused to present a clear case for intervention on
                    the side of the Allies. His handling of lend-lease is a perfect example of this. FDR euphemistically
                    called it: "A Bill Further to Promote the Defense of the 
                        United States
                     and for other Purposes." On the other hand, Gregory's own convincing
                    documentation of the typical American's reluctance to become involved in the war makes one
                    doubt that FDR or anyone else could have rallied the American people behind the Allied cause until
                    American territory was physically attacked. Even the undeclared naval war with Germany failed to
                    create a consensus for war. Only a sneak Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor accomplished this.
            
               America 1941 is a marvelous social history of the American people in the final
                    months before Pearl Harbor. Gregory has made judicious use of a massive array of facts and figures
                    about the lives of ordinary people. This book is not primarily aimed at professional historians but
                    should be of great value to the younger generation who have their only knowledge of the old America
                    from their parents or grandparents.
            CHARLES J. TULL has taught at St. Vincent's
                    College, De Paul, Notre Dame, and Indiana University at South Bend, where he has been since 1966. He
                    is currently revising his 1965 study of Father Coughlin and completing a study of the World War I
                    Shipping Board.
         
         
         
            
               UAW Politics in the Cold War Era. By Martin Halpern. (Albany: State University
                    of New York Press, 1988. Pp. 361. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                    $44.50; paper-bound, $16.95.)
            From the earliest days of the United Automobile Workers until the post-World War II era, Communists
                    and other leftists had constituted a significant, and, in Martin Halpern's view, a
                    leavening presence within the union. When Walter Reuther attained the union presidency in 1947 by a
                    slim margin, and again in 1948 with a comfortable majority, the era of common-front politics in the
                    UAW was at an end. It is this turning of the tide, along with its origins and some of its
                    consequences, that Halpern has carefully, although not disinterestedly, chronicled and analyzed.
            It has been widely accepted that Reuther, a self-styled Marxist himself, wrested control of the UAW
                    from the Thomas-Addes-Leonard coalition by means of his superior record on labor union issues and
                    proceeded to expel Communists as a matter of principle. Halpern takes pains to counter this notion,
                    pointing to Reuther's decision to "jump the gun" at General Motors in the
                    first round of postwar strikes, his dubious strategy of tying wage demands to
                    "ability-to-pay," and the continuing association of Reuther's name with
                    plant speedups. Anticommunism itself became an expedient for Reuther to gain some support within the
                    union (more outside the union during the conservative Truman years) and a weapon with which to mop
                    up factional resistance once he won power.
            Halpern, however, offers evidence that the Communists had greater strength among the rank-and-file
                    than is commonly appreciated. He argues that the ultimate defeat of the left had less to do with
                    Reuther himself than with the shifting response of Philip Murray and the Congress of Industrial
                    Organizations to the implications of the Taft-Hartley Act, and still less than the Truman
                    administration's decision to break off cooperation with the Soviet Union and to embark on
                    the Cold War. Similar conclusions can be reached regarding other leftist union presences, notably in
                    the United Electrical Workers.
            Halpern utilizes a wealth of archival resources, oral histories, and analyses of roll-call votes at
                    UAW conventions. Along the way he takes the reader on excursions into the Michigan and 
                        Wayne County
                     CIO which may not be of crucial interest to some readers, although an interesting
                    portrait of the early Coleman Young is included.
            Minor objections can be made to some of the book's seeming confusion on UAW membership
                    numbers (pp. 19-24) and to an abundance of typographical errors throughout. But Halpern's
                    work  is clearly a worthwhile addition to understanding a key
                    era in 
                        United States
                     union history.
            PATRICK J. MCGEEVER is professor of
                    political science at Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis and author of the biography
                    of Pittsburgh's "labor priest," Charles Owen Rice: Apostle
                        of Contradiction (1989).
         
         
            
               Battle Cry of Freedom: The Civil War Era. By James M. McPherson. (New York:
                    Oxford University Press, 1988. Pp. xix, 904. Notes, maps, tables, illustrations, bibliographical
                    note, index. Clothbound, $35.00; paperbound, $14.95.)
            The Civil War is at last remote in time. Thoughtful people, North and South, have forgiven each other
                    and themselves. The explosion in communications and transportation has contributed to the growth of
                    a national culture. Finally, racial attitudes have changed markedly. Although race relations are far
                    from ideal, reasonable people acknowledge the equality of blacks and whites as the appropriate
                    ideal. These rather recent changes have permitted a new view of the Civil War and its preliminaries
                    and aftermath. Much of the best scholarship on the period is taking place now.
            James M. McPherson's Battle Cry of Freedom is a symbol, perhaps the
                    apogee, of this advance in historiography. The book therefore reflects two premises: that the war
                    was about black slavery and that it was in no sense a romantic event.
            As his title suggests, McPherson understands that in terms of cause and effect the central issue of
                    the war was the status of black people. However flawed and inept the trial, freedom was at stake.
                    McPherson therefore rejects the implicitly racist rationales that have trivialized that issue in
                    favor of once-fashionable cultural and economic explanations of the war. He has put black people
                    back on the center of the stage, paying needed attention to their military contribution and to
                    abolition and the survival of the Union.
            As regards the romance of the war, by discarding the clichés of "the Blue and the
                    Gray" McPherson makes it plain that the war was nothing less than a tragedy. It was an
                    abject failure of American politics and the source of untrammeled harm in human terms. Thus, unlike
                    much previous writing, the book does not glorify the events of the war.
            The book is remarkable in another respect. Pervasive events like the Civil War tend to receive
                    specific treatments. One book is a military history. Another is a political history. Still others
                    present social or economic histories. In addition to offering significant insights into the ordeal,
                    McPherson skillfully synthesizes its many aspects. In this reviewer's experience only one
                    prior historian has had this faculty for dealing with the Civil War as a whole. This was Allan
                    Nevins in his multivolumed works of a generation ago, The Ordeal of the Union and The
                        War for the Union.
            
            McPherson's analysis is questionable with respect to a special interest of Hoosiers. This
                    concerns his treatment of dissent in the North, especially among the Democrats in the Middle West,
                    including Indiana. Although he devotes needed attention to the complicated economic and political
                    sources of the Copperheads' attitudes, his choice of sources leads McPherson to overstate
                    both the extent and the nature of dissent. Depending on which data one consults, Indiana ranked
                    either first or second among the northern states in the percentage of its military population that
                    enrolled in the northern armies, and these soldiers were overwhelmingly volunteers. Gilbert R.
                    Tredway's Democratic Opposition to the Lincoln Administration in Indiana
                    establishes that the Democratic Congressional Districts consistently furnished more volunteers in
                    proportion to their population than the Republican districts. In short, the evidence contradicts the
                    once-prevailing view that the Indiana Democratic party was rife with pro-Confederate feeling. There
                    were surely some disloyal party spokesmen and a disloyal fringe group, but the mainstream, although
                    racist and politically irresponsible, supported the Union. There is a difference between being wrong
                    and being disloyal.
            Despite this exception, McPherson's book is superb. Beautifully written, it is a book for
                    scholars and those of the general public who would understand this watershed event of American
                    history.
            ALAN T. NOLAN is a lawyer in Indianapolis. He is the
                    author of The Iron Brigade and numerous historical articles about the Civil War. He is currently
                    working on a critical analysis of the Lee tradition.
         
         
            
               A Whole New Ball Game: An Interpretation of American Sports. By Allen Guttmann.
                    (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1988. Pp. x, 233. Illustration, figure, notes,
                    bibliographical essay, index. Clothbound, $24.95; paperbound, $10.95.)
            My sports world these days is defined by my son's twelve-year-old soccer-playing friend who
                    tells me with unshakable certitude that only winning counts, and by a more recent conversation with
                    now wise fourteen-year-olds, who explain that for good players who can control the score, point
                    shaving is all right.
            That these young men, whom I take to be representative of American youth involved in sports, would
                    have such "Steinbren-nerian" notions about the primacy of winning, and have such
                    ready answers and opinions about so controversial an issue as point shaving, is a definition in
                    itself of the sad side of the world of modern sports.
            Allen Guttmann's A Whole New Ball Game is a welcome counter to and a
                    lively argument with the values expressed by these young sports friends. It is also a richly
                    textured historical expla-  nation of how Americans have reached
                    a situation where in both fact and popular perception attention to performance on the field of play
                    frequently takes second place to off-the-field play involving obscenities of rampant commercialism,
                    drugs, and the personal problems and foibles of sports heroes.
            Through eleven subject chapters that begin with what for this reader was an intriguing introduction
                    to the world of "Pre-Columbian Sports" and end with what the author titles
                    "The Rejection of Modern Sports, A Search For Alternatives," Guttmann touches such
                    diverse bases as "Puritans At Play," "The Southerner As
                    Sportsman," "The National Game," and "Children's Play
                    From Jackson's Island To The Little Leagues." Each chapter offers a lively
                    argument and debate, admirably fulfilling the author's aim of writing a selective
                    historical interpretation of American sports which sets the scenes he chooses to examine into the
                    larger social framework of which sports are always an important part.
            With the exception of an overly technical and intellectually demanding introduction, the
                    author's organizational framework, writing style, and especially his eagerness to grapple
                    with the values and defining issues of his topics go a long way toward realizing his aim of writing
                    a book that will appeal to two primary audiences: the non-specialist historian/sociologist who
                    recognizes that sports are an important part of American popular culture; and a class of
                    "common readers" who read because they are simply curious about human behavior.
                    The sports history specialist will find occasion to take issue with statements of fact as well as
                    judgment. The author's interpretation of the black press as an assimilationist/
                    integrationist force, for example, slights its glorying in and celebration of the black sports world
                    it played so large a role in creating. It is simply wrong to state that Effa Manley was a widow when
                    she ran the administrative end of the Negro League Newark Eagles operation from 1935 through 1948
                    and not possible to state simply, as the author does, that Mrs. Manley was white. Nor do I recall
                    that the film epic Olympia depicted Jesse Owens as a godlike hero; that
                    characterization was reserved for Adolph Hitler.
            But comments of this sort are as much a confirmation of the author's aim as they are points
                    to single out for criticism. This fine book is timely and deserves wide attention from both the
                    scholar/ specialist and student audiences who presumably will read it, as well as from that class of
                    "common readers" one hopes still exists.
            LAWRENCE D. HOGAN is professor of history at Union County
                    College, Cranford, New Jersey. He is director of Before You Can Say Jackie Robinson:
                    Black Baseball in America In The Era Of The Color Line, a video documentary, photo
                    and memorabilia travel exhibit, and national conference project on the history of black
                baseball.
         
         
         
            
               John Ireland and the American Catholic Church. By Marvin R. O'Connell.
                    (St. Paul: Minnesota Historical Society Press, 1988. Pp. xii, 610. Illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $34.95.)
            John Ireland, archbishop of St. Paul, 1888-1918, and the subject of Marvin R.
                    O'Connell's fine biography, was once described by an episcopal rival as being
                    "first American, then Archbishop" (p. 351). This description illustrates well the
                    pivotal role Ireland played in the development of a distinctively American form of Catholicism and
                    suggests how important his life is for students of immigration and religion in nineteenth century
                    America.
            Ireland's career was spectacular. Born in Ireland in 1838, he was brought to Canada with the
                    rest of his family at the age of eleven. After brief stays in Vermont and Chicago, his father led
                    the family to the frontier village of St. Paul. Sent to France to be trained for the priesthood in
                    1854, Ireland returned eight years later and briefly took part in the Civil War as chaplain. His
                    pastoral work in St. Paul was quickly overshadowed by enthusiastic involvement in the temperance
                    movement and in an unsuccessful effort to establish colonies of Irish settlers in rural Minnesota.
                    His temperance involvement first thrust Ireland onto the national stage; early efforts to develop
                    support for a Catholic university also helped his reputation. As O'Connell notes, however,
                    "governance was Ireland's first interest, and, indeed, his consuming
                    passion" (p. 165). It was this passion which led him into the heart of American episcopal
                    politics and Vatican intrigue.
            The issue which above all others preoccupied Ireland was "Americanism," and it is
                    the fortunes of this movement which are O'Connell's main concerns. Unlike some
                    prominent American bishops Ireland would tolerate no loyalties other than to the Vatican and the 
                        United States
                    ; the creation of national parishes was inconsistent with his view of the
                    church's proper role in American life. In contrast to the unhappy experience of the church
                    in republican France, Ireland saw the relationship between the church and republican America as an
                    opportunity for church and state alike; "the Catholic Church," he once remarked,
                    "can preserve, as no human power can preserve, the liberties of the Republic" (p.
                    351). He enunciated this message most powerfully during his unsuccessful efforts to nurture
                    church-state cooperation in public education, an effort which led many American churchmen to suggest
                    the modification of Rome's demand for strictly denominational education and which led
                    Ireland into war (his own term) with leaders of the German-American community. Additionally, his
                    efforts to have a Catholic university established in Washington, D.C., led to a fierce clash with
                    Jesuits concerned about the effect such a step would have on Georgetown College. Ultimately,
                    Americanism was condemned by Pope Leo XIII, but in the meantime Ireland had forged  personal connections with some of the most powerful figures in American
                    political and economic life. The picture that emerges from this well-researched and well-written
                    book is one of a formidable and sometimes ruthless man who passionately believed in his causes, who
                    loved politics of all kinds, and who generally won the contests in which he engaged.
            This book has few weaknesses. The author might have said a little more about the Catholic population
                    with which Ireland dealt, and Ireland's own family tends to get lost in the narrative. The
                    archbishop became immensely rich from real estate deals in and around St. Paul, and while
                    O'Connell discusses this subject, it is one which could have been more fully developed.
                    Those interested in Indiana history will not find much that will be directly useful, although the
                    author does note that a number of Indiana farmers took up land on the Minnesota prairie that Ireland
                    had originally intended for his Irish settlers. The war with German-Americans in which Ireland
                    engaged must have affected Indiana German communities and here, perhaps, lies some fertile ground
                    for future research on Hoosier history, an undertaking for which this book would provide some very
                    useful background.
            DANIEL J. GAHAN is assistant professor of history at the
                    University of Evansville. He has published articles on Irish agrarian history and on the role of
                    religious divisions in Irish agrarian conflict.
         
         
            
               Past Meets Present: Essays about Historic Interpretation and Public Audiences.
                    Edited by Jo Blatti. (Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1987. Pp. x, 169. Notes,
                    illustrations. Clothbound, $19.95; paperbound, $11.95.)
            
               Past Meets Present: Essays about Historic Interpretation and Public Audiences,
                    published by the Smithsonian Institution Press, and edited by Jo Blatti, is a collection of ten
                    essays about historical interpretation written as a result of a 1984 conference sponsored by the New
                    York Humanities Council. The conference was designed to foster discussion of the intellectual
                    assumptions and theoretical perspectives that inform history exhibits and site interpretation; the
                    essays focus on the importance of research, collections, production, and evaluation in creating
                    exhibits. The book presents significant issues of history interpretation for the public, including
                    scholarship, multidisciplinary approaches to historic themes, and techniques for exhibits and
                    education. Past Meets Present assists the reader in understanding the role of
                    public history in exhibits, public art, and all arenas in which artifacts are used to explain the
                    past. The writers discuss the issues, stories, and themes that make artifacts important in
                    communicating ideas and concepts in history. The essays intrigue and encourage a broad vision of
                    interpreting the past.
            
            In the introduction Blatti writes about three ideas important in effective interpretation: the
                    historic significance of collections; the participation of citizens and scholars in the interpretive
                    process; and the need for critical discourse about interpretation. She opens the essays with an
                    inviting introduction that enables the readers to understand the importance of what follows. Blatti
                    explains that the unifying elements of the collection of essays are collaboration, multiple
                    perspectives about the past, and viewing interpretation as an active, not static, process.
            The book's three sections explore approaches to interpretive programs, design, and
                    identification of the connecting interpretive points for audiences. The sections are entitled
                    "Multidisciplinary Approaches to Interpretive Programs," "Design and
                    Technique in the Realization of Interpretive Programs," and "Finding the
                    Metaphors." Contributors include Michael H. Frisch, Dwight Pitchaithley, Michael Wallace,
                    Pierce Lewis, and Warren Leon. The essays provide thought-provoking comment and ideas. The opening
                    essay, "Taking Down the Velvet Rope: Cultural Geography and the Human Landscape,"
                    describes the process of learning how to look at a familiar landscape with fresh eyes and with the
                    curiosity necessary to tell the complex stories of history. Lewis explains that before one can
                    understand or write about history one must suspend aesthetic value judgments and reject the notion
                    that certain things and places are more historic than others. The next essay, "Public
                    History and the Historic Preservation District," by Elizabeth Collins Cromley, is equally
                    compelling. The essay succinctly addresses the issue of public history in historic preservation.
                    Throughout Past Meets Present readers are challenged to think about the issue of
                    public history in a variety of interpretive forms that extend beyond exhibits.
            The writers confront head on questions of interpretation and evaluation. Past Meets
                        Present provides a solid frame of reference for all types of cultural organizations that
                    develop history programs. It encourages deeper thinking and suggests increased scholarship in all
                    stages of developing programs. It is a timely book and important reading for those involved in
                    creating history.
            ALICE JEAN STUART is program officer at
                    the Indiana Humanities Council, Indianapolis.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
