
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 46, Issue 3, pages 221-341. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:46+issue:3+year:1950&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            The Tennessee River Campaign and Anna Ella Carroll
            
               Kenneth P. Williams*
            It was not Abraham Lincoln, Ulysses Grant, or any other general who devised some of the most
                    important Federal strategy in the Civil War. It was Anna Ella Carroll. Such is the startling claim
                    that has been circulated of late. Nothing that has been done to make Robert E. Lee, Stonewall
                    Jackson, James E. B. Stuart, and others great heroes for the South, compares with this effort to
                    give the North a heroine to bow before. Though Miss Carroll's promoters cannot portray a
                    young girl who donned armor, mounted a horse, and with upraised sword led armies in battle in the
                    fashion of Joan of Arc, they give her very intriguing qualities—mystery and anonymity.
            While Joan received her inspiration from unembodied voices, Anna—so the story
                    goes—was launched on her career by voices in the Senate. Though the seats of the seceding
                    states were vacant during the crucial special session of July, 1861, John C. Breckinridge of 
                        Kentucky
                    , recently vice-president and the candidate for the presidency favored in the South in
                    the last election, returned to the floor to denounce the other native of 
                        Kentucky
                    , who had defeated him at the polls.1 Seated in the balcony, Anna
                    Carroll heard Lincoln severely criticized, and believing the President should be defended, wrote a
                    reply to Breckinridge. She took it to Assistant Secretary of War Thomas Scott, who thought it would
                    do the Union cause much good. If Miss Carroll would have 
                  
                     * Kenneth P. Williams is professor of mathematics at
                            Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana. The paper was read at the dinner of the Society for the Libraries of 
                                New York
                             University on April 28, 1950, on the occasion of the presentation of the
                            society's gold medal.
                  
                     1 Though Breckinridge carried ten Southern States, including 
                                Delaware
                             and 
                                Maryland
                            , he did not carry 
                        Kentucky,
                                    Tennessee
                     , or 
                                Virginia
                            , all of which went to Bell.
               
                     her paper printed and distributed, the government would surely
                    reward her properly, said Thomas Scott.2 So Miss Carroll—daughter of
                    a governor of 
                        Maryland
                    —became a pamphleteer.
            Since Lincoln was now provided with answers to the forays of his fellow Kentuckian, and since there
                    was great turmoil in 
                        Missouri
                    , Miss Carroll went to 
                        St. Louis
                     in October in order to gain firsthand knowledge of the situation. She talked with a
                    river pilot about what she believed was the contemplated Federal thrust down the 
                        Mississippi
                    , and learned of objections to that great stream. The Tennessee
                    River offered a far better way to enter the Confederacy. It flowed North and it would be
                    better for gunboats to fight against the current than with it; then if they were damaged, they would
                    float back to their friends. Naval men would not think of this, for oceans, not rivers, were their
                    habitat, and generals could just be dismissed. Hastening back to 
                        Washington
                    , Miss Carroll was on November 30 once more in the presence of Thomas Scott, this time
                    as a high military strategist.3 "The President must see this,"
                    is what Scott in effect is claimed to have said after he had read the paper Miss Carroll gave him.
            Lincoln at once liked the plan to use the 
                        Tennessee
                    —the story continues—but there was a grave objection. The generals
                    would never approve it, and it would not do to let it be known that a woman was devising military
                    moves. Then vigorous Senator Benjamin F. Wade, presently chairman of the new Congressional Committee
                    on the Conduct of the War, came to the aid of the baffled President. "That's no
                    problem!" he remarked. "We will swear Miss Carroll to secrecy." Lincoln
                    was delighted, and a magazine with a circulation near three million stated: "Anne Carroll
                    agreed, and thus a great decision was made. Lincoln changed the plan of campaign to the 
                        Tennessee
                    , and Scott was sent to assemble troops in the West. Soon the battles began. The
                    Confederates were taken by surprise. Fort Henry fell to the Union onslaught, then Fort
                        Donelson."4
            
            
               
                  2 The Carroll claim in the matter was admitted by Scott, as will appear
                        later.
               
                  3 This claim was also admitted by Scott.
               
                  4 Harry E. Neal, "Secret Heroine of the Civil War," Coronet (
                            Chicago
                        , 1936-), XXVI (May, 1949), 148-152. Quotation from pages 150-151 reprinted with
                        permission from Coronet, Copyright, 1949, by Esquire, Inc.
            
            
            Heroically with sealed lips Anna Carroll sat again in the balcony of Congress, but this time to hear
                    unenlightened politicians praise Generals Grant and Henry W. Halleck, and Commodore Andrew H. Foote.
                    Joan of Arc has something of a rival in Boadicea. But where is there a rival for the mute figure in
                    the gallery of the capitol on that February day of 1862—if the Carroll story is indeed
                    true?
            The Carroll claim is not new. The lady herself began to push it soon after the war, and for twenty
                    years she had memorials before Congress asking recognition and remuneration for her services. Some
                    committees accepted her claim completely; one reported a bill giving her the pay of a major general
                    with arrearage from November, 1861. But she nevertheless lost her case both before Congress and
                        historians.5
            
            How did it happen that a case seemingly settled should be vigorously brought to life?
            In the preface to her biography of Miss Carroll, Mrs. Marjorie B. Greenbie stated that it was by
                    chance that her eye fell on a card in the Library of Congress that bore Miss Carroll's name
                    followed by the description, "The great, unrecognized member of Lincoln's
                        cabinet."6 Her curiosity aroused by the appealing thought, Mrs.
                    Greenbie began an investigation, believing, she said, at first, that Miss Carroll was a
                    "pretender" with "delusions of grandeur." But her scepticism
                    vanished, and Mrs. Greenbie became a hundred per cent believer, and on the title page of her book
                    she gave Miss Carroll the description found on the library card, the legacy of an earlier
                    biographer.
            
               
                  5 In the Index volume (1945) of The National Cyclopaedia of
                            American Biography (34 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1898-1948), Miss Carroll is listed as a "strategist," and in the
                        biographical sketch, V (1907), 193, her claim is fully recognized. Miss Carroll is not mentioned
                        in Nicolay and Hay's ten-volume work on Lincoln, though they had full use of
                        Lincoln's private papers, and wrote at a time when she was pressing her claim before
                        Congress. These papers, which have been open to other people since 1947, contain nothing that
                        supports Miss Carroll, but preserve a letter from her with which Nicolay and Hay must have been
                        familiar, and which, as will be seen later, is extremely damaging to her claim. In Lincoln's Secretary: A Biography of John G. Nicolay (
                            New York
                        , 1949), Helen Nicolay gave (p. 312) a list of fifteen items that her father one day
                        "scribbled" on a scrap of paper and which he deemed
                        "questionable." In the list one finds the name Anna Ella Carroll.
               
                  6
                        The Story of Anna Ella Carroll, the "Great Unrecognized Member of
                            Lincoln's Cabinet" (
                            New York
                        , 1940).
            
            
            More recently Hollister Noble has rallied to the Carroll banner, using the novel as a vehicle that
                    can go places inaccessible to even uninhibited and unannotated biography. His book Woman with a Sword reached a large circulation through The Peoples Book Club, and Life magazine carried its main thesis to millions.7 Seldom
                    have end papers been used more effectively, and one can dwell pleasantly over the picture of
                    Lincoln, with his tired and disturbed expression, a sheaf of papers in his hand, his tall hat on a
                    sofa behind him, a dejected frustrated officer with head bowed in failure standing nearby, the
                    raised face of a handsome young woman with steady gaze on the President, a shawl upon her arm, the
                    graceful curling fingers of her raised hand inviting the troubled Lincoln to turn his problems over
                    to her. To put romance into the story and the picture, a little subtracting was necessary in Miss
                    Carroll's age for the outbreak of the war found her forty-six.
            
               Woman with a Sword could be dismissed as mere fiction if its author had not
                    insisted that it is based substantially on fact and that except for minor storytelling licenses it
                    is true. In the book club edition he added a documentary of a dozen pages in which he described not
                    only his investigations but put down what he claimed is an indisputable basis for his novel. A
                    review of Noble's book in a scholarly publication spoke of his "irrefutable and
                    documented authority," and said the book will hereafter be required reading in the Civil
                    War period.8 Only to what appeared in Noble's documentary will any
                    attention be given here.
            A study of the 
                        Tennessee
                     campaign should of course start with a careful consideration of the Official Records. If Miss Carroll had anything to do with the operation there should be
                    something in the records, or some gap for her to fill. Though her recent champions traveled far and
                    searched diligently for new information about her, they shunned the records.
            The very foundation on which Miss Carroll built her case falls quickly. She claimed that until she
                    gave her paper 
                  
                     7 The book was originally published by Doubleday & Company, 
                                New York
                            , in 1948, and in the same year a special edition was published exclusively for
                            members of the Peoples Book Club, 
                                Chicago
                            , which contained a documentary of a dozen pages. "Lincoln's
                            Lady Strategist," Life (
                                Chicago
                            , 1936-), XXV (July 26, 1948), 101-105.
                  
                     8 Review by Carl Haverlin in Lincoln Herald (
                                Harrogate
                            , 
                                Tennessee
                            , 1917-), L (1948), 46.
               
                     to Scott on November 30, 1861, it was intended without question
                    to conduct an operation down the 
                        Mississippi
                    . That such was the purpose was indeed probably believed by most persons, and it had its
                    origin in General Winfield Scott's "Anaconda Plan." But before the end of
                    May, 1861, the old Mexican War hero had himself given up the idea, as shown by a letter he wrote to
                    General George B. McClellan, then commanding the Department of the 
                        Ohio
                    .9 He now intended to have only a small force follow the river; the
                    main expedition of eighty thousand men would move not far away but by land, taking fortified places
                    on the river from the land side, the river being used chiefly to support the marching column. Busy
                    with many cares and afflicted with years and illness, Scott evidently had not reviewed his
                    geography, and did not see the advantage of the Tennessee River. But he had
                    given up the 
                        Mississippi
                    , and certainly McClellan, who eight months later—but before any move had
                    been started—wrote that he never had favored the great river,10 had
                    been influenced by Scott's letter.
            Fortunately Lincoln's views about operations are fully set down in a remarkable memorandum,
                    undated, but shown by its contents to have been written in the last part of September, 1861.11 He outlined an operation into East 
                        Tennessee
                    , to seize the great strategic railroad that connected 
                        Richmond
                     with 
                        Chattanooga
                     and 
                        Memphis
                    , and to liberate the 
                        Tennessee
                     Unionists. Aware of the difficulty of forcing mountain gaps and of the long and poor
                    roads involved in his proposal, the President said its practicability would have to be decided by
                    military men. In order that it should succeed, Lincoln saw that the East 
                        Tennessee
                     thrust should be co-ordinated with other operations. One on the Atlantic was to tie
                    down the enemy in that region, while General John Fremont, commanding in 
                        Missouri
                    , and McClellan, now at the head of the Army of the Potomac about 
                        Washington
                    , were to take advantage of 
                  
                     9 Scott to McClellan, May 21, 1861, The War of the
                                Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate
                            Armies (70 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1880-1901), Series 1, LI, part 1 (1897), 386-387. Scott's original
                            plan is given in a letter to McClellan dated May 3, ibid., 369-370.
                            Hereafter Official Records will be used to refer to this work.
                  
                     10 McClellan to Halleck, January 29, 1862, ibid.,
                            Series 1, VII (1882), 930-931.
                  
                     11 bid., Series 1, LII (1898), part 1, pp. 191-192.
               
                     the diversion in any ways they could. But nothing was said
                    about a move down the 
                        Mississippi
                    .
            On November 1, Scott retired and McClellan became General in Chief. Henry W. Halleck, back in uniform
                    after a successful civilian career in 
                        California
                    , was sent to 
                  Missouri, Fremont
                having been removed early in the month. The
                    letter of November 11 that Halleck received from McClellan directed him to straighten out
                    "a system of reckless expenditure and fraud, perhaps unheard of before in the history of
                    the world," as well as correct other glaring faults of 
                        Fremont
                    's administration.12 Very little was said about military
                    operations, McClellan directing only that certain places be held securely, with excess troops
                    concentrated "on or near the 
                        Mississippi
                    , prepared for such ulterior operations as the public interest may demand."
                    Though this vague statement does not indicate that a movement down the great river was not intended,
                    it certainly gives no support to the contention that one was definitely planned. And as indicated
                    previously, McClellan would later write to Halleck that his "ideas from the
                    beginning" had "ever been against a movement in force down the 
                        Mississippi
                     itself."
            When Halleck reached 
                        St. Louis
                     on the eighteenth, 
                        Missouri
                     was seemingly quiet; but almost immediately former governor Sterling Price, whose state
                    force had been operating with Confederate troops in the southwestern part of the state, marched
                    northward, calling the people to his standard with a rhetorical proclamation.13
                    Sabotage on a large scale soon broke out and Halleck found himself virtually occupying enemy
                    territory.
            But Halleck's thoughts about Price were broken into dramatically by a letter from 
                        Cincinnati
                    . On November 20, Colonel Charles Whittlesley, an engineer officer, wrote:
                    "SIR: Will you allow me to suggest the consideration of a great movement by land and water
                    up the Cumberland and Tennessee Rivers?"14 Then Whittlesley set down four specific merits of the operation. Thus ten
                    days before Miss Carroll 
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., Series 1, III (1881), 568-569.
                  
                     13 On November 23, Colonel Frederick Steele telegraphed Halleck from
                            Sedalia saying he had reliable information that Sterling Price was marching north at the
                            rate of 30 miles a day with a force estimated at from 33,000 to 50,000 men, his objective
                            being said to be Sedalia. Ibid., Series 1, VIII (1883), 374.
                            Price's proclamation was issued at 
                                Marshall
                            , 
                                Missouri
                            , on November 26. Ibid., 695-697.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., Series 1, VII, 440.
               
                     gave her paper to Scott the 
                        Tennessee
                     plan was communicated to Halleck. One cannot give Miss Carroll credit for even being
                    the first to put it on paper.
            As a matter of fact the first step for a move up the 
                        Tennessee
                     had already been taken before Miss Carroll went west. During the spring and summer, 
                        Kentucky
                     had been preserving a strange neutrality, with regiments forming both for North and
                    South, but with no troops from outside states upon her soil. On September 4, Brigadier General U.S.
                    Grant took over command at 
                        Cairo
                    , sent there by 
                        Fremont
                    . The very next day Grant learned that Confederate troops from 
                        Tennessee
                     had seized Hickman and Columbus, important 
                        Kentucky
                     towns on the 
                        Mississippi
                    . He notified 
                        Fremont
                    , saying that if not prevented by orders he would seize Paducah, which he did early the
                    next morning.15 Why did Grant want Paducah and act so swiftly? The answer is
                    obvious. Paducah is at the mouth of the Tennessee River. Within a few days
                    General Charles F. Smith, Grant's old West Point idol, was sent to command at the new
                    position, and soon the little wooden gunboat "Conestoga" began to make trips up
                    the river to inspect Fort Henry, which the Confederates were building just over the 
                        Tennessee
                     line to block the stream whose importance was obvious to everyone in the region.
            Mrs. Greenbie ignored a telegram in the records that is well known to everyone who has given any
                    serious study to western operations in the Civil War, and made the statement that Grant knew nothing
                    of a move up the 
                        Tennessee
                     until ordered to make it by Halleck.16 Smith, presently put under
                    Grant's command, wrote to the latter's adjutant about the 
                  
                     15 Grant's telegram notifying 
                                Fremont
                             of the Confederate move into western 
                                Kentucky
                             and stating his intention of seizing Paducah does not seem to be in the
                            records, but a message later in the day contained the sentence, "I am now nearly
                            ready for Paducah, should not telegram arrive preventing the movement on the strength of the
                            information telegraphed." Ibid., Series 1, III, 150.
                            Grant's reports (probably a telegram and a letter) on the seizure of Paducah, sent
                            from Cairo on September 6 are given in ibid., Series 1, IV (1882),
                            196-197. He stated that Confederate flags had been flying above the city, that a company of
                            Confederate troops left by train, and that he had seized a large quantity of rations and
                            leather intended for the Southern army. The report that a Confederate column of 3,800 was 16
                            miles away he apparently believed, but he said he did "not credit" the
                            report that a large force was coming down the 
                                Tennessee
                            . He took possession of the telegraph office and immediately sent additional
                            troops to assure his hold on the town.
                  
                     16
                            My Dear Lady, 156.
               
                     sketch of Fort Henry that Grant had seen in his quarters.17 What, one wonders, would Anna's biographer have us believe those two
                    competent generals talked about when that sketch was before them?
            At the same time that Halleck went to 
                        Missouri
                    , Brigadier General Don C. Buell came to 
                        Louisville
                     to command the Department of the 
                        Ohio
                    , which included the portion of 
                        Kentucky
                     east of the Cumberland River. The instructions that Buell's good friend
                    McClellan gave him were in accordance with Lincoln's memorandum and spoke of "the
                    necessity of entering Eastern 
                        Tennessee
                     as soon as it can be done with reasonable chances of success."18 But Buell almost at once began to think of an operation against the Confederates who
                    were blocking the road to 
                        Nashville
                     by a strong position at 
                        Bowling Green
                    .19 In reply to a telegram that McClellan sent him on the
                    twenty-seventh, he described his proposal, saying that as he advanced on 
                        Nashville
                     there should be "two flotilla columns up the 
                        Tennessee
                     and Cumberland."20 On the twenty-ninth, McClellan
                    telegraphed enthusiastically, "Your letter received. 
                  
                     17
                            Official Records, Series 1, VII, 561.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., Series 1, IV, 355-356.
                  
                     19 The letter of instructions actually given Buell, bearing the date
                            November 12, apparently replaced a letter dated the seventh, which did not receive
                            McClellan's signature, though the editors indicated that it was written by him. Ibid., 342. This letter said that if it were not for political
                            considerations, Buell's first and principal objective point should probably be 
                                Nashville
                            . After indicating that there should be a defensive attitude on the 
                                Louisville
                            –
                                Nashville
                             line, the letter directed Buell to "throw the mass of your forces by
                            rapid marches, by 
                                Cumberland Gap
                             or Walker's Gap, on 
                                Knoxville
                            , in order to occupy the railroad at that point, and thus enable the loyal
                            citizens of Eastern 
                                Tennessee
                             to rise …." The letter of the twelfth made no reference
                            whatever to 
                                Nashville
                             but spoke of the full conversations on the subject of military operations that
                            McClellan and Buell had had, so it seems certain that an operation toward 
                                Nashville
                             had been talked about. As a directive the letter of the twelfth was weakened by
                            the ending: "If the military suggestions I have made in this letter prove to have
                            been founded on erroneous data, you are, of course, perfectly free to change the plans of
                            operation." Ibid., 355. Buell may not have taken the move on
                            eastern 
                                Tennessee
                             very seriously, and in a dispatch to McClellan on November 23, he said,
                            "I have a letter from the Adjutant-General. Have you seen cause to curtail my
                            discretion?" Ibid., Series 1, VII, 445. He seemed to be
                            stretching the concluding sentence McClellan wrote.
                  
                     20 Observing Buell's shifting of troops, McClellan sent him
                            on November 27 the tart telegram: "GENERAL: What is the reason for concentration of
                            troops at 
                                Louisville
                            ? I urge movement at once on Eastern 
                                Tennessee
                            , unless it is impossible. No letter from you for several days. Reply. I still
                            trust your judgment, though urging my own views." Ibid., 450,
                            Buell replied at length the same day. Ibid., 450-452.
               
                     I fully approve of your course and agree in your
                        views."21 In a letter written the same night the General in Chief
                    said that the East 
                        Tennessee
                     move still had precedence, but he thought the two operations could perhaps go forward
                        simultaneously.22 Thus the day before Miss Carroll gave her paper to Scott
                    the Army High Command spoke approvingly of a move up the rivers. McClellan sounded out Halleck upon
                    the subject,23 and the day after Christmas the 
                        St. Louis
                     general, though busy with saboteurs, ended a long letter, "If I receive arms
                    in time to carry out my present plans in 
                        Missouri
                     I think I shall be able to strongly re-enforce Cairo and Paducah for ulterior
                    operations by the early part of February."24
            
            Grant now came back into the story. A report that he sent to 
                        St. Louis
                     on January 6 ended, "If it meets the approval of the general commanding the
                    department, I would be pleased to visit headquarters on business connected with this
                        command."25 In his Memoirs, Grant said he wished
                    to discuss a move up the 
                        Tennessee
                    ,26 and no one knowing much about him will doubt the statement.
                    January 8 brought a letter from Halleck,27 but instead of giving him permission
                    to come to 
                        St. Louis
                    , it directed Grant to make a demonstration in western 
                        Kentucky
                    . The story back of this demonstration is somewhat intricate, but is fully set forth in
                    the records,28
                    
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., 457.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., 457-458. McClellan said, "… I now feel sure
                            that I have a ‘lieutenant’ in whom I can fully rely. Your views are
                            right. You have seized the true strategic base, and from 
                                Lebanon
                             can move where you will. Keep up the hearts of the Tennesseeans. Make them feel
                            that, far from any intention of deserting them, all will be done to sustain them
                            …." After indicating a move into eastern 
                                Tennessee
                             with 15,000 men, and a strong attack—as Buell had
                            proposed—on 
                                Nashville
                            , with perhaps 50,000 men, McClellan said, "I think we owe it to our
                            Union friends in Eastern 
                                Tennessee
                             to protect them at all hazards. First, secure that; then, if you possess the
                            means, carry 
                                Nashville
                            ."
                  
                     23 McClellan said in his letter to Buell, "I have telegraphed
                            to-day to Halleck for information as to his gunboats. You shall have a sufficient number of
                            them to perform the operations you suggest. I will place C. F. Smith under your orders and
                            replace his command by other troops." Ibid., 458.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., Series 1, VIII, 463.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., Series 1, VII, 534.
                  
                     26
                            Personal Memoirs of U. S. Grant (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1885), I, 287.
                  
                     27
                            Official Records, Series 1, VII, 533-534. The letter is dated the sixth.
                            Grant answered on the eighth that he had received it that morning. Ibid.,
                            537-538.
                  
                     28 Lincoln was forced to take an active part in plans when McClellan
                            became sick near the end of December, 1861. His chief of staff, who was also his
                            father-in–law, was ill at the same time. On December 31, Lincoln wired Halleck:
                            "General McClellan is sick. Are General Buell and yourself in concert? When he
                            moves on Bowling Green, what hinders it being reenforced from 
                                Columbus
                            ? A simultaneous movement by you on 
                                Columbus
                             might prevent it." Ibid., 524. A similar dispatch
                            went to Buell. Clearly Lincoln knew that a movement on 
                                Nashville
                             by Buell was intended as well as one on 
                                Knoxville
                            , and he also was well informed about the railroad from 
                                Columbus
                             to Bowling Green, which gave the Confederates excellent means of concentrating
                            rapidly at a threatened point. Telegrams the next day from Buell and Halleck indicated that
                            they were not "in concert" but were working through McClellan. Ibid., 526. Buell stated there was nothing to prevent Bowling Green being
                            re-enforced from 
                                Columbus
                             unless that place were threatened. Halleck said he was not ready for
                            co-operation but hoped to be in a few weeks, ending, "Too much haste will ruin
                            everything." Lincoln immediately suggested that the generals get in touch with each
                            other and Buell wired—still on January 1—that he had telegraphed
                            Halleck. On January 4, Lincoln wired Buell "Have arms gone forward for East 
                                    Tennessee
                                ? Please tell me the progress and condition of the movement in that
                                direction. Answer." Ibid., 530. In his telegraphic reply
                                Buell virtually admitted that he had never thought much of the East 
                                    Tennessee
                                 movement. Ibid., 530-531. This statement brought letters
                                from both Lincoln and McClellan expressing great disappointment. Ibid., 927-928, 531. On the twelfth, Buell telegraphed McClellan, "I have
                                received your letter, and will at once devote all my efforts to your views. Will write
                                to-night." Ibid., 547. In his letter, he said he would stop
                                active operations toward Bowling Green. Ibid., 548-549.
                            When Halleck ordered Grant to make the demonstration, he believed Buell would start an
                                advance on Bowling Green any day. There was a delay, and on the tenth Halleck said in a
                                telegram to Buell, "Fix a day when you wish the demonstration, but put it off
                                as long as possible, in order that I may increase the strength of the force."
                                    Ibid., 543. The next day he wired Grant, "I can hear
                                nothing from Buell, so fix your own time for the advance …." Ibid., 544. Presumably Buell thought Halleck would do nothing if he
                                did not "fix a day."
                  
               
                     and Mrs. Greenbie got a distorted idea about it because she
                    consulted newspapers instead of the official documents.29
            
            The twentieth saw Grant back from the demonstration, after his troops had done a good deal of
                    marching through mud and rain. In the letter in which he reported his return he again asked for
                    permission to visit headquarters, adding "as I have before desired."30 The twenty-second brought permission 
                  
                     29 In his instructions to Grant, Halleck fully explained the purpose
                            of the demonstration and told him to "make a great fuss about moving all your
                            forces towards 
                                Nashville
                            , and let it be so reported by the newspapers." He also instructed him
                            to deceive his own men and not even let members of his staff be correctly informed. The
                            entire operation was naturally completely misunderstood by correspondents, and Mrs.
                            Greenbie's account, My Dear Lady, 172-174, is built on what was
                            written by Galway, a reporter for the 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, January 23, 1862, who said in one dispatch, "The whole
                            expedition [in the West] seems to be about as incomprehensible as to its objects and results
                            as anything well can be." Mrs. Greenbie left the impression that the demonstration
                            was somehow intended as a blind for the movement up the 
                                Tennessee
                            .
                  
                     30
                            Official Records, Series 1, VII, 565-566. The letter is dated January 25,
                            but the date should be January 20, as other dispatches Grant sent that day indicate. A
                            report from Cairo on the twenty-first which was carried by the 
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune on the twenty-second stated that the last of the troops had
                            returned. Grant's message indicated the last units would be back
                            "tomorrow."
               
                     and presently the Cairo general was face to face with
                        Halleck,31 whom he had known slightly in the "old army."
                    The meeting was a dismal and historic failure, Grant writing in his Memoirs that
                    he was received with so little cordiality that he perhaps presented his case badly, and was quickly
                    made to feel that his plan was "preposterous."32 It is a hard
                    thing to understand, for several days before—just after he had returned to duty from a
                    week's absence with the measles —Halleck had written to McClellan that the 
                        Tennessee
                     and Cumberland gave the true line of operations in the West.33 He
                    had said in addition that by the middle or last of February he might be able—if he
                    received arms—to double his force at 
                        Cairo
                     and Paducah; then if he could get some thirty to forty thousand men from elsewhere, he
                    would have the number of effectives he believed necessary to hold his bases and advance.
            Upon his return to Cairo, Grant found—if he had not received it before he went to 
                        St. Louis
                    —a report from Smith about a personal reconnaissance of Fort Henry.34 He thought, said Smith, that the place could be reduced by two of the new
                    gunboats recently finished at 
                        Cairo
                    . On the twenty-eighth, Grant sent Halleck the historic telegram that Mrs. Greenbie
                    missed, but which is given in many places: "With permission, I will take Fort Henry, on the 
                        Tennessee
                    , and establish and 
                  
                     31 Halleck to Grant, January 22, Official Records,
                            Series 1, VII, 561-562. In a letter written to his sister Mary on the twenty-third, Grant
                            said, "I go tonight to 
                                St. Louis
                             to see General Halleck; will be back on Sunday morning [the
                            twenty-sixth]." Jesse Grant Cramer (ed.), Letters of Ulysses S. Grant
                                to his Father and his Youngest
                            Sister, 1857-78 (
                                New York
                            , 1912), 77-79. That Grant was anticipating activity as the result of his visit
                            was shown by the sentence, "I expect but little quiet from this on and if you
                            receive but short, unsatisfactory letters hereafter you need not be surprised."
                  
                     32
                            Personal Memoirs of U.S. Grant, I, 287.
                  
                     33
                            Official Records, Series 1, VIII, 508-511. In this very important
                            document, in which Halleck discussed operations both east and west of the 
                                Mississippi
                            , he said, "The idea of moving down the 
                                Mississippi
                             by steam is, in my opinion, impracticable, or at least premature. It is not a
                            proper line of operations, at least now." In his reply of January 29, McClellan
                            said, "I like your views as to the future. They fully agree with my own ideas from
                            the beginning, which has ever been against a movement in force down the 
                                Mississippi
                             itself." Ibid., Series 1, VII, 930-931.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., 561. The dispatch was written on January 22 at 
                                Callaway
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            , a small place on the 
                                Tennessee
                            , fifteen miles below Fort Henry. Smith said a steamer would start for Paducah
                            with some sick men and the mail at eight o'clock the next morning.
               
                     hold a large camp there."35
                    Commodore Foote sent a telegram, indorsing Grant's idea and cornered Halleck by concluding
                    his message, "Have we your authority to move … when ready?"36
            
            Halleck now faced one of the greatest decisions of his career. Could he advance the 
                        Tennessee
                     operation by at least two weeks? Could he get re-enforcements to Grant in time to
                    insure success? How would the Confederates at 
                        Columbus
                    , only fifteen miles below Cairo, react when most of the Federal troops there and at 
                        Paducah
                     went up the 
                        Tennessee
                    ? The 
                        St. Louis
                     general decided boldly and the next day he wired Foote that he was waiting to hear from
                    Smith about the condition of the road from Paducah to Fort Henry, adding, "As soon as that
                    is received will give order. Meantime, have everything ready." Foote replied the same day
                    that four gunboats would be ready by February 1, saying also that both he and Grant thought it would
                    be well to start not later than the third, and adding that the road in question was reported
                        good.37
            
            Then a new person abruptly entered the picture—but it was not Anna Carroll. It was a
                    Confederate deserter, and strange as it may seem, a deserter from 
                        Centerville
                    , in far off 
                        Virginia
                    . To both Halleck and Buell, McClellan telegraphed on the thirtieth that a deserter just
                    in reported that General Pierre G. T. Beauregard—of Sumter and Bull Run
                    fame—had been in CenterviUe four days before. But the deserter had added that as he went
                    on picket he heard some officers say that Beauregard was under orders to go to 
                        Kentucky
                     with fifteen regiments. The learned but busy Halleck misread the message, and thinking
                    that the famous Beauregard had started west with re-enforcements four days before, he wired
                    McClellan, "General Grant, and Commodore Foote will be ordered to immediately advance, and
                    to reduce and hold Fort Henry …."35 Since nothing was said
                    about 
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., 121. Grant virtually quoted the dispatch in his Personal Memoirs, I, 287. Any study of the 
                                Tennessee
                             campaign should certainly include what the officer who led it had to say about
                            it. Though Mrs. Greenbie showed familiarity with Grant's Personal
                                Memoirs, she asserted that Grant "knew nothing of it [the 
                                Tennessee
                             movement] till he was ordered up that river by Halleck." My Dear Lady, 156.
                  
                     36
                            Official Records, Series 1, VII, 120.
                  
                     37
                            Official Records of the Union and Confederate Navies in the War of the
                                Rebellion (27 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1894-1917), Series 1, XXII (1908), 525-526.
                  
                     38
                            Official Records, Series 1, VII, 571, 572.
               
                     the messages from Grant and Foote asking permission to make the
                    move and underwriting it, the telegram from 
                        St. Louis
                     must have given McClellan considerable surprise.
            Halleck alerted Grant with the order: "Make your preparations to take and hold Fort Henry. I
                    will send you written instructions by mail." The letter that followed said that Beauregard
                    had left Manassas four days before with fifteen regiments for the 
                        Columbus
                    –Bowling Green line, and directed, "You will move with the least
                    delay possible."39
            
            Buell was not forgotten, but was startled with the message, "I have ordered an advance of
                    our troops on Fort Henry and Dover. It will be made immediately." The 
                        Louisville
                     general replied, "Please let me know your plan and force and the time,
                    &c." but to McClellan, Buell wrote, "I protest against such prompt
                    proceedings, as though I had nothing to do but command ‘Commence firing’ when
                    he starts off."40
            
            Quietly, efficiently, and with speed Grant went about assembling his task force from at least five
                    different places, gathering up his sick, providing for defense of the positions he left, and
                    perfecting plans with Foote. On February 3, he telegraphed Halleck from Paducah, "Will be
                    off up the 
                        Tennessee
                     at 6 o'clock. Command, twenty-three regiments in all.""
            Such is the story as given in the Official Records. Coherent and complete, it
                    simply does not leave any place for the Carroll claim.
            Noble asserted that Lincoln ordered Smith to reconnoiter Fort Henry.42 Where is
                    the order? Where is the early January report—presumably to Lincoln—of which he
                    spoke? In the records there is a report concerning Fort Henry dated October 16, that Smith sent to 
                        St. Louis
                    , and one dated November 8 to 
                        Washington
                    ,43 not only about Henry but about 
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., 121-122.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., 574, 933.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., 581.
                  
                     42 Noble, Woman with a Sword, 400. After incorrectly
                            stating that the replies of Halleck and Buell to Lincoln's telegram of December 21,
                            1861, indicated that they had no plans to move until May 1 at the earliest, Noble stated the
                            President at once decided on his own course of action and directed Smith to reconnoiter Port
                            Henry. What Lincoln actually did, as shown in the records, was described in note 28.
                  
                     43
                            Official Records, Series 1, IV, 308-309, 345-346. Smith said the work on
                            the Cumberland was "usually called Fort Gavock." Lieutenant Colonel R. W.
                            MacGavock was in command, but referred to the fort as Fort Donelson. Ibid., 519.
               
                     Fort Donelson, a work twelve miles east of Henry, located on
                    the Cumberland, to block the direct water route to 
                        Nashville
                    . But Smith's statement that he thought Fort Henry could be easily reduced was
                    sent to Grant on January 23, and it was the result of the demonstration that Halleck had ordered.
            Secret orders from Lincoln in late January to Buell and Halleck were, Noble stated, the cause of
                    Grant's thrust up the 
                        Tennessee
                    . Finding no trace of them in the records he reasoned them into existence, and in a
                    strange way indeed. He observed44 that the first draft of the letter written by
                    the Secretary of War, Edwin M. Stanton, to Horace Greeley, editor of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune, soon after the capture of Fort Donelson, contained the statement,
                    "The movement and concert of action between Generals Halleck and Buell was directed by the
                        President."45 This, Noble contended, revealed too much, so the
                    Secretary struck it out. But Noble omitted from Stanton's deletion, for after the words
                    quoted followed, "—as I am informed." This shows that Stanton had no
                    personal knowledge of any order from Lincoln to Buell and Halleck. That he in fact knew there had
                    been no such order is proved by a letter he wrote to Buell on February 9.
            McClellan had turned over to the Secretary of War a long letter from Buell written on February 1, but
                    not mailed until the sixth, the very day that Fort Henry was captured.46 Buell
                    asked for authority to abandon the move on 
                        Knoxville
                     which both Lincoln and McClellan had strongly urged upon him early in January, saying
                    that he had been "forced reluctantly to the conviction that an advance into East 
                        Tennessee
                     is impracticable at this time on any scale that will be sufficient." As an
                    alternative he suggested a determined and persistent attack up the Cumberland
                    and Tennessee, saying that the enemy's "center is now the
                    most vulnerable point, and it is also the most decisive." Stanton answered: "The
                    President directs me to say that he has read your communication to Maj. Gen. G. B. McClellan dated
                    the 1st and mailed the 6th of this month, and he approves the operations you propose therein, and
                    believes, if vigorously prosecuted they cannot fail. 
                  
                     44 Noble, Woman with a Sword, 400.
                  
                     45 Stanton Papers, IV, 50812. These papers are in the Division of
                            Manuscripts, Library of Congress, 
                                Washington, D. C.
                            
                  
                  
                     46
                            Official Records, Series 1, VII, 931-933. The original of this very
                            important letter is in the Stanton Papers, III, 50553-50556, the envelope bearing the
                            postmark of February 6.
               
                     He desires you and Major-General Halleck to co-operate as far
                    as possible, and says that your two heads together will succeed."47
            
            Thus it was three days after the capture of Fort Henry that Lincoln approved the operation up the
                    rivers. With such a letter in the Official Records, it is mere nonsense to talk
                    about some secret order from Lincoln to Buell and Halleck in late January being responsible for the
                    movement.
            If the records destroy Miss Carroll's claim, how is one to dispose of the supporting
                    material she presented to Congress? Most of it can be eliminated at once as the testimony or opinion
                    of uninformed persons. Only Ben Wade and Thomas Scott have to be considered,48
                    and both Mrs. Greenbie and Noble built much of their claims on what those men said. Wade goes out
                    rather easily. The congressional committee of which he was chairman apparently never investigated
                    the Tennessee River campaign, so he had no special knowledge about it, while
                    the very intimate friendship that existed between Miss Carroll and his wife made him a biased
                    advocate. That he was an extremely partisan person was proved by the fact that near the beginning of
                    the election campaign of 1864, he joined with Senator Henry Winter Davis in a bitter newspaper
                    denunciation of Lincoln because the President gave a pocket veto to the reconstruction bill they
                    favored. A man with such vindictiveness is hardly to be trusted when he later wrote of Lincoln,
                    unless there is corroborative evidence. Nor was Wade's reputation enhanced in the minds of
                    many when he voted for conviction in the impeachment trial of Andrew Johnson, for the next man in
                    line for the office was Ben Wade. Miss Carroll's champions do not refer to the cautious
                    regard that historians of the period have for Wade's statements, and accept as a
                    cornerstone of their thesis a letter he wrote to Miss Carroll in 1876, two years before his death at
                    the age of eighty-two. Part of it is easily refuted and part is an alleged statement that Stanton
                        
                  
                     47
                            Ibid., 937-938.
                  
                     48 In his article "Anna Ella Carroll and her
                            ‘Modest’ Claim," Lincoln Herald, L, 2-10,
                            F. Lauriston Bullard said (pp. 9-10), "Of the many men whose endorsements fill
                            scores of pages in Miss Carroll's Petitions and Memorials only two can be regarded
                            as contributing primary evidence; these men were Assistant Secretary of War, Thomas A.
                            Scott, and Benjamin F. Wade, chairman of the Committee on the Conduct of the
                        War."
               
                     made on his deathbed nine years before, for which corroboration
                    is lacking.
            The only person with firsthand knowledge of military matters who supported Miss Carroll was Thomas
                    Scott, and he was in an embarrassed position because he went back to the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Railroad in the summer of 1862 before Miss Carroll's pamphleteering bill had
                    been fully paid. Though he wrote his successor that he thought she should receive the
                    $6,750 asked for and added he would sign any voucher necessary, the successor evidently
                    viewed the matter differently, and Miss Carroll appears to have received only $1,250 in
                        all.49 In 1870 and again in 1872, Scott wrote a letter to the chairman of
                    the Senate Military Committee supporting Miss Carroll's Tennessee
                    River case. According to two versions of the first letter in congressional documents,
                    Scott gave Miss Carroll's plan only to the Secretary of War, who at the time was Simon
                    Cameron, while two versions stated he also gave it to the President. All versions of the 1872 letter
                    agreed in saying he gave the plan not only to the Secretary but to Lincoln.50
            
            In the second letter, Scott stated that after Stanton was appointed secretary he "was
                    directed to go to the western armies and arrange to increase their effective force as rapidly as
                    possible," for the purpose of carrying through the Tennessee River
                    campaign, "then inaugurated." This looks like a complete and authoritative
                    indorsement of the Carroll case. But Scott's letter falls completely to pieces when put
                    against documents written in the last of January and the first of February, 1862—some by
                    Thomas Scott himself.
            Much depends upon when Scott made his trip. His own statement seems to imply it was promptly after
                    Stanton succeeded Cameron, which was January 15. Miss Carroll intimated 
                  
                     49 Scott to Tucker, January 16, 1863, House Miscellaneous
                                Documents, 44 Cong., 1 Sess. no. 179 (serial no. 1706), 7, 82. Bullard,
                            "Anna Ella Carroll and her ‘Modest’ Claim," Lincoln Herald, L, 5, placed the total Carroll claim at $6,250,
                            breaking it down into parts for the three different pamphlets she had written, and stated
                            that the $1,250 which she received on October, 1861, might have been paid by
                            Scott himself.
                  
                     50
                            House Miscellaneous Documents, 44 Cong., 1 Sess., no. 179. The letter is
                            given on page 41, and contains the words "which I submitted to the Secretary of War
                            and President Lincoln." As given in the Senate Miscellaneous
                            Documents, 45 Cong., 1 Sess., no. 5 (serial no. 1785), 2, the words "and
                            President Lincoln are wanting. The later version differs from the earlier also in the
                            position of the address and in the signature, as well as slightly in punctuation.
               
                     this more strongly, and Wade wrote to Miss Carroll in 1876,
                    "It was determined that, as soon as Mr. Stanton came into the department, Colonel Scott
                    should go …."51 Noble, perhaps taking his cue from Mrs.
                    Greenbie, asserted that there is evidence that even before Stanton's confirmation,
                    "Colonel Scott was rushed West with a letter of secret instructions from Stanton to prepare
                    a huge striking force to ascend the 
                        Tennessee
                    ."52 Though the letter of instructions that Stanton gave to
                    Scott was published in 1875,53 neither the biographer nor the novelist
                    apparently ever saw it. Not only was it dated January 29, two weeks after Stanton took over, but it
                    shows Scott was sent west for a very different reason than he later alleged.
            What lay behind Scott's trip is easy to discover. On January 27, Lincoln signed the
                    President's War Order No. I,54 a document which has received
                    considerable criticism. Since the original is in the Stanton Papers, it came to Noble's
                    attention, and without any authority, he said Miss Carroll's proposal was responsible for
                        it,55 though students of the Civil War know that the inactivity of the great
                    Army of the Potomac at 
                        Washington
                     was becoming a matter of country-wide ridicule which was goading Lincoln to take a
                    hand. But what really counts is what the order said, and this Noble withheld from his readers.
            In the order Lincoln set February 22 as "the day for a general movement of the land and
                    naval forces of the 
                        United States
                     against the insurgent forces." Immediately after receiving the
                    President's order Stanton wrote Wade a letter, marked "most
                        confidential,"56 which began: "An order has this day been
                    made by the President requiring all the armies in the field to place themselves in
                    fighting order immediately, and to commence operations by a specific date." Even the
                    senator was not intrusted with the President's D-day, and 
                  
                     51 Greenbie, My Dear Lady, 297.
                  
                     52 Noble, Woman with a Sword, 400.
                  
                     53 William B. Sipes, The 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Railroad: its Origin, Construction, Conditions, and Connections (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1875), 15-16. The letter begins, "For the purpose of efficient
                            organization of this department, ascertaining and organizing the requisite forces and means
                            for combined active operation, you are requested to proceed from this city
                  
                     54
                            Official Records, Series 1, V (1881), 41.
                  
                     55 Noble, Woman with a Sword, 400.
                  
                     56 Stanton Papers, II, 50276.
               
                     in later years, indeed if not at the time, Wade may have
                    confused the movement that Grant made up the 
                        Tennessee
                     with the operations that Stanton said Lincoln had ordered. Likewise it seems certain
                    that Scott's trip looked forward to the very indefinite moves that Lincoln had in mind for 
                        Washington
                    's birthday, and not the movement that Grant and Foote started on February 3.
            Both Mrs. Greenbie and Noble referred to the letters57 that Scott wrote to
                    Stanton while on his trip, but neither told what was in them. For the most part they gave a
                    painstaking enumeration of equipment, and discussed supply departments —in accordance
                    with the major points in his instructions— with some mention of new regiments, until
                    Scott reached 
                        Indianapolis
                     early on February 5. There the momentous news of the day burst upon him when he saw a
                    telegram that Governor Oliver P. Morton had received from Halleck, asking if Indiana could give him
                    some regiments. Learning that Scott was in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Halleck telegraphed directly to him: "I want all the infantry regiments at 
                        Cairo
                     you can possibly send me there, in order to re-enforce the column now moving up the
                        Tennessee River …. Send me all the re-enforcements you can, as I
                    wish to cut the enemy's line before Beauregard arrives."58
                    Scott wired 
                        Washington
                     for instructions, and though he received none that day, he completely changed his
                        itinerary,59 and thereafter his trip took on a totally new character.
                    Presently the Assistant Secretary was sending a special messenger to 
                        Washington
                     with a description of the ambitious plan that Halleck had developed, accompanying it
                    with an impressive map.60
            
            
               
                  57
                        Ibid., passim.
               
                  58
                        Official Records, Series 1, VII, 585.
               
                  59 According to his letter of instructions, Scott was to go to
                                
                     Springfield, Illinois
                  , from 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Instead he went to 
                            Louisville
                        , which he had been directed to visit on his return trip, after he had been at 
                            St. Louis
                        , Cairo, and Paducah. On February 6, he wrote from 
                            Louisville
                        , "After closing my report from 
                            Indianapolis
                         last night—not having received a response to messages sent
                        you—I concluded to remain until morning and then proceed to 
                            Louisville
                         to lay before General Buell all the data in relation to military organizations in 
                            Ohio
                        , Indiana and 
                            Michigan
                        , in order to enable him the more effectually to aid General Halleck in the
                            Tennessee River movement." Stanton Papers, III, 50757.
               
                  60 On February 9, Scott wrote Stanton from 
                            St. Louis
                         saying he had arrived the day before, but had not been able to see Halleck or his
                        staff. Ibid., III, 50668-50669. Halleck was very busy trying to get
                        re-enforcements for Grant as well as supervise and plan for Curtis's operation toward
                                
                     Springfield, Missouri
                  . Scott stated that the longer he was in the West
                        the more convinced he was of the views expressed in his "second report from 
                            Louisville
                         (in regard to the movement of our forces into the centre of the enemy's
                        line at points on the Cumberland and Tennessee Rivers
                        near the scene of the late action [Fort Henry]— and beyond that point of Clarksville,
                        and subsequently 
                            Nashville
                         & 
                            Memphis
                        —as centers for great action) …." He stated he
                        thought it would be necessary to bring men from the Army of the Potomac to get the needed force.
                            Scott went to Cairo on the tenth, and there received a letter from Halleck written on the
                            twelfth in which the general said, "I was very much disappointed in not meeting you
                            again before you left. Can't you touch here on your way to 
                                Springfield
                            ? There are several things I wished to talk with you about. First of all the
                            proposed movement up the 
                                Tennessee
                             and Cumberland. I put my views in the form of a letter for you to
                            Sec'y Stanton. I send the draft as then written. If you approve the project I hope
                            you will urge it, both by telegraph and letter. McClellan approves if Buell is willing.
                            Buell is ‘willing,’ but hesitates and asks questions. If we are to act
                            we must do so promptly. I have not the slightest doubt of the policy of the plan and will
                            stake my military reputation on its complete success, if they will give me the
                                forces which are now useless elsewhere." Ibid., Ill, 50757.
                        The letter Halleck had prepared for Scott to send Stanton began, "I have conversed
                            with Gen'l Halleck and agree with him that the 
                                Tennessee
                             and Cumberland constitute the proper line for an early spring
                            campaign." Ibid., III, 50646-50647. Scott forwarded both
                            Halleck's letter of the ninth and the twelfth to Stanton, and said in his
                            accompanying letter of the fourteenth from Cairo "… there is a little
                            desire on the part of General H. to outgeneral General B., who is a very careful, prudent,
                            and will prove himself an eminently successful general if well supported." Ibid., III, 50765-50766.
                        On February 16—the day Fort Donelson fell—Scott was back in 
                                St. Louis
                             and wrote to Stanton, "After a full discussion [with Halleck] I am now
                            satisfied that his views and aims are thoroughly patriotic and honorable." Ibid., III, 50795-50799. The map that Scott sent to 
                                Washington
                             showed objectives as far south as northern 
                                Mississippi
                            . He said Halleck wanted 50,000 men from the East, a proposal in which Buell
                            concurred. On February 21, Stanton wrote to Scott praising Halleck's activity, and
                            saying he would direct his attention to sending troops to Halleck and Buell, but that he did
                            not know whether McClellan would agree—the future would have to show. Ibid., IV, 50821-50827.
               
            
            
            Scott's letters thus show that he did nothing to initiate the movement up the 
                        Tennessee
                    ; he found it already started and sought to persuade 
                        Washington
                     to support Halleck's mature and extensive plan. Apparently McClellan had not
                    even informed Stanton of Halleck's telegram saying he was ordering Grant and Foote to take
                    Fort Henry.61 That Scott 
                  
                     61 If Stanton had known what was impending in the West, he would
                            probably have passed the word to Scott. In his letter of February 21 to Scott, the Secretary
                            complained that Halleck and Buell were addressing communications to McClellan and not to the
                            Adjutant General. Thus the War Department had to get its information from the newspapers and
                            from what McClellan saw fit to pass on. Since Grant's move against Henry made
                            Lincoln's order of January 27 a dead letter so far as the West was concerned, the
                            question arises whether it was ever known about in that region. The only allusion to it that
                            seems to have reached Halleck—at least as far as the records show— was
                            the enigmatical sentence with which McClellan closed his letter of January 29, "It
                            is very desirable to move all along the line by the 22d of February, if possible."
                                Official Records, Series 1, VII, 930-931. Foote was given an
                            intimation that something was planned for 
                                Washington
                            's birthday by H. A. Wise, Assistant Inspector of Ordnance, who wired
                            on January 28, "The President authorizes you to make the change you require on the
                                
                                
                                    Benton
                                
                             on the terms you have submitted to General Meigs, if the work can positively be
                            executed by the 22d of February next." Official Records of the Union
                                and Confederate Navies in the War of the Rebellion, Series 1, XXII, 523.
               
                     did practically nothing in the way of getting re-enforcements
                    to Grant is shown by studying the roster of Grant's regiments; it was Major General David
                    Hunter, commanding the Department of 
                        Kansas
                    , to whom Halleck gave very effusive thanks for responding to his direct call for
                        aid.62 The huge "striking force" that Noble inferred Scott
                    prepared has no foundation in fact.
            On the eleventh of March, McClellan, who had been given permission to move the Army of the Potomac to 
                        Fort Monroe
                     to start his campaign against 
                        Richmond
                    , was removed from the position of General in Chief.63 No successor
                    was appointed until Halleck was summoned to 
                        Washington
                     in July. Lincoln and Stanton carried on general direction, with assistance from Major
                    General Ethan Allen Hitchcock, a veteran of the Mexican War who had recently returned to service.
                    The order removing McClellan also put into effect the proposal for a unified command in the West
                    which Halleck had made to McClellan on February 8, and which Scott had sent to 
                        Washington
                     by courier.64 The Secretary of War had telegraphed Halleck on the
                    twenty-second that the President did not think a change was "at present
                        advisable,"65 but with McClellan out of the way, Hunter's
                    and Halleck's old departments, and a part of Buell's were made into the new
                    Department of the 
                        Mississippi
                     with Halleck in command.
            Although Miss Carroll's supporters do not seem to have claimed that Lincoln sought to get
                    along without a General in Chief because he had the lady strategist near at hand, Mrs. Greenbie
                    stated that it was due to her heroine that Buell was 
                  
                     62
                            Official Records, Series 1, VII, 636.
                  
                     63
                            Ibid., Series 1, X, part 2, (1884), pp. 28-29.
                  
                     64
                            Ibid., Series 1, VII, 595.
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., 652. On the twenty-first, Stanton telegraphed that he was struck
                            "very favorably" with the plan, "but on account of the domestic
                            affliction of the President" (Lincoln's oldest son had died the day
                            before), had been unable to present it to him. Ibid., 648. The same day
                            Halleck wired Stanton saying that a week had been lost on account of hesitation and delay,
                            and he urged immediate action on his proposal. Ibid., 655.
               
                     able to aid Grant in the battle of 
                        Shiloh
                     (April 6-7).65 Grant, she asserted, was in command of the Federal
                    forces near Corinth, and in response to Anna's urgings Buell was started from 
                        Nashville
                     with an army to strengthen him. Of course any suggestion that Miss Carroll may have
                    made to the War Department was offered without any knowledge of instructions that Halleck had given;
                    but Mrs. Greenbie could in a few minutes have found in the Official Records the
                    correct story about Buell's move. On March 14, while Grant was still at Fort Henry, with
                    only Smith's division thrust forward to the vicinity of Savannah, Halleck wrote Buell
                    saying he thought all his force not required to defend 
                        Nashville
                     should be sent up the 
                        Tennessee
                    , adding, "This seems to be the best line of operations, as it leads directly
                    to the enemy's center, and is easily supplied. Give me your views."67 The next day Buell replied: "… Undoubtedly we should use the river
                    to get supplies, but I am decidedly of opinion that my force should strike it by marching. It can
                    move in less time … I had designed to commence moving to-morrow
                        …."68 With such messages in the records it was as absurd
                    for Mrs. Greenbie to make her claim for Miss Carroll as it was for Noble to assert that secret
                    orders were sent by Lincoln to Buell and Halleck the latter part of January.
            Miss Carroll's promoters also of course give her credit for suggesting the move by which
                    John Pope captured Island No. 10, and the operation by which Grant finally succeeded at 
                        Vicksburg
                    ; as one would expect they used Wade as their authority and neglected the records.
                    Though Mrs. Greenbie withheld from her reader the contents of Scott's letters to Stanton,
                    which blast so completely the Carroll Tennessee myth, she described two documents in the Stanton
                    Papers 
                  
                     66
                            My Dear Lady, 210.
                  
                     67
                            Official Records, Series 1, X, part 2, p. 38. At the same time that
                            Halleck was seeking to build up Grant he was having to provide for General Curtis's
                            operations in the Southwest. On March 10, he informed Grant that Curtis's recent
                            victory would release to the 
                                Tennessee
                             expedition reserves held for the other operation. Ibid., 27.
                            That there was a desire to push things in the West was shown by a telegram Scott sent
                            Stanton from 
                                Nashville
                             (occupied by the Federals February 25) on March 3, asking if McClellan could
                            come to 
                                Louisville
                             to meet Halleck and Buell "for consultation, to determine movements
                            for Western forces." He added, "I believe this to be important."
                                Ibid., Series 1, VII, 680. With the change in command in the West that
                            was made in a few days, such a meeting would be unnecessary, for Halleck's plans
                            were known to both Scott and Stanton.
                  
                     68
                            Ibid., Series 1, X, part 2, pp. 38-39.
               
                     that charge Grant with drunkenness and immorality.69 One was made out by an officer Grant had put in arrest and whose transfer he
                    had requested, and who had previously been cautioned by the Quartermaster General about his
                    inability to get along with officers.70 The other was a scurrilous sheet, 
                  
                     69
                            My Dear Lady, 175, 178-179.
                  
                     70 On January 14, Grant wrote in a letter to department headquarters,
                            "Captain Kountz, who was recently sent here as master of transportation, from his
                            great unpopularity with river men and his wholesale denunciation of everybody connected with
                            the Government here as thieves and cheats, was entirely unable to get crews for the
                            necessary boats." After giving more particulars, Grant said, "I have been
                            compelled to order his arrest. I would respectfully ask that he be ordered to another field
                            of duty." Official Records, Series 1, VII, 551-552. A study of
                                Kountz has been made by Theodore R. Parker, "William J. Kountz, Superintendent
                                of River Transportation under McClellan, 1861-1862," Western 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                     Historical Magazine (
                                    Pittsburgh
                                , 1918-), XXI (1938), 237-254. Parker stated that Kountz interfered with
                                movements of troops and supplies soon after January 10— which was when Grant
                                was preparing for his demonstration—and adds that Grant acted in the public
                                interest when he overruled Kountz. He also indicated that before Kountz came West he had
                                been cautioned by Quartermaster General Meigs. Kountz, described by Parker as an
                                uncompromising teetotaler, preferred charges against Grant for drunkenness. He sent them
                                directly to 
                                    St. Louis
                                , and Halleck returned them to Grant with instructions that they come
                                properly through his headquarters. Grant added an indorsement directing Kountz to
                                furnish him a duplicate copy. There the matter might have rested had not Scott arrived
                                and found Kountz in arrest (restricted to Cairo). The two men were acquainted, Scott in
                                fact having gone on Kountz's bond. With Grant away, Scott heard only one side
                                of the story. He wrote at some length on the case to Stanton and forwarded the charges,
                                which was in a way by-passing Halleck.
                            One of the specifications in Kountz's charges was that Grant drank to the point
                                of intoxication on December 6, 1861, with Confederate officers, while on a flag of truce
                                boat to 
                                    Columbus
                                . There evidently was a flag of truce boat on that date, but a note Grant
                                wrote on the fifth to General Leonidas Polk, Confederate commander at 
                                    Columbus
                                , suggested that he did not intend to go personally on the boat. Official Records, Series 2, I (1894), 528-529. Polk made a written
                                reply on the sixth. Ibid., 529. On November 15, Polk—a
                                bishop in the Episcopal church—wrote to his wife about having met Grant on
                                flag of truce boats. He reported the Union general as "grave" and
                                seemingly not at ease at first, adding, "I was favorably impressed with him; he
                                is undoubtedly a man of much force. We have now exchanged five or six flags, and he
                                grows more civil and respectful every time." William M. Polk, "General
                                Polk and the Battle of Belmont," Battles and Leaders of the Civil
                                    War (4 vols., 
                                    New York
                                , 1887), I, 348-357. What actually took place December 6 on the flag of
                                truce boat cannot be said with certainty; nor can one be certain that the six witnesses
                                Kountz listed— three civilians, three absent captains—ever saw his
                                charges. Mrs. Greenbie made no reference to the fact that Grant had put Kountz in
                                arrest, and inaccurately said that the charges were made by him "and six
                                witnesses," and that they asked "for a court-martial." No one
                                asked that Grant be court-martialed. Samuel R. Kamm, The Civil War Career
                                    of Thomas A. Scott (
                                    Philadelphia
                                , 1940), spoke of Kountz as a "stormy petrel."
                  
               
                     which Mrs. Greenbie said was "sent" to the
                    War Department by twenty-three officers. It was probably sent by Scott, and though it gave the names
                    of twenty-three persons as witnesses, it was in fact anonymous since no one had written his
                    signature below the charges.71
            
            In a letter to Grant in January, 1867,72 Miss Carroll virtually admitted that his 
                        Tennessee
                     operation may have been entirely independent of her suggestion, and the general having
                    previously told her that the idea should have occurred to any military person, she was driven to
                    seek priority in recording it. She told Grant he should write down whether he knew anyone had
                    thought of it, and that he should give "the date when the 
                        Tennessee
                     became in your mind the plan of conducting the campaign in the Southwest, and to whom
                    you communicated it, verbally, or otherwise." Naturally Grant did not comply. But his
                    statement that the operation was obvious was not just a soldier's unkind way of keeping
                    credit from Miss Carroll. Immediately after the capture of Fort Donelson the papers had debated
                    whether credit should go to Halleck, Buell, Foote, or Grant, and on March 22, Grant wrote to his
                    good friend, Congressman Elihu B. Washburne, "I see the credit of attacking the enemy by
                    the way of the 
                        Tennessee
                     and Cumberland is variously attributed. It is little to talk about it being the great
                    wisdom of any general that first brought forth this plan of attack. Our gunboats 
                  
                     71 This paper was as incorrectly drawn up as it was grotesque in
                            character. In reality there was no charge, the various so-called "charges"
                            being in the nature of specifications. The paper was dated February 8, and though Scott did
                            not mention it in his letters to Stanton from Cairo, Kamm would seem to be correct in saying
                            that Scott sent it in. The Civil War Career of Thomas A. Scott, 105, n.
                            87. Mrs. Greenbie said that on February 10, while paeans of victory were still sounding for
                            Fort Henry, the War Department was contemplating sourly an enlargement of the charges
                            against Grant which had been suspended just before he went up the Tennessee
                            River. My Dear Lady, 178. There being no air mail at the time,
                            it is hard to see how a paper dated February 8 could have been in 
                                Washington
                             on the tenth. Of course no charges had been suspended. Grant returned the
                            charge sheet to Kountz on January 29; and Scott sent it to Stanton on February 12, nine days
                            after Grant went up the 
                                Tennessee
                            . Mrs. Greenbie stated that Miss Carroll heard while in 
                                St. Louis
                             about Grant's drinking, that he did not drink like a gentleman, and
                            that ugly and disgusting stories were circulating freely among officers and enlisted men
                            about his behavior when drunk. Is it too much to assume that this statement was made without
                            any basis whatsoever and was only a guess or inference from the paper written at 
                                Cairo
                             on February 8 by an unknown person?
                  
                     72
                            House Miscellaneous Documents, 44 Cong., 1 Sess., no. 179, pp.
                        120-121.
               
                     were running up the 
                        Tennessee
                     and Cumberland Rivers all fall and winter watching the progress of the rebels on these
                    works [Forts Henry and Donelson]. General Halleck no doubt thought of this route long ago, and I am
                    sure I did."73 Thus the perfect answer to the whole question was early
                    put on paper, though not on public record.
            One must face the question whether Miss Carroll definitely distorted things. In 1886, a year after
                    Grant's death, she wrote a magazine article to explain the origin of the 
                        Tennessee
                     campaign.74 In connection with her 
                        St. Louis
                     visit she said: "I went to General Fremont's. He was absent on one of
                    his expeditions. His wife was in command at 
                        St. Louis
                    ." The slap at the prominent and aggressive Jessie Benton Fremont was not just
                    jealousy; it was a misrepresentation. In the article Miss Carroll also boasted of telling Grant that
                    she knew no military person who would think of asking a river pilot about the navigability of a
                    river. Did she actually believe that?
            There is something worse, however, than merely suspicious manifestations. Though in the paper
                    referred to Miss Carroll maligned the Seventh 
                        Iowa
                     Regiment by speaking of seeing it "fleeing" to 
                        Benton
                     Barracks when it returned to 
                        St. Louis
                     a few days after the battle of Belmont, she did not 
                  
                     73
                            General Grant's Letters to a Friend, 1861-1880 (
                                New York
                            , 1897, 6-8. Through the Letters from Lloyd Lewis (
                                Boston
                            , 1950), the author became acquainted with John W. Emerson's
                            "Grant's Life in the West and his Mississippi Valley
                            Campaigns," that ran through volumes 6-11 (July, 1896-June, 1898), of the Midland Monthly (11 vols., 
                                Des Moines
                            , 
                                Iowa
                            , 1894-1899), see particularly IX (February, 1898), 115-119. In this rather
                            extended history it is claimed upon the personal recollections of Colonel Emerson and
                            General John M. Thayer (later governor of 
                                Nebraska
                             and 
                                United States
                             senator) that Grant devised the 
                                Tennessee
                             campaign while he was on duty at 
                                Ironton
                            , 
                                Missouri
                            , August 8- 19?, 1861, and that he wrote it out and sent it to Congressman
                            Washburne for delivery to the President. It is also said that he secured leave ostensibly to
                            visit his family in 
                                Galena
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            , before going to his next assignment at 
                                Jefferson City
                            , but really to get Washburne's influence to have him sent to Cairo,
                            and that he was sent there as the result of a direct order to 
                                Fremont
                             from Lincoln after the latter had read Grant's plan. There seems no
                            support whatever for the claim in the records, which do, however, show that Grant was in
                            Ironton on August 18, and in 
                                Jefferson City
                             on the twenty-first. Grant made no such claim in his Memoirs,
                            and it would have been completely out of character for him to prepare an unsolicited paper
                            for the President. Furthermore, it seems impossible to reconcile the story with the
                            statement about the origin of the 
                                Tennessee
                             campaign which Grant made in the letter he wrote Washburne on March 22, 1862,
                            which lacks reference to any previous letter to Washburne on the subject.
                  
                     74 "Plan of the 
                                Tennessee
                             Campaign," North American Review (248 vols.,
                                    
                        Boston, New York
                     , 1815-1940), CXLII (1886), 342-347.
               
                     say she witnessed the battle. But Mrs. Greenbie quoted her as
                    saying, "When I saw the dead and dying as they lay upon the field, and witnessed the sad
                    sight of the ambulance wagons bearing the wounded to the hospitals, my heart sank within
                    me." In another place her biographer said Anna was in the "midst of" and
                    in a third place that she was "present" at the engagement. As if she feared her
                    reader might be incredulous, Mrs. Greenbie explained that Belmont was "near 
                        St. Louis
                    ,"75 when in fact it is one hundred fifty miles away by
                    straight line, much farther by river. To anyone familiar with the facts about the battle of Belmont,
                    Miss Carroll's claim that she was present must be utterly fantastic. But would it not seem
                    that Mrs. Greenbie must have found the claim clearly set forth in some of Miss Carroll's
                    papers?
            One of the strangest points in the Carroll story is that she strongly condemned the capture of Fort
                    Donelson. Provoked because Dr. J. W. Draper gave credit to Halleck for the Tennessee
                    River operation, she wrote him in 1870, asserting bluntly that the movement had been
                    undertaken "in pursuance of a direct order of President Lincoln," and adding that
                    "it cannot be doubted but that, immediately upon the fall of Henry he [Halleck] should have
                    advanced his victorious column without turning aside to take Donelson or giving any thought to 
                        Columbus
                    ."78 Actually the very day that Henry fell three gunboats
                    started up the 
                        Tennessee
                    , going as far as Muscle Shoals, and bringing back on their return trip a large steamer
                    the Confederates were converting to a gunboat, together with all the timber and plating necessary to
                    finish the work. Military persons, however, have thought it was better for Grant to move twelve
                    miles and capture nearly fifteen thousand men than leave them in his rear to do mischief, or to
                    retreat to 
                        Nashville
                     to fight another day.
            What do Miss Carroll's protagonists make of her condemnation of the capture of Fort
                    Donelson? Mrs. Greenbie spoke of McClellan, Halleck, and Grant being "refulgent in
                    Anne's great idea," and described the gunboats as playing Santa Claus to the army
                    at Fort Donelson.77 The fact of course 
                  
                     75
                            My Dear Lady, 145, 153. On page 165, Mrs. Greenbie referred to
                            Anna's horror in remembering the wounded and dead on the battlefield of Belmont.
                  
                     76
                            House Miscellaneous Documents, 44 Cong., 1 Sess., no. 179, pp. 118-119.
                  
                     77
                            My Dear Lady, 179, 181.
               
                     was that the gunboat attack at that place was a dismal failure,
                    two of the boats being badly damaged and the other two soon withdrawing from action. Noble on his
                    part closed his documentary by saying that Miss Carroll's last day of life fell on the
                    anniversary of the fall of Fort Donelson, which "so triumphantly launched the great
                    campaign she had planned."78 To give her the credit, the day on which
                    the fort fell was distorted by two days!
            There is some very decisive evidence as to how much value Lincoln had for Miss Carroll, and how much
                    heed he paid to her proposals. Among her papers in the 
                        Maryland
                     Historical Society there is a copy of a long letter she wrote the President on April 1,
                    1862, urging him to veto the bill abolishing slavery in the 
                        District of Columbia
                    . Lincoln not only signed the bill, but issued a statement strongly commending it. In
                    July, when Halleck was brought to 
                        Washington
                     as General in Chief, Miss Carroll was still working on politics. In a letter to Lincoln
                    dated the fourteenth, she referred to reasons she had previously submitted for "immediately
                    antagonizing the abolition party, as essentially necessary to the salvation of the
                    government." The moment, she averred, was propitious for doing just that, on account of the
                    recent congressional passage of the Confiscation Bill. "By your veto the Republic may yet
                    be saved," she declared. Then she perorated: "Mr. President, just as sure as
                    effect follows cause, so sure it is that abolitionism and the Republic cannot both live. Better, far
                    better, then, that abolitionism in the land perish, than that the Republic be forever
                        lost."79 Lincoln folded the letter, wrote on the back,
                    "Anna Ella Carroll—July 14, 1862—discusses public affairs,"
                    and in spite of some objections signed the bill.
            Mid-August brought another letter that began: "I am just informed that at a public dinner
                    table, in a 
                        Washington
                     hotel, a gentleman, whose name I do not know, stated, that the President had said
                    ‘a lady demanded fifty thousand dollars, for writing a document,’ etc.,
                    meaning myself." She forebore discussing, said Miss Carroll, as she desired to forget,
                    "the very disagreeable manner" in which "it was represented"
                    that the remark had been made, but she said it was plain that Lincoln had not understood her in a
                    recent conference, as 
                  
                     78
                            Woman with a Sword, 408.
                  
                     79 Lincoln Papers, LXXXI, 17048-17061. The papers are in the Division
                            of Manuscripts, Library of Congress, 
                                Washington, D.C.
                            
                  
               
                     she had indicated at the time, though he had insisted that he
                    had. Miss Carroll recounted how "many of the ablest men in the Nation" had said
                    the government should extensively circulate the three tracts she had already written, and had
                    suggested that she could render good service by going to Europe to write in behalf of the 
                        United States
                    . Accordingly in the recent conference she had suggested that she go abroad with fifty
                    thousand dollars—a small sum, her friends had said— of public money, as a sort
                    of modest Office of War Information. Of course this would have left Lincoln to run the war with no
                    one to help but the generals, but according to Miss Carroll herself he objected for another reason.
                    Here are her words: "When you said to me, that my proposition was ‘the most
                    outrageous one, ever made to any government upon earth,’ I remarked that ‘the
                    difference between us, was in our view upon the value of intellectual labor, in the administration
                    of government.’"80
            
            In this long letter, in which Miss Carroll lectured Lincoln and sought to exhibit both her ability
                    and the service she had rendered, and explained how Napoleon had the habit of using smart people to
                    help him, there is no reference to her 
                        Tennessee
                     plan, nor a statement that can be taken as a veiled allusion to it. If in the interview
                    referred to Lincoln had before him the person he believed responsible for the great February
                    successes, would he have made the harsh remark Miss Carroll herself recorded? Ingratitude was
                    certainly not a trait of Lincoln's. Surely Miss Carroll knew that Lincoln had never seen
                    her paper.
            Miss Carroll's August letter also made it clear that Lincoln was in no way responsible for
                    the printing of her pamphlets, though she told him that as a lawyer he knew the government was bound
                    to make good on Scott's promises. Yet Miss Carroll's recent biographer stated
                    without any authority, that Lincoln personally ordered the printing of fifty thousand copies of the
                    reply to Breckinridge.81
            
            The unpleasant conference referred to had been secured though the use of a letter from Senator
                    Orville H. Browning of 
                        Illinois
                    , and the one remaining letter in the Lincoln Papers 
                  
                     80
                            Ibid., LXXXIII, 17654-17667.
                  
                     81
                            My Dear Lady, 118. Mrs. Greenbie asserted that Lincoln's order
                            officially marked the beginning of "the partnership of Mr. Lincoln and Anne
                            Carroll."
               
                     from Miss Carroll, written in October, sought another
                        interview.82 Though Lincoln was not a particularly difficult person to see,
                    the great, unrecognized member of his cabinet, evidently did not just knock on his door and then
                    walk in.
            The final question is this: Was the paper that Miss Carroll inserted in her memorials and petitions
                    to Congress actually the same as the one she gave to Thomas Scott? The original document is not in
                    the Lincoln Papers, and Scott left no papers. Until the paper is found—perhaps in
                    unpublished material in the war archives—all that one has is Miss Carroll's word
                    and that of Scott. Certainly her statement alone is not sufficient, and if Scott in 1872 seemed
                    completely confused about the trip he had made to the West, it is not likely that he recalled
                    reliably the contents of a paper he had read over ten years before.
            The point, however, is not worth insisting upon. But it is interesting and a little ironical that the
                    letter, only recently available, which proves how little influence Anna Carroll had on Lincoln,
                    either politically or militarily, should have been written by herself. When she later asserted so
                    strongly that Lincoln would have recognized her as the originator of the 
                        Tennessee
                     campaign, had he but lived, Anna Carroll probably forgot about the letter she had
                    written on August 14, 1862.
            
               
                  82 Lincoln Papers, XC, 19120.
            
         
         
         
            Reminiscences of Max Ehrmann
            
               Bertha K. Ehrmann*
            Although reared in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, Max Ehrmann did not meet Eugene V. Debs until the former became a student at 
                        Harvard
                     College. The impressions of Debs at 
                        Cambridge
                     and elsewhere from the pen of Max Ehrmann are of interest. "No man in America
                    has been more hated, and few have been so much loved as Eugene V. Debs. His name is known and his
                    face is familiar where the city of his birth was never heard of. His opinions are considered by men
                    in high places as the countersign of bloodshed, anarchy and riot, and by millions of others they are
                    regarded as the beacon light that is to lead humanity to a better life and a higher civilization.
                    Whatever may be said of his philosophy, one thing is certain, that he has won a place in American
                    history as one of its greatest orators; and in my opinion, there is not a man on the American
                    platform to-day who is his equal. His is a new and different kind of oratory. He resorts to no
                    tricks of rhetoric; no claptrap and stage effects, no empty pretense of deep emotion; but he stands
                    frankly before his audiences and opens the door-ways of his mind and heart that seem ever to be
                    overflowing with terrible invective or the sweet waters of human kindness.
            ‘The first time I heard Mr. Debs was more than ten years ago, when I was a student at 
                        Harvard
                    . He was booked to lecture at 
                        Prospect Union
                    , 
                        Cambridge
                    . This was shortly after the great 
                        Chicago
                     strike; and a good many 
                        Harvard
                     students and some instructors came out to see the ‘monster.’ Mr.
                    Debs was late, but the audience waited. When he came there was no applause. He began to speak, and
                    for more than two hours he held that audience as if riveted to the seats; and they who had come to
                    scorn, hovered around him for more than an hour, and went away his friends. It was more than half an
                    hour before I could get to the speaker's stand to shake hands with him.
            
               * Bertha K. Ehrmann, writer and educator, is a resident of 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana. The following article is from the book, Max Ehrmann: A
                            Poet's Life by Mrs. Max Ehrmann to be published in November. The dated items
                        are from the Journal of Max Ehrmann to be published later. Max Ehrmann, poet, playwright, and
                        philosopher, some of whose writings have appeared in the Indiana Magazine of
                            History, died September 9, 1945.
            
            
            The night before that he had spoken to one of the largest audiences that had ever crowded into
                    Faneuil Hall, 
                        Boston
                    . And so generously was his message received that, as Dr. John Clark Ridpath afterwards
                    told me, he feared the audience would ‘tear him to pieces trying to shake his
                    hand.’ Dr. Ridpath was at that time editor of The Arena, and believed
                    then that Mr. Debs was one of the most masterful orators that had ever been reared on American soil
                    and that he had then already a secure place in American history.
            ‘The next time I tried to hear Mr. Debs was in 
                        Denver
                    . The crowd was so great that I could not get within fifty feet of the door of the
                    largest public hall in that city, and it was then said that up to that time there had never been
                    such an audience in that hall.
            ‘I did, however, get to hear him the next Sunday, in the same city, where the day was
                    celebrated as Debs Day at Manhattan Beach Gardens—at that time a prominent summer garden
                    of 
                        Denver
                    . He spoke in the theatre, and after the speech an opera was given by the splendid stock
                    company playing there that summer. Everybody wore Debs badges and the day was generally observed in 
                        Denver
                     as given to the great Socialist.
            ‘In some ways our distinguished fellowtownsman has wandered a stranger in the city of his
                    birth. Here we have been the last to acknowledge his power and influence. We see him often,
                    recognize him as a quiet, respected citizen, possessing those domestic virtues that all men and
                    women admire; but the great Debs, the Debs who first arraigned the trust abuses in this country, who
                    broke the first ground for the harvest of modern popular reforms—that Debs we have never
                    yet recognized, nor that power of his—whatever one may think of his
                    doctrines—which is the type that has made the names of men undying."1
            
            During the years 1903 to 1917, Max Ehrmann and Eugene V. Debs saw much of each other. Always
                    interested in political and social questions, Max Ehrmann was naturally deeply interested in
                    Debs' crusade for socialism. They had many discussions on the social injustices of the
                    times. On the two occasions when Debs ran for president, Max Ehrmann 
                  
                     1 George Bicknell, "Eugene V. Debs at Home," Twentieth Century Magazine (7 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1909-1912), II (1910), 395-397.
               
                     voted for him, not because he wanted Debs for president but to
                    support the protest vote.
            Debs often related to Max Ehrmann many memories of his youth. Once when a small boy, his mother told
                    him he was too big to play marbles. In secret grief he buried them in the back yard and never would
                    tell where they were. He told of the sad day when, although feeling keenly the "need to
                    know more," he left school in the grades in order to help with the family income. Later
                    when he read in the paper of the graduation of his class from high school he secretly wept. He told
                    of his first job, washing grease from trucks at fifty cents a day, and how, on receiving his first
                    pay of four dollars for. eight days of work, he ran home and triumphantly gave it to his mother. He
                    related the hardships and accidents of railroad life and that his mother, worrying about him, sat up
                    every night until he came home. When he was nineteen years old, realizing again the need of more
                    education and after long saving, he bought himself an encyclopedia which he sat up nights to read
                    after his return from railroad work. Frequently in these talks Debs recited to Max Ehrmann long
                    passages from Schiller and Goethe in German. In later years again and again he paid tribute to his
                    wife, Katherine, saying, "She is a woman of magnificent mind and character." He
                    told how in all his years of turmoil she and his brother Theodore had understood him and were loyal
                    to him.
            In his Journal on March 10, 1933, Max Ehrmann noted that 
                  
                     
                        "Virginal personalities, that is, persons of intelligence unspoiled by
                                    ‘education’ such as Debs, are likely to have a naive attitude
                                    toward life; and if they have energy, they are more likely to be forward-looking
                                    than the so-called educated. Education is largely the acquisition of the accumulated
                                    prejudices of man's past——often a serious handicap
                                    for the influencing of man's future. I did not hear the word
                                    'socialism' at college until all the world outside was roaring it
                                    into the ears of the professors. It was Eugene Debs, not the professors, who first
                                    instructed the people of our nation in the principles of
                                socialism."
                     
                  
               
            
            When Debs was away on his lecture tours, he wrote many letters to the young author, always warm and
                    generous in praise and encouragement. From their correspondence over thirty letters from Debs
                    remain. In one of these he wrote: 
                  
                     
                        "Only the soul gifted with poetic insight, understanding and  delicate sensibilities could have written such a
                                    beautiful message."
                     
                  
               
            
            Moreover, Max Ehrmann also held Debs in high regard as is indicated by these lines. "All my
                    life I have lived not far from Mr. Debs' home …. Aside from knowing Mr. Debs as
                    a man who has theories about government, I know him as a neighbor. I think he is almost the
                    finest-grained man … I have ever known. In his home and in the neighborhood …
                    he is held in tender regard, … in spite of the fact that few of his neighbors agree with
                    his political doctrines. His wife is a beautiful, big-hearted woman; and the relations between them
                    are such as would put to shame many of the critics of his private life …. He is generous
                    almost to the point of folly …. He works too much without pay and gives away too much of
                    what he earns …. That one dark suit of clothes … he has worn from the
                    beginning of time. When this man closes his eyes in his last sleep something will go out of the
                    lives of his neighbors and friends here at home (regardless of party politics) that will leave a
                    hurt which time cannot soothe or new friendships assuage. If it is possible for men to love each
                    other, I should say that this man is loved—here, near his own fireside, where we know
                        him."2
            
            In 1918, Max Ehrmann wrote an article about Debs remarking that "had his audiences been the
                    scholars, he might have spoken in a quiet voice. But the scholars did not need him. They understood
                    the doctrines of socialism, but they did not believe in them; or, believing, were silent. In a
                    democracy the masses must be reached, for the masses make the government. And with great eloquence
                    he aroused from slumber the tired, mentally sluggish workers of this country.
            ‘In this process of rude awakening he has offended many men and time-honored institutions.
                    Socrates, who was charged with corrupting the youth of Athens, Luther, Voltaire, Tom Paine, Wendell
                    Phillips, Susan B. Anthony—to name a few at random—all were agitators, loved
                    and despised in their times. The God of Christianity was Himself an agitator—'I
                    came not to send peace, but a sword.' It is no pleasant task, and surely Debs has paid
                    dearly for troubling the waters of life. He has known poverty, slander, and prison.
            ‘With one-fourth the outlay of nervous energy he might have been a fat, comfortable,
                    limousine-riding, big-business 
                  
                     2 Max Ehrmann, "Debs Is Loved," Appeal
                                to Reason (1916).
               
                     man, ‘respected’; and with his gift for
                    words, he possibly might have been elected to a seat in the Senate. With eloquence of similar order
                    men have made fortunes …. Debs has remained poor. He has charged nothing for hundreds of
                    his lectures. Only when supplies have been low has he taken money, and then only to coal the ship
                    for a fresh voyage.
            Debs in his inner life is all love and peace. This statement may move some persons to laughter, for
                    most know Debs only on the lecture platform, from which, hour after hour, he hurls bitterness and
                    hatred. And yet the bitterness and hatred are hurled at injustice and cruelty, as he sees them, for
                    no reason except his great love for justice and gentleness. He is of the romantic temperament. He is
                    a seer of visions, a dreamer of dreams …. He sees something that the masses of mankind do
                    not see. He is a crier in the wilderness. He would show the way to the earthly paradise
                    …. His obsession is a better and gentler world.
            ‘But, awakening from his dream, and seeing the cruelty and injustice of reality, he
                    becomes the flaming orator, the destroyer of economic tyranny. And here in the very heart of his
                    great virtue is his vulnerable spot, the target of his detractors …. In his nature there
                    are those fiery-colored moments when, if he had the power, he would be tempted to pull down the
                    pillars of the universe …. And Deb's real achievement is that he has been the
                    traveling college professor of the masses, their lecturer on economics, their stirrer-up, their
                        provoker."3
            
            Upon two occasions I was a guest with Max Ehrmann at the Debs' home where some visiting
                    celebrity was being entertained. It was my introduction to socialism. The conversation was exciting
                    and brisk and Mrs. Debs an admirable hostess. Some years later when Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman,
                    well-known author, gave a lecture in 
                        Terre Haute
                     she was a guest at my home. As she was eager to meet Eugene Debs I asked him to call.
                    The conversation from their different points of view was lively, exhilarating and at times startling
                    for they could agree on little. Max Ehrmann had to interrupt frequently to calm their bristling
                    arguments and aroused spirits.
            But these years of friendship were broken by World 
                  
                     3 Max Ehrmann, "Eugene V. Debs," Pearson's
                            Mojrume (51 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1899-1925), XXXIX (1918), 30-31.
               
                     War I when Debs came out "a flaming
                    revolutionist." Max Ehrmann was shocked and there was a parting of the ways. The story is
                    related in the Journal on December 18, 1930. 
                  
                     
                        "I felt the pain of disillusion when the great-heart Debs, my friend,
                                    after preaching love and brotherhood for thirty years, suddenly attempted to provoke
                                    a revolution. Revolution! Here in a land having universal suffrage! I remember,
                                    also, how in my youth I tossed that word ‘revolution’ about.
                                    But I never advocated it. I feared it, as I still fear it."
                     
                  
               
            
            Other entries in the Journal about Debs were made from time to time. April 19, 1919. 
                  
                     
                        "I am thinking of Debs in prison in Moundsville, West 
                                        Virginia
                                    . This is his first week there. In his exaltation of spirit, even to the
                                    gates of the prison, he defied the whole 
                                        United States
                                    , saying, ‘I enter here a flaming revolutionist.’
                                    With what fondness I have heard him in private conversation speak of Lovejoy,
                                    Phillips, Garrison, and John Brown. Debs said, ‘These men were
                                    revolutionists in their time. I am a revolutionist in my time.’ He knows
                                    posterity will do him justice. He knows he will sit beside the great in history.
                                    Though one day he will be laid in the earth, he knows that his spirit will haunt
                                    men's thoughts long after. Here is a game in the playing of which there is
                                    excitement to charm only dare-devil spirits. But the prize, the spiritual elevation,
                                    is proportionate to the hazard. Here is spiritual mountain climbing.
                     
                  
               
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        ‘No man was ever less concerned about going to prison than Debs. He
                                    was warned by friends and by the government. Once I labored two hours with him. In
                                    his speeches he taunted the government, dared it and defied it. The play of his life
                                    is now at the climax. He awaits the denouement. He has listened to his inner voice
                                    knowing its promise of a noble and heroic tradition.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        ‘To me his conduct has a different aspect. For twenty years, by word
                                    of tongue or pen, I have been telling the people that Debs is not a revolutionist.
                                    How mistaken I was! What a mystery, how so charming a personality, so really lovable
                                    in his private life, would have us all at each other's throats, to
                                    accomplish what?—the brotherhood of man! Could anything be more
                                    incredible?"
                     
                  
               
                
            November 29, 1918. 
                  
                     
                        "A few steps from where I shall lie in my last sleep, Eugene Debs will
                                    rest when his course is run. I had hoped that future generations, visiting his
                                    grave,  might say, ‘Here lies the
                                    great agitator, the lover of men,’ and then taking a few steps might add,
                                    ‘and here lies the poet who never tired of praising him.’ But
                                    this can never be. He has opposed the war against 
                                        Germany
                                    . He also has advocated here a revolution by violence! Our ways have
                                    parted."
                     
                  
               
            
            December 4, 1932. 
                  
                     
                        "The philosophical period, the dawn period of historic movements, is
                                    frequently delightful to intellectuals at least. There is hope, enthusiasm,
                                    expansion of spirit. At last immemorial wrongs are to be righted. I remember the
                                    socialism under Eugene Debs,—the grandiose feeling that now at last
                                    mankind is to be freed of its ancient bondage. Theory may promise much as long as it
                                    is well-behaved, but practice must ‘deliver the goods.’ The
                                    communist, educational period in the 
                                        United States
                                     is now at the beginning. It will be well under way when it is
                                    fashionable to discuss pleasantly communist principles on the golf course and at
                                    dinner parties. Hopeful theory often warms the heart, which later is frozen by
                                    terrifying reality. In our democracy there should be no need of the reign of blood
                                    and iron. When the people gain more wisdom they may evolve some co-operative
                                    distribution under competent management. It is a matter of education. Meanwhile,
                                    will the possessors of enormous fortunes still keep the people dispossessed?
                                    … I am anxious."
                     
                  
               
            
            August 12, 1935. 
                  
                     
                        "Some form of socialism is coming and may be a step on the way to the
                                    dream of idealists. When collectivism goes too far it will swing back a little.
                                    Never again will laissez faire capitalism rule. Yet how futile is
                                    prophecy. The World War was fought for the principles of democracy and ended in
                                    dictatorships. What irony! And yet it pointed the way to economic democracy which is
                                    the next step. In all this Debs played a large part."
                     
                  
               
            
            Max Ehrmann's interest in Debs may have been due to the fact that they both lived in 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Nevertheless, Max Ehrmann mingled among the poets in Indiana. In the same years that
                    James Whitcomb Riley was giving readings from his poems, Max Ehrmann was also starting readings from
                    his own poems. When Riley came to 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1903 to speak at the Grand Opera House, Max Ehrmann introduced him. This led to an
                    acquaintance with Riley that continued through the years. Max Ehrmann visited him frequently in his
                    home in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Once, after an evening with Riley, he wrote at one sitting the following charming
                    sonnet to the Hoosier Poet.
            
            To a Lyric Poet
            
                    Tell me—who gave to you the key of hearts That childhood holds within its budding
                        breast, And aged, care-worn men, and all the rest Of that strange line of wanderers
                        that darts Now to and fro on Life's wide way, and starts With tears and
                        lingering smiles and often blessed By simple words of yours that bring them rest When
                        daylight from the falling evening parts? Who taught you all the music of the Spring,
                        The tangles of the meadows bending grass, The perfumes of the blooming orchard pass,
                        The sounds, the sighs, and smiles the seasons bring, The moon-lit evening joys of lad and
                        lass— Tell me—who was it taught you how to sing?
                
            Several entries about Riley also appear in Max Ehrmann's Journal. June 17, 1917. 
                  
                     
                        "Riley was a genial, unpretentious man. He bore his fame modestly and
                                    was a lovable character. One evening at his home, pointing to a row of his books, he
                                    said to me: ‘There's not a reproach in any of them.’
                                    Hence perhaps, his lack of any criticism of entrenched power; hence also it was that
                                    I, a ‘harmless’ youth and not Debs, his life-long friend, was
                                    asked to introduce him when he read his poems in 
                                        Terre Haute
                                    . Riley had gentleness and a keen eye for the personal joys and sorrows
                                    of the plain people. He did not see the social causes of those personal sorrows. He
                                    was a poet of the people. He wrote of such things as touched intimately the heart of
                                    mankind. He brought solace and laughter to thousands and so his life made for
                                    amelioration. He sang of a culture that already has passed away and now are only
                                    lovely memories in an age of machines and haste."
                     
                  
               
            
            July 21, 1921. 
                        Brown County
                    , Indiana. 
                  
                     
                        "This afternoon on horseback I crept for miles over the narrow paths to
                                    the home of Marcus Dickey, biographer of James Whitcomb Riley. On the porch of this
                                    house that overlooks the world, without saying a word, I held out my hand; he took
                                    it and after a moment's reflection pronounced my name. We had met but once,
                                    eighteen years before, when I introduced Riley to the audience in my native city. We
                                    talked of olden times and of life and art and the future of poetic forms and of
                                    Riley and his place in our letters. The infinite sky, the far-reaching horizon, and
                                    the tender green of the lovely world stretching out at our feet lifted me up once
                                    more. I found, too, ‘A Prayer’ hanging in the house. Mr.
                                    Dickey said: ‘You have been with us all the
                                time.’"
                     
                  
               
            
            
            Novelist as well as the poet made an imprint upon Max Ehrmann. Through the crowded years he had been
                    aware of the growing importance of Theodore Dreiser, who had lived in 
                        Terre Haute
                    . There was some correspondence between them on various matters, and throughout the
                    Journal there are several criticisms and appreciations of this famous writer.
            May 1, 1932. 
                  
                     
                        "I often think of Dreiser persisting in an ideal of his art through
                                    thirty years of poverty, ‘weather-beaten and solitary’ as
                                    Mencken described. A flood of gold and the camera came to him at last. Then he did a
                                    bold thing; he declared for communism in a country hating it."
                     
                  
               
            
            June 6,1932. 
                  
                     
                        "Dreiser's fifty years of abject poverty were relieved finally
                                    by An American Tragedy. Unlike Stevenson he had no kind father to
                                    send him twelve hundred dollars a year at critical moments. Dreiser has neither
                                    charm of style nor devotion to persons, though he is capable of devotion to a cause
                                    as in Tragic America. His great virtue—gaunt,
                                    elephantine virtue! is devotion to truth about external facts. The facts of the
                                    inner life: the whole background of aspirations, exaltations, experience and
                                    scholarship unified into a knowing, reposeful personality—to these he is
                                    a stranger. By appointment, we spent a few days together in 
                                        Washington
                                    , where he gave me some material on his brother Paul, of whose life I
                                    afterward wrote a sketch. He seemed ill, parched, neurotic, by turns timid and
                                    arrogant—a pitiable figure. At that time he was writing An
                                        American Tragedy, and was still living in poverty. Dreiser has done a great
                                    work; and through years of lunch counters and alley living rooms, he has stood
                                    steadfastly by it …. Enough! Let me be thankful to this author for what
                                    he does and not condemn him for what he does not …. He rendered service
                                    in freeing the main current of our literature from a silly romanticism and prudery.
                                    This particular trail often before has been taken in Europe; but he with Upton
                                    Sinclair and Sinclair Lewis blazed it here in the 
                                        United States
                                    . His special fault is lack of taste. Debs, a greater iconoclast, had
                                    delicate taste and ingratiating manners."
                     
                  
               
            
            The Journal of Max Ehrmann is full of memories of these years. He was still giving readings through
                    the Midwest under the Central Lyceum Bureau of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Among them he liked to remember "Authors Week" in 
                        St. Louis
                     where he gave a talk and was paid a tribute for his  poetry by William Marion Reedy. Said the 
                        St. Louis
                    
                    Post-Dispatch: "Mr. Ehrmann was greeted by a brilliant audience which
                    heard his scholarly exposition of literary trends with pleasure and interest."
            At a banquet of Indiana librarians he was the speaker having for his subject "The Malady of
                    Romanticism," a "disease in art which refuses to recognize the laws of
                    life." He pleaded for a literary salon that might offset the "Best
                    Sellers" and cultivate some standards of taste. He noted the latter event in his Journal on
                    November 12, 1920. 
                  
                     
                        "Last evening I spoke at the banquet of the Indiana librarians in the
                                    Severin Hotel. The music, the lights, the large dining-room full of cheerful faces
                                    filled me with something of the old thrill. I spoke on the ‘Malady of
                                    Romanticism’ and made a popular plea for the doctrine of ‘The
                                    New Laocoon’ commingled with some of my own admixture theory. I spoke
                                    well and there was much applause."
                     
                  
               
            
            Max Ehrmann also wrote a number of plays among which was "The Bank Robbery," a
                    short, humorous take-off on labor conditions. "Three comedies and a serious play were
                    included in a bill of four one-act plays by Indiana authors presented by the Little Theater before a
                    large and enthusiastic audience at the Masonic Temple last night. ‘The Bank
                    Robbery,’ by Max Ehrman[n], poked fun at strikers, strikebreakers, capital, labor, and
                    policemen …. Robert E. Tracy, president of the Little Theater, introduced the authors
                    … and they talked briefly."4
            
            An entry in Max Ehrmann's Journal on March 27, 1920, made the following comment about the
                    play. 
                  
                     
                        "Last night in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     I saw produced my play, ‘The Bank Robbery,’ a
                                    farce with some moral hits upon industrial conditions. In response to applause I
                                    made a few remarks. I have been pondering it. An epilogue of God to the Human Drama
                                    is what the world everywhere and always has craved, hoped and prayed for
                                    …. Since we have so long vainly tried to interpret the play, surely the
                                    gods owe us some answer."
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
                  4
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, News, March 27, 1920. See also 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Star, March 27, 1920.
            
         
         
         
            The Civilian Public Service Camp Program in Indiana
            
               Charles B. Hirsch*
            The civilian public service program came as an outgrowth of the Selective Service Act of 1940. It
                    provided a means of safeguarding the freedom of conscience and religion of the individual, in so far
                    as military service was concerned. By means of this program individuals classified as conscientious
                    objectors were assigned to work of national importance. The program itself showed the influence of
                    selective service officials, military officials, other government agencies, and the sponsoring
                    churches. Selective service was responsible for the early processing of the conscientious objector
                    and supervised the transfer of assignees to other special projects or camps. It also operated the
                    special camps sponsored by the federal government. The chief function of the military authorities
                    entailed the maintenance of certain standards as to buildings and sanitation in the camps. Officials
                    of the soil conservation service were responsible for carrying out the special work projects of each
                    camp. They provided the technical guidance and necessary equipment. The sponsoring churches
                    administered the camps, and became financially responsible for their maintenance. Their camp
                    administrators looked after the personal needs of the assignees, kept, the records, and prepared the
                    various work rosters.
            This alternate program served a twofold purpose by offering the conscientious objectors an
                    opportunity to serve in a capacity which would not infringe upon their personal convictions, and
                    giving the government an opportunity to get some much needed work done at a minimum cost. What the
                    gun and sword were to the soldier, the pick and shovel were to the conscientious objector. Instead
                    of the sound of a bugle, a bell was used to awaken the assignee to the new day's task.
            Before the selective service system granted permission for the opening of a CPS camp, certain
                    requirements or requisites were necessary. After a proposed camp site had met 
                  * Charles B. Hirsch, a veteran of World War II, is an instructor in history at
                            Teachers College of 
                        Connecticut,
                                    New Britain, Connecticut
                     . This is the concluding article of a series of
                            three published continuously since March, 1950. It is the revision of a master's
                            thesis in the department of history at Indiana University, 1949, under the direction of Lynn
                            W. Turner.
               
                     the approval and standards of the army for housing and
                    sanitation, had shown that there was enough work "of national importance"
                    available, and had proven acceptable to the surrounding communities, the project soon became a
                    reality. Army engineers usually checked the camp site to determine whether or not it met the army
                    standards. As far as work "of national importance" was concerned, the soil
                    conservation service determined this by its field surveys. The most common type of work especially
                    in the camps in Indiana, dealt with the problem of soil erosion.1
            
            Less than five hundred of the eight hundred and fifty conscientious objectors in this state were
                    stationed in Hoosier CPS camps.2 They came chiefly from the northern and central
                    areas of Indiana, where the historic peace churches were well represented. Specific communities such
                    as, 
                  Goshen, Elkhart
               , 
                        North Manchester
                    , and 
                        Richmond
                     had the greatest number of conscientious objectors.3 Other
                    denominations and communities also contributed to Indiana's share of this group.
            Under the direction of the Brethren Service Committee, the first CPS camp in Indiana was located at
                    Lagro and known as CPS No. 6. It was the second camp to be organized in the 
                        United States
                    .4 Twenty-six of its first hundred assignees were
                    from Indiana. The facilities of this camp were large enough to accommodate over two hundred men.
                    This number was not reached since it would have been a difficult task to find sufficient
                    conservation work to keep such a group of men busy.5 CPS No. 6 lasted from May,
                    1941, to December 26, 1943. Shortly after Lagro CPS No. 6 was established by the Brethren, other
                    peace churches followed suit. The Friends ventured forth with a camp at 
                        Richmond
                     and another at Merom. The former was to be composed entirely of young men belonging to
                    the Friends' Meeting in eastern Indiana, 
                  
                     1 Shirley E. Greene, the Director of Merom Institute, Merom, Indiana,
                            to Max P. Allen of the Indiana War History Commission, August 17, 1945; and a typewritten
                            history by W. Earl Griffin, Civilian Public Service Camp No. 6, Lagro, Indiana, 19. Most of
                            the sources mentioned in this article are located in the archives of the Indiana War History
                            Commission, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, April 8, 1943.
                  
                     3 Carl S. Miller of the National Service Board of Religious Objectors
                            (NSBRO), 
                                Washington
                             D. C, to John D. Barnhart of the Indiana War History Commission, May 15, 1945.
                  
                     4 The first camp, CPS No. 3, was established by the Friends at 
                                Patapsco
                            , 
                                Maryland
                            .
                  
                     5
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, June 24, 1941.
               
                     whereas the latter would be open to men of all denominations.
                    As there were no facilities at 
                        Richmond
                     to provide for such a camp, it was necessary to raise funds for the building of
                    barracks and other necessary buildings. These funds were obtained from Friends in the Middle West
                    including Isaac E. Woodward, president of the Acme-Evans Milling Company in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who made a personal contribution of five thousand dollars to the project plus twenty
                    acres of land and an old homestead. The camp was canceled after its completion by the selective
                    service system, whose officials reasoned that the camp at Merom would be sufficient.6 It lasted about ten months longer than the unit at 
                        Richmond
                    .
            Two Indiana camps, Bluffton and Medaryville, were sponsored by the Mennonites. Bluffton, CPS No. 13,
                    at the time of its opening the largest camp in the 
                        United States
                    , dated from June 12, 1941, to April, 1942. Eighty-three assignees arrived on June 23,
                    and within a month the number totaled one hundred and thirty-six.7 Its closing
                    was merely a transfer of personnel to CPS No. 28 at Medaryville. The purpose of this was the greater
                    importance of the work at CPS No. 28, which also outlasted all the other camps in Indiana, running
                    from April, 1942, to April, 1946.8 Thus, the chief CPS camps in Indiana were
                    Merom CPS No. 14, Lagro CPS No. 6, Bluffton CPS No. 13, and Medaryville CPS No. 28.
            Civilian conservation corps camps which had been abandoned because of the shortage of labor served as
                    a standard for the CPS camps. Units at Bluffton, Lagro, and Medaryville were actually located on
                    former CCC camp sites. The one exception was Merom CPS No. 14, which was located on the campus of a
                    former Congregational-Christian college, now known as the Merom Institute. This institution served
                    as a training school for church pastors and lay leaders. It emphasized the importance of Christian
                    rural life and advocated strong, rural churches. Aside from this background, there were other
                    features which distinguished Merom CPS No. 14 
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., March 25, 1941, and June 1, 1941. See also Thomas E. Jones,
                            President of Earlham College, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, January 17, 1949, to the writer, and the 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana News, March 25, 1941.
                  
                     7 Bluffton, Indiana, Peace Sentinel, July 25, 1941.
                            These camp publications were issued irregularly, sometimes weekly and other times monthly.
                  
                     8 Medaryville, Indiana, 
                        
                                    Jasper
                                –
                                    Pulaski
                                 Peace Sentinel, February, 1944; Melvin Gingerich, Service
                                for Peace (
                                Akron
                            , 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , 1949), 126-128.
               
                     from other Hoosier CPS camps. The latter were located in open
                    farm land or forest areas, whereas the former was established within the boundaries of Merom, a town
                    of 450 people. While the former CCC camps were provided with barracks and other necessary
                    facilities, the camp at Merom required repair work and the building of additional dormitories or
                    barracks. This work was done by volunteers who arrived at the camp before its official opening.9
            
            The attitudes of the neighboring communities toward the establishment of these camps in their
                    vicinities were usually neutral or favorable, except in the case of the camps sponsored by the
                    Friends. When the Friends announced their plans for opening CPS camps at Merom and Richmond,
                    opposition was voiced immediately. The Harry Ray Post of the American Legion at 
                        Richmond
                     adopted with the unanimous support of the group a motion opposing the creation of the
                    proposed camp in its vicinity. In spite of this opposition, the Friends went on with their plans for
                    a camp at 
                        Richmond
                     until selective service orders put an end to their project.10
            
            At the opening of their camp at Merom, the Friends experienced even more hostile opposition. About
                    four months before its organization, rumors of the proposed camp reached the communities of Merom
                    and Sullivan, The 
                        Sullivan County
                     Community Committee immediately appointed a group to investigate the matter. In Merom a
                    meeting of the Merom Institute Committee, which usually functioned as a liaison between the
                    community of Merom and Merom Institute, was called for the purpose of hearing Claude Shotts, the
                    potential director of the camp, discuss the proposed project. Shotts had already met representatives
                    of the soil conservation service and farm leaders of 
                        Sullivan County
                     to determine the needs of a soil conservation project in 
                        Sullivan County
                    .11 His purpose now was to present the soil needs of the county and
                    explain how the assignees of the CPS camp would fit into the picture. 
                  
                     9 A typewritten history by Donald Woodward, A Study of Civilian Public
                            Service Camp #14, Merom, Indiana, May, 1941-May, 1942, pp. 3-4. See also Lela W. Mills of
                            the Friends Peace and Service Committee, 
                                Indianapolis
                             to the writer, January 18, 1949.
                  
                     10
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, May 14, 1941. Just recently this Post voted
                            to investigate what it thought were "un-American activities" at Earlham
                            College. The Post soon resolved that "there was nothing that required action by the
                            American Legion." 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, Palladium-Item, May 17, 1950.
                  
                     11
                            
                                Greene
                             to Allen, August 17, 1945.
               
                     After an open discussion of the subject, the community
                    representatives (who included community leaders other than committee members) moved, "That
                    we approve the proposed project of a Civilian Public Service Camp in Merom, 
                        Sullivan County
                    , and request the authorities responsible for this project to create such a camp
                        here."12 The 
                        Sullivan County
                     Community Committee after hearing the report of their chairman, who had been present at
                    the meeting in Merom, decided that the matter discussed did not fall within their range of activity.
            While the meeting at Merom resulted in a favorable attitude toward the establishment of a CPS camp,
                    another meeting held on the same night in Sullivan produced different results. The 
                        Sullivan County
                     American Legion Council, in session in Sullivan, discussed the proposed project. After
                    questioning its potential effects on W.P.A. and other labor activities, this group, without
                    attempting to seek further information, declared itself in opposition to the opening of such a camp
                    at Merom,13 The forces of the opposition soon made themselves felt.
            After receiving permission from Merom Institute to go ahead with the project, the camp sponsors
                    waited patiently for approval from 
                        Washington
                    . It was not until May 19, that word was received telling why the approval from 
                        Washington
                     was not forthcoming. The reason behind the delay was an action of the Sullivan American
                    Legion, which had been responsible for the sending of a petition to selective service headquarters
                    opposing the Merom camp. Friends of the project upon learning of this, immediately contacted the
                    Indiana director of selective service and the governor. Both these officials denied that they knew
                    anything of this opposition. A crisis had been reached. Forces favoring the camp rallied to get
                    additional support for the project. Merom Legionnaires attended a meeting in which Claude Shotts was
                    heard. An unofficial vote showed that over eighty-three per cent of those present were favorable to
                    the project. At another meeting of farm leaders, the vote was a unanimous approval of the camp. Soon
                    various groups and individuals were sending letters and telegrams to 
                        Washington
                     urging approval of the camp. These groups included the Merom Town Board, the Merom
                    Congregational-Christian Church, the Gill 
                  
                            12
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     13
                            Ibid.; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, April 10, 1941.
               
                     Township Farm Bureau, and eight county farm organizations. A
                    petition, which included more names than the one circulated by the opposition, was also sent to 
                        Washington
                    .
            This barrage of local sentiment caused the selective service headquarters to send Colonel Lewis
                    Kosch, in charge of camp operations, to visit Merom and make a firsthand study of the situation.
                    Arriving at Merom Institute on June 4, he spent most of his time with Shotts and Dr. Thomas E. Jones
                    of the American Friends Service Committee, and meeting with the various groups and organizations of
                    the county. These groups included those who were in opposition to the project as well as those who
                    favored it.14
            
            J. C. Greenberg, American Legion Commander of 
                        Sullivan County
                    , said that the main objection to the camp was that "its members might engage
                    in work that could be given to unemployed Sullivan county men."15 He
                    also mentioned the fact that "Sullivan county was one of the most
                    ‘unsettled’ areas in the state." If a camp were established it might
                    lead to another disorder, as had occurred previously when a clash between union and nonunion miners
                    resulted in the use of martial law. "This county," Mayor John Ace Robinson added,
                    "is just now recovering from the effects of the martial law black eye, so don't
                    bring something like this (the objectors' group) here to start trouble all over
                        again."16
            
            Local group leaders who expressed approbation for the project, emphasized the benefits which would be
                    derived from such a camp. They mentioned the thirty-four thousand dollars which would be spent
                    annually in the county for operating costs besides the work that would be done on the farms which
                    would otherwise be left undone. This work would amount to sixty thousand dollars per year. The final
                    meeting of Colonel Kosch's visit was held at Merom Institute. Over one hundred persons,
                    representing almost every farm organization in 
                        Sullivan County
                    , met to voice their approval of the proposed project. When Kosch questioned the
                    possibility of violent opposition to the camp, one Merom resident replied "Would we be
                    inviting this camp into the community where our families live, if we expected its coming to cause
                    violent agitation?"17
                    
                  
                     14 Woodward, A Study of Civilian Public Service Camp #14, p. 2.
                  
                     15
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, June 6, 1941.
                  
                            16
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     17
                            
                                Greene
                             to Allen, August 17, 1945.
               
                     A few days later, official consent was received from 
                        Washington
                     for the organization of CPS Camp No. 14 at Merom. It should be noted that the reason
                    for this tolerant attitude among these 
                        Sullivan County
                     groups was not so much the toleration of freedom of conscience as the promise of work
                    on the farms, which were in need of soil conservation projects, and the financial profit which the
                    local merchants and farmers would receive in return for their sale of goods and services to the
                        camp.18
            
            The administration of the camps which were supported financially by the churches followed a
                    stereotyped pattern. Camp officials included a director, a matron, a business manager, an
                    educational director, and a camp buyer. These persons were ordinarily nonassignees and members of
                    the sponsoring denominations. Later, however, many of these positions including that of the director
                    were invariably turned over to the assignees. The techniques of the directors in supervising these
                    Hoosier camps varied from the use of dictatorial tactics to democratic procedures. Some of the units
                    actually formed governments in which the assignees had a voice in the affairs of the camp.19
            
            The differences of experience in education, marital status, and occupation, as well as the variety of
                    backgrounds and beliefs were responsible for the heterogeneous groups of assignees that were found
                    in these work projects. Assignees who refused to report to camp were handled by federal authorities
                    and were charged with lawbreaking and delinquency. The consequence was usually a jail sentence.20 One Bulgarian refugee who had served some time in the Bulgarian Army was
                    assigned to Camp Lagro. His stay here was cut short when government officials discovered his true
                    status. It was not too long before he was reclassified as an enemy alien. Another case which added
                    some color to the life at Camp Lagro was that of a Chicagoan who appeared at the camp in an
                    inebriated condition. He made no claim of having any conscientious scruples and later when a
                    newspaper reporter 
                  
                     18 Woodward, A Study of Civilian Public Service Camp #14, p. 13.
                  
                     19 Griffin, Civilian Public Service Camp No. 6, Lagro, 6-9, 29;
                            Woodward, A Study of Civilian Public Service Camp #14, p. 8. Two projects having camp
                            governments were Lagro and Merom.
                  
                     20
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, June 27, 1941; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, News, February 3, 1942.
               
                     investigated the case, it was brought to light that the man had
                    obtained a conscientious objector classification by bribing a member of a 
                        Chicago
                     draft board.21 The first assignee to leave a CPS camp because he
                    could not conscientiously submit to conscription even of nonmilitary service was Alex Stach of Merom
                    CPS No. 28. He reported to FBI authorities and was taken into custody. When he appeared at court,
                    the judge, without giving him an opportunity to explain his action, sentenced him to five years in a
                        penitentiary.22
            
            These differences among the assignees were often responsible for the "rough
                    sailing" experienced by some of the camp administrators. Bluffton CPS No. 13 was the most
                    homogeneous of all the Indiana camps. Ninety-five per cent of the assignees of CPS No. 13 were of
                    the Mennonite group. This meant that the task of forming group solidarity was not only easier, but
                    it was possible for camp officials to prepare a program, which would be accepted by the great
                        majority.23 When this camp was moved to Medaryville, the picture changed.
                    CPS No. 28 had a greater number of non-Mennon–ites than any other Mennonite camp. The
                    breach between Mennonites and non-Mennonites led to disputes over the administration of the camp and
                    its work program. Camps sponsored by the Friends usually had more problems of personal adjustment,
                    not only because of the large number of non-Quakers, but because of the individualistic nature of
                    the Friends' philosophy. One thing upon which the majority of these assignees did agree,
                    divergent as they were in opinions and ideas, was the question of government camps.2* In answering a questionnaire at Merom eighty per cent of these assignees,
                    contributors of thirty-five dollars per month for the privilege of being in camp (in many cases,
                    families or churches paid this amount), and who received about two dollars and fifty cents per month
                    as spending money,25 voted 
                  
                     21 Griffin, Civilian Public Service Camp No. 6, Lagro, 2, 17.
                  
                     22 Merom, Indiana, Plowshare, April, 1942.
                  
                     23 Bluffton, Indiana, Peace Sentinel, December,
                            1941.
                  
                     24 William H. Chamberlin, "American
                            C.O.'s," Survey Graphic (
                                New York
                            , 1921), XXXII (1943), 438; Gingerich, Service for Peace,
                            129-130.
                  
                     25 For two years the assignees in Mennonite camps received no monthly
                            allowance. In December, 1944, the MC voted a five-dollar–monthly allowance for
                            each assignee regardless of church affiliation. Medaryville, Indiana, 
                        
                                    Jasper
                                –
                                    Pulaski
                                 Peace Sentinel, January, 1944.
               
                     "no" to the question which asked if they
                    would prefer to serve in a government operated CPS camp.26
            
            The main work of the CPS camps in Indiana was under the direct supervision of the soil conservation
                    service of the department of agriculture. In addition to supervision, the government provided tools
                    and equipment to be used on the projects.27 Co-operation of government
                    supervisors, or camp superintendents as they were called, was usually good. Some were less tolerant
                    than others, but they co-operated to the extent that was necessary in order to get the work done on
                    their projects. The working week of the assignee at first was five eight-hour days. Saturdays were
                    used to make up any time lost during the week due to inclement weather. Shortly thereafter, the work
                    week was extended to half a day on Saturday and time lost because of bad weather was not made up. In
                    1943, a six-day work week went into effect.28
            
            As has been mentioned, the major work of the camps was of a soil conservation nature. In most
                    instances, labor was done on land belonging to farmers. It included fence construction, gully
                    control work, terracing, tree planting, and ditching. The cost to the farmer, who had contracted for
                    this service, was merely the expense of the materials used. Another important project was that done
                    by the Lagro unit in the forestry service, especially at the Salamonie River
                    and Francis Slocum State forests. Similar duties were performed in the vicinity of the other camps.
                    This work involved the cleaning of picnic areas, cutting of wood, painting and creo-soting of all
                    state buildings, maintaining roads and trails in the forests, improving the forest reserve, the
                    planting of trees, breeding of thousands of pheasants, and a variety of other tasks that could be
                    mentioned under this category. A new record in tree planting was achieved at Medaryville when
                    twenty-eight assignees planted over eighty-three thousand trees in one day, as compared with the CCC
                    record of thirty thousand trees planted by thirty-five men.29 Over fifty-five
                    thousand trees were shipped to various parts of Indiana where they were planted in areas denuded by
                    strip mining. Fire 
                  
                     26 Merom, Indiana, Plowshare, May, 1942.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, February 8, 1941; Griffin, Civilian Public
                            Service Camp No. 6, p. 18.
                  
                     28 Griffin, Civilian Public Service Camp No. 6, pp. 4, 18-19.
                  
                     29 Leslie Eisan, Pathways of Peace (
                                Elgin
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            , 1948), 89; Bluffton, Indiana, Peace Sentinel, March 13 and
                            April 24, 1942.
               
                     prevention and control was another important function of those
                    engaged in forestry service. The great amount of service which Indiana received at the hands of the
                    conscientious objectors is significant in that the assignees received no accident compensation, no
                    dependency benefits, and none of the benefits granted to servicemen in the G.I. Bill of Rights. In
                    Indiana 185,355 freeman work days, not including overhead, were contributed by conscientious
                    objectors to the projects. This figure is only up to December 31, 1944. The man work days at
                    Medaryville alone up to this same time totaled 104,911 on local projects.30
            
            The educational functions provided by the CPS camps were numerous. They varied from informal class
                    instruction to highly specialized courses. It was the duty of the educational director to
                    co-ordinate the activities of the assignees. Some of the camps were fortunate in having educational
                    directors who had college degrees and experience in the field of teaching and education.31 The problem that faced the educational directors was the planning of a
                    program that would offer something for those with a minimum of education as well as for those on a
                    college level. Except for two, all the assignees at Merom had a high school education. Sixty per
                    cent of them had experienced some college training.32 This high percentage did
                    not exist in the Mennonite camps. The reason being that the Mennonites were mostly farmers who
                    preferred a strong work program.33 In order to create an educational interest
                    among the assignees, it was necessary to provide a varied curriculum.
            Early courses of study included first aid, religion, soil conservation, and forestry. Later, current
                    events and such vocational courses as farm bookkeeping, welding, and auto mechanics were added to
                    the curriculum. The instructors were camp officials, soil conservation service employees, and
                    assignees themselves. Classes usually met in the evenings, 
                  
                     30 Miller to Barnhart, May 15, 1945.
                  
                     31 Bluffton, Indiana, Peace Sentinel, September 19,
                            1941; Griffin, Civilian Public Service Camp No. 6, Lagro, 8.
                  
                     32 Woodward, A Study of Civilian Public Service Camp #14, p. 5.
                  
                     33 Interview with Roland Bartel, a former CPS camp director, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, February 26, 1949. Gingerich, in Service for Peace,
                            302, stated that the average schooling in Mennonite camps was about ten and one-half
                        years.
               
                     as the assignees were not permitted to take off any time from
                    work for these activities.34
            
            The Lagro 
                        China
                     Unit was one of the first specialized groups to be formed. It was organized in 1942 and
                    consisted of volunteers who expected to be trained for relief and rehabilitation duty in 
                        China
                    . Selective service headquarters had permitted members of this group to be excused from
                    regular camp obligations, enabling the assignees to devote all their time to relief training. This
                    training consisted of the Chinese language, first aid, and elementary medical procedure. Medical and
                    surgical supplies and drugs were purchased and packed for the unit. As the training period drew to a
                    close, transportation arrangements were made for the expected two years of ambulance and emergency
                    relief work in 
                        China
                    . There was discouraging news, however, when camp officials learned that the state
                    department, without official reason, had refused to grant passports to the conscientious objectors.
                    Despite this setback, the unit continued its program and after engaging in some emergency relief
                    work at the tornado stricken town of 
                        Goshen
                    , it was disbanded. Several members eventually took part in a rehabilitation program in 
                        Puerto Rico
                    .35 A year later, an advance unit of relief workers to 
                        China
                     managed to get as far as 
                        South Africa
                    , but this time an Act of Congress resulted in the group's immediate return to
                    the 
                        United States
                    .36 Not much imagination is needed to realize how these boys must
                    have felt and the "let down" which followed this disappointment.
            Another training unit which suffered at the hands of officials was the dairy testing group at Lagro.
                    The class, consisting of eight assignees, was under the guidance of the extension dairyman of Purdue
                    University. In this case, selective service headquarters would not grant permission for these men to
                    be excused from their daily obligations. This meant that the assignees would have to undertake the
                    training on their own time. In order to accomplish this, the men started their day's work
                    at four-o'clock in the morning and 
                  
                     34 Griffin, Civilian Public Service Camp No. 6, Lagro, 10; Lagro,
                            Indiana, Salamonie Peace Pipe, July 25, 1941.
                  
                     35 Griffin, Civilian Public Service Camp No. 6, Lagro, 11. See also
                            Lagro, Indiana, Salamonie Peace Pipe, August, 1942.
                  
                     36
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, LVII, 350. See also Guy F. Hershberger, War, Peace, and Nonresistance (
                                Scottdale
                            , 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , 1944), 183-186.
               
                     completed their eight hours at noon. The remaining time was
                    spent in class and laboratory. All books, literature, and record sheets were furnished by Purdue
                    University. This assistance was withdrawn when it was learned that approval could not be obtained
                    from state authorities for permitting CPS dairy testers to work in Indiana. A few of the assignees
                    did manage to make use of their training as dairy testers in other states.37
            
            The biggest enterprise of the peace churches in the educational field was a special training program
                    within their colleges. On August 7, 1942, a Conference of Mennonites and Affiliated College
                    Administrators, at 
                        Winona
                     Lake, Indiana, proposed a program for prospective workers in relief and reconstruction
                    activities. It was expected that conscientious objectors, who are willing to volunteer for such
                    service, would take part in the program. The main obstacle to be hurdled was to obtain consent from
                    the selective service system. This was done through representatives of the National Service Board of
                    Religious Objectors (NSBRO), who presented the idea to the government officials. On April 21, 1943,
                    the director of selective service, Major General Lewis B. Hershey, issued an order establishing CPS
                    camp No. 101. Located at 
                        Philadelphia
                    , this camp was to serve as headquarters for the new project.38 Each
                    of the historic peace churches was permitted to establish special educational programs in four of
                    its colleges. In Indiana, these were organized by the Friends at Earlham College, by the Mennonites
                    at 
                        Goshen
                     College, and by the Church of the Brethren at 
                        Manchester
                     College. Earlham enrolled seventeen in its program. Eight others who had been selected
                    to attend were still in their camps when Congress put an end to the program. They were, therefore,
                    prohibited from participating. 
                        Manchester
                     had seventy-four CPS assignees, and the number at 
                        Goshen
                     was about sixty-five. To this last group were added fifteen women volunteers.39
            
            
               
                  37 Griffin, Civilian Public Service Camp No. 6, Lagro, 11-12. See also Lagro, Indiana Camp No. 6, Civilian Public Service, Brethren Service
                        Committee, a pamphlet reprinted from the Gospel Messenger of June 5 and
                        29, 1943.
               
                  38
                        Federal Register, VIII (April 27, 1943), 5444-5445; Hershberger, War, Peace, and Nonresistance, 183-184, 384-385.
               
                  39
                        Ibid., 185; Eisan, Pathways of Peace, 317-321. See also the 
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana, Earlhamite, July, 1943; and the 
                            Goshen
                        , Indiana, 
                     
                                Goshen
                             College Record, January 8, 1943.
            
            
            The training program consisted of work in mechanics, agriculture, construction methods, public health
                    and sanitation, food and nutrition, languages, history, and relief and reconstruction methods. The
                    trainees whose expenses were paid by the sponsoring churches lived in the college dormitories, and
                    except for their heavier school program were no different than the other students. A few
                    conscientious objectors from the camps at Lagro and Merom attended a similar program at 
                        Columbia
                     University in 
                        New York
                     where the special lecturers included Dr. Philip C. Jessup, the present 
                        United States
                     Ambassador at Large.40 All went well until Congress in June, 1943,
                    attached a rider to the military appropriations bill for 1943-1944 which provided that, "no
                    appropriation contained in this Act shall be used for any expenses pertaining to (1) the
                    instruction, education, or training of Class IV-E conscientious objectors in colleges, (2) the
                    service of such conscientious objectors outside the 
                        United States
                    , its territories and possessions, (3) the transportation of such conscientious
                    objectors to or from any college or any such service, or (4) the compensation of military or
                    civilian personnel performing any services with respect to the matters set forth in (1), (2), or (3)
                    above after the enactment of this Act, except any services which may be necessary promptly to
                    terminate any such class IV-E conscientious-objector college or foreign-service projects existing on
                    the date of the enactment of this Act."41
            
            Officials of the selective service system, including those in the top echelon of the CPS program,
                    received their salaries from the national government. The effect of the new law was to prohibit them
                    from allotting any assignees to the relief training program. Since several of the colleges had
                    started their training programs before the law was passed, they were permitted to go ahead and
                    complete the program within two months.
            This congressional action was a blow to morale within the CPS camps. The assignees interpreted this
                    latest setback 
                  
                     40 George T. Little, "Program of Training in International
                            Administration at 
                                Columbia
                             University," The American Friend (
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, 1912-), n.s. XXX (1942), 566-567; George Mathues of the American
                            Friends Service Committee, 
                                Philadelphia
                            , to the writer, March 4, 1949.
                  
                     41
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, LVII, 350; Hershberger, War, Peace,
                                and Nonresistance, 183-186.
               
                     as indicating a diminished regard for freedom of conscience.
                    Yet, the men maintained a vigorous interest in their studies, and after the close of the program
                    returned to their former units. CPS officials were told unofficially that one of the underlying
                    causes for the opposition in Congress was that some of the lawmakers resented Mrs.
                    Roosevelt's alleged influence in the government. When these lawmakers learned that she had
                    favored the special training program, they opposed the plan in order to thwart her.42
            
            Camp libraries, which at times received books from the Indiana State Library43
                    and the camp newspapers, such as, the Salamonie Peace Pipe, the Plowshare, and the
                    Bluffton Peace Sentinel, which provided practice in journalism, supplemented the
                    educational activities of the assignees. Those who had special interests in music or art usually
                    found ways and means of keeping their talents alive. An assignee at Merom used his spare time to
                    paint a mural in the dining hall of Merom Institute. Others attended lectures and musical programs
                    which were given at nearby colleges. Thus, in spite of the seemingly constant opposition, the CPS
                    camps did manage to achieve some success in the educational activities of their men.
            The religious phase of camp life consisted chiefly of Sunday morning services and daily morning
                    devotions. Due to the heterogeneous conglomeration of beliefs represented in the camps44 the religious services did not satisfy all the spiritual needs of the assignees. Many
                    of the men attended church services in the nearby communities. Some of the churches co-operated by
                    sending groups of young people to the camps, where they presented religious as well as recreational
                    performances. The assignees reciprocated by furnishing special music, and by leading in some of the
                    church activities.45
            
            In order to better the public relations between the camp and the nearby communities, an unofficial
                    "good neighbor" policy gradually took shape. The attitudes of the surrounding
                    communities varied. Some remained neutral, but others 
                  
                     42 Eisan, Pathways of Peace, 320-321; Gingerich, Service for Peace, 308.
                  
                     43 Lagro, Indiana, Salamonie Peace Pipe, August 8,
                            1941.
                  
                     44 Woodward, A Study of Civilian Public Service Camp #14, p. 6.
                  
                     45 Lagro, Indiana, Salamonie Peace Pipe, July 25,
                            1941.
               
                     showed evidence of hostility toward the men in camp. It was
                    while working at the Lagro camp farm that an objector felt several bullets whistling by his head. He
                    was not injured, however, and the assailant, after firing the fourth shot returned to his black
                    sedan and drove away. Prior to this, another man was attacked and abused while working on a camp
                    project. These incidents, caused chiefly by prejudice on the part of some townspeople, were met with
                    nonviolence on the part of the assignees.46 The situation was similar at Merom.
                    In order to avoid arousing antagonism, the men visited Sullivan either singly or in small groups. An
                    example of the hostile atmosphere of the town was evidenced by the attitude of the selective service
                    examining physician who lived in Sullivan. One of his duties was to examine the new assignees when
                    they arrived at Merom. Despite the fact that a considerable number were being rejected in the army
                    and other CPS units for physical disabilities, this doctor refused to reject any assignees at Merom
                    CPS No. 14. The first man to be released from Merom was a Hoosier who had been inducted just after
                    an automobile accident. After collapsing several times while doing soil conservation work, an X ray
                    was finally taken which revealed that the man's back had been broken in two places.
                    Following a third set of X rays, the selective service system became convinced of the
                    assignee's condition, and had him reclassified.47 Later the selective
                    service system appointed an army medical officer to visit the CPS camps and examine all men whose
                    condition warranted a re-examination.48 The camps at Bluffton and Medaryville
                    had a less colorful experience in the above respects, for public sentiment in their vicinities was
                    much more favorable toward the conscientious objectors.49
            
            In practicing the "good neighbor" policy, assignees aided local fire departments on
                    several occasions, and at one time supplied a local farmer with cots and blankets to replace those
                    which were destroyed in a fire. Another farmer in distress received fertilizer and seed which some
                    men at camp 
                  
                     46 Griffin, Civilian Public Service Camp No. 6, Lagro, 5, 16.
                  
                     47 Woodward, A Study of Civilian Public Service Camp #14, p. 13, 14,
                            and an interview with Ed. Lefferson (the person in question), Bloom-ington, Indiana, on
                            March 2, 1949.
                  
                     48 Medaryville, Indiana, 
                        
                                    Jasper
                                –
                                    Pulaski
                                 Peace Sentinel, April 24, 1942.
                  
                     49 Bluffton, Indiana, Peace Sentinel, September and
                            December, 1941.
               
                     bought from their food savings on special fast days. One group
                    of conscientious objectors used their spare time in making wooden toys for the underprivileged
                    children of the community. Others donated their free time on Saturdays by working on a community
                    project at a nearby college campus.50
            
            Lack of manpower gave the assignees an opportunity to render helpful aid to the local farmers by
                    participating in the harvesting of the corn crop. As selective service would not grant them time off
                    from ordinary labor, the assignees worked with the farmers in their free hours. Prevailing wages
                    were offered to the men at Lagro, but these were refused. Instead, the money was placed in a common
                    fund and later used to buy a combined resuscitator and inhalator for the 
                        Wabash County
                     Hospital.51
            
            Proffered aid by the conscientious objectors was not always welcome. When a tornado struck 
                        Kokomo
                     in 1942, Red Cross officials and others turned down the offer of conscientious
                    objectors to assist in clearing the debris. Legionnaires went so far as to say that they would
                    withdraw their help if assistance from the assignees was accepted. Members of the Building Trades
                    Union also voiced objections. Some families whose homes had been destroyed by the holocaust said
                    "they ‘preferred to do the work themselves,’ rather than accept such
                        assistance."52 At 
                        Goshen
                    , however, the conscientious objectors from Bluffton not only took an active part in
                    demolition work in the tornado stricken parts of that city, but were actually welcomed there.53 A year later, when the floods of the Wabash River caused
                    further damage, the American Red Cross again refused help from the conscientious objectors but this
                    time it did accept cots and blankets.54
            
            The closing of the CPS camps in Indiana meant for the most part a survey and inventory of all
                    equipment and the processing of records for the transfer of assignees to other units. While the
                    opening of Merom brought on a shower of opposition, the same attitude took place upon the closing of
                    Lagro. In October, 1943, when it became known that CPS 
                  
                     50 Lagro, Indiana, Salamonie Peace Pipe, April 15,
                            October 24, and December 13, 1941.
                  
                     51 Eisan, Pathways of Peace, 172-173.
                  
                     52
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, June 24, 1942; Lagro, Indiana, Salamonie Peace
                                Pipe, June 27, 1942.
                  
                     53 Bluffton, Indiana, Peace Sentinel, March 27,
                            1942.
                  
                     54 Griffin, Civilian Public Service Camp No. 6, Lagro, 14.
               
                     No. 6 was to be closed, officials of the soil conservation
                    service and members of the local community suddenly became active in an attempt to forestall the
                    closing of the camp. The camp superintendent, a government agent, hoping to increase the community
                    pressure to keep the camp open started a rumor that Italian war prisoners were to replace the
                    assignees at Lagro. This produced the desired effect. Opposition to the closing of Lagro came partly
                    because of the work being accomplished in the area and partly from the fact that the government
                    technicians would have to be transferred to other places with less favorable working conditions.
                    Farm leaders also joined the parade of opposition, as harvest time was approaching and farm labor
                    was scarce. The pressure groups, however, did not get very far since the Brethren Service Committee
                    had made several requests to the selective service system to close Lagro and two other Brethren
                    camps, and approval was finally granted. Selective service officials fearing that pressure from
                    Hoosier congressmen would make it necessary to keep the camp open, advanced the closing date of the
                    camp, which officially ceased to exist as of December 26, 1943. Men from Lagro and other Hoosier
                    camps were transferred to various parts of the 
                        United States
                     and to 
                        Puerto Rico
                    .55
            
            The attitude of the selective service system toward the civilian public service program had been one
                    of increasing liberalism as conditions warranted. This has already been shown in the educational
                    aspect when assignees were at first restricted to the use of their own free time for the furtherance
                    of specialized education. Selective service broadened its outlook toward the latter when it granted
                    assignees time off from their work so that they would be able to participate in the relief and
                    reconstruction training program. This same attitude was found in the farm labor program. The
                    assignees at first helped the farmers during their spare time. Later, selective service recognized
                    the need of farm labor and permitted the CPS men to take part in farm work during regular working
                    hours. The conscientious objector was paid at the rate of forty cents per hour. Thirty-five cents of
                    this went into a frozen fund in the 
                        United States
                     Treasury where it was to remain until a decision could be reached as to its proper
                        
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., 23, 24; Lagro, Indiana, Salamonie Peace Pipe,
                            November, 1943; Medaryville, Indiana, 
                        
                                    Jasper
                                –
                                    Pulaski
                                 Peace Sentinel, November 6, 20, 1942.
               
                     use, while the remainder went to the camp for the purchase of
                    gloves and special clothes for those engaged in the farm program.56 Workers
                    usually received their meals from the farmers with whom they were employed. Purdue University also
                    requested the aid of conscientious objectors for its agricultural station at 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana. Their task was to husk corn which had been raised for experimental purposes.
                    In return, the university had only to pay the cost of maintenance and transportation of the men. In
                    this instance, however, when the selective service system not only recognized the need of farm labor
                    but made it compulsory for CPS men, some repercussions resulted. A few of the assignees because of
                    conscience or other reasons refused to take part in the farm program. For their refusal to
                    participate, five men were transferred to another camp where there was no farm program. Another one
                    was sent to a government camp, while one was returned to prison.57
            
            Selective service showed further liberal tendencies when it permitted conscientious objectors to take
                    part in "guinea pig" projects and work in mental institutions and hospitals.
                    Indiana's conscientious objectors took part in experimental projects at the universities of 
                        Minnesota
                     and 
                        Rochester
                    , and at Northwestern and Indiana universities. These experiments included starvation
                    diets, the testing of different kinds of clothing for army use, protein deficiency and colds, and
                    the effects of high altitude on human beings. The volunteers received room and board, plus fifteen
                    dollars cash per month for miscellaneous expenses.58 Other Hoosiers served in
                    the State Mental Hospital at 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , the 
                        Chicago
                     Alexian Brothers Hospital, the South Western State Hospital in 
                        Virginia
                    , the Mental Institution at 
                        Lyons
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                    , and the 
                        Logansport
                     State Hospital in Indiana.59
            
            
               
                  56 Efforts are still being made by the NSBRO to have the money in this
                        frozen fund released to a rehabilitation project, but the Veterans of Foreign Wars are opposed
                        to this and want the fund (over one million dollars) turned over to veterans welfare and service
                        work. 
                            Washington, D. C.
                        , The Vet-Times, June 3, 1950.
               
                  57 Griffin, Civilian Public Service Camp No. 6, Lagro, 20-21.
               
                  58 Lagro, Indiana, Salamonie Peace Pipe; October, 1943;
                            Research for Relief (Brethren Service Commission, n.p., n.d.). Also
                        interviews with Professor Sid Robinson of Indiana University, February 24, 1949, who conducted
                        some of these experiments, and Robert I. Long, Bloom-ington, Indiana, March 2, 1949.
               
                  59 Interviews with Robert I. Long, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, March 2, 1949, and Jasper Garner, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, March 19, 1949. See also Of Human Importance, CPS No.
                        26, an illustrated pamphlet (Alexian Brothers Hospital, 
                     Chicago, Illinois
                  ,
                        1946), and the Lagro, Indiana, Salamonie Peace Pipe, December, 1942.
            
            
            
               
                        Logansport
                     solved its problem of inadequate hospital personnel for satisfactory institutional
                    operation by the installation of CPS unit No. 139. From fifteen to twenty-one conscientious
                    objectors were assigned to this unit. The superintendent of the hospital stated in an annual report
                    that the work done by these assignees was very good and that much better care and treatment was
                    rendered to the patients. "As a matter of fact," he said, "without the
                    services of this unit one cannot see how the patients could have been cared for." As male
                    attendants became more readily available, the unit was discontinued on March 1, 1946. Some of its
                    members returned to their base camps, while a few were discharged.60 When one
                    hospital, hearing of the widespread use of conscientious objectors as "guinea
                    pigs" put in a request for six men who would be willing to have their bones broken for a
                    bone setting experiment, both officials of the NSBRO and the selective service system agreed that
                    there was a limit to everything. They felt that the hospital could find enough subjects whose legs
                    had been broken accidentally. The request was not granted.61
            
            Further evidence of the growing liberal attitude of the selective service system toward the use of
                    conscientious objectors was shown in allowing assignees to be detailed to relief work. One of these
                    relief depots was located at Nappanee, Indiana, where a group of CPS men assisted in the preparation
                    of relief clothing for shipping and in the making of soap. This work was under the auspices of the
                    Church of the Brethren.62 When the opportunity at last presented itself, many
                    conscientious objectors went into foreign relief work. This for the most part entailed voyages to
                            
                  Poland, Greece
               , and 
                        Italy
                    , to which countries cattle, horses, and other domestic animals were being shipped on
                    relief projects.63 There were 
                  
                     60
                            Fifty-Seventh Year of the 
                                    Logansport
                                 State Hospital, Report for the Year ending June 30, 1945 (
                                Logansport
                            , Indiana); and the Fifty-Eighth Year of the 
                                    Logansport
                                 State Hospital, Report for the Year ending June 30, 1946 (
                                Logansport
                            , Indiana).
                  
                     61
                            The Reporter, published by the National Service Board of Religious
                            Objectors (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1942-?), I, December 1, 1942.
                  
                     62 Eisan, Pathways of Peace, 322-323.
                  
                     63 Interview on March 3, 1949, with Richard E. Mundy of Bloom-ington,
                            Indiana, who took part in the experiment at the University of 
                                Minnesota
                            .
               
                     other opportunities for useful activity but many of these were
                    closed to conscientious objectors because of the opposition of the American Legion and similar
                        organizations.64
            
            The conscientious objectors, despite the differences of opinion among themselves, did find common
                    ground in their dissatisfactions. Their chief complaint was the insignificance or triviality of the
                    work assigned to them. Many felt that the toil was "made work," chiefly for the
                    purpose of keeping them occupied. This was emphasized by the use of hand tools on certain jobs where
                    machinery would have proved more efficient and time saving. Assignees were given tasks which were
                    not equal to their education and ability. As the men were unselected and unclassified as far as work
                    skills were concerned, it was inevitable that the work would have to be of a kind that could be done
                    immediately by all of them.65
            
            Talents and experience of those assignees who were trained in various professions and skills were
                    wasted because they were unable to work well at the manual labor provided. Accomplished pianists
                    worked in the laundry and kitchen. Men with college degrees and graduate work at 
                        Harvard
                     University were assigned to kitchen duty and to pulling weeds and sifting gravel. The
                    group most satisfied with the work of the projects were the Mennonites, who, for the greater part
                    were farmers, used to hard work. Hookworm control, forest fire fighting, mental hospitals,
                    agricultural experiment stations, and "guinea pig" experiments were some of the
                    special projects that were preferred by the CPS men.66
            
            Lack of pay and compensation for injury and dependency gave rise to the term "slave labor
                    camps," in reference to the CPS camps. Many felt that the government should pay them, but
                    there were others who were opposed to governmental aid. This denial of pay to the assignees was
                    chiefly the doing of General Hershey, the director of selective service, who not only blocked any
                    proposals for pay, but also prevented the men from keeping the money which they had earned on the
                        
                  
                     64 Paul J. Furnas, Comptroller of Earlham College, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, to the writer, December 28, 1948.
                  
                     65 Ralph Rudd, 
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     , to
                            the writer, March 15, 1949.
                  
                     66 Woodward, A Study of Civilian Public Service Camp No. 6, Lagro, 9;
                            Robert M. Lumpkin, Losantville, Indiana, February 6, 1949, and Ralph Curtis, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, January, 1949, to the writer; interview with Roland Bartel, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, on February 26, 1949; The Experience of the American
                                Friends Service Committee in Civilian Public Service, (1941-1945), (n.p., n.d.),
                            37-38.
               
                     farm. Because of financial pressure, especially in the case of
                    married men, many were forced to change their status from Class IV-E to Class I-A–0.67 The lack of compensation also caused hardship in some instances. In one case
                    at Lagro where an assignee had his left foot severely lacerated by a power machine, the men of the
                    camp by a frugal meal, personal contributions, and financial aid from an outside source managed to
                    raise $96.44 to pay for the hospital and medical expenses.68 Other
                    issues of controversy were the visitations of army officers at the camps for routine inspections,
                    isolation from society, difficulty of obtaining discharges for sick persons, and the transfer of
                    conscientious objectors from church sponsored camps to government operated camps by the selective
                    service system.69
            
            In general, as has already been shown, the attitudes of the communities depended on the localities
                    and the prejudices of the people. One Hoosier farmer representing those who were
                        favorably disposed toward the CPS program wrote, "My first interest in the coming
                    of the camp lay in our need of soil conservation work. Not in my memory have we had a summer season
                    of continuous rains that proved to us so conclusively the need of this type of work. Glaring erosion
                    and flood control problems meet us in every field … we, as farmers will have a more
                    awakened sense of responsibility in our use and in our care of the soil. From the second standpoint,
                    many of us to whom the thinking of the camp members was entirely new and strange have grown in
                    tolerance, understanding, and better thinking from our camp contacts. We all of us cherish and wish
                    to insure the continuance of a democratic form of government and know that suppression of conscience
                    is totalitarianism in principle ….70
            
            On the other hand, the antagonistic attitude of some was evidenced by the following excerpts from a
                    letter which was 
                  
                     67 "Conscientious Objectors in World War II," Quarterly Research Survey (
                        Ithaca, New York
                     ,
                            January, 1949), 6. Also an interview with Henry Swain, 
                                Nashville
                            , Indiana, January 12, 1949.
                  
                     68 Medaryville, Indiana, 
                        
                                    Jasper
                                –
                                    Pulaski
                                 Peace Sentinel, August 28, 1942.
                  
                     69
                            Three Years of Civilian Public Service, May 15, 1941-May 15, 1944, Report of
                                the Executive Secretary, issued by the NSBRO on August 5, 1944, p. 28; Mulford
                            Sibley and Ada Wardlaw, Conscientious Objectors in Prison, 1940-1945 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1945), 17.
                  
                     70 Merom, Indiana, Plowshare, July, 1942.
               
                     sent to the editor of a CPS publication: "…
                    This community is deceased [sic] with some of your stripe going under the name of
                    Mennonites and Jehova's Witnesses. I think Jehova would be insulted to have such a bunch of
                    selfish cowards use his name. I cannot understand the workings of a mind which let its possessor
                    register as a CO under the present circumstances unless he were a foreign sympathizer. They might be
                    fifth communists [sic] or some other filthy un-American organization. How any
                    young man can see other young men go to fight to maintain the freedom such as we
                    have for both themselves and the COs, and be content to stay in a safe camp where they can eat their
                    fill, study and read and have entertainment, is more than I can understand. The redblooded white
                    boys (Some of them have black skins but they are white inside) are patriotic and are willing to do
                    all they can to help. But what does the cowardly bunch you fellows foster do? They are unwilling to
                    help their neighbor in distress. I suppose if the Japs or Germans actually invaded this country
                    those cowards would hide behind some womens skirts … Please take my name off your mailing
                    list and do not insult a good American by even thinking of such a thing. If you will stop taking
                    those shots in the arm of whatever you do to get into such a state of mind you could be a credit to
                    this nation. I wouldn't trust one of you fellows the least bit. I am working with anyone
                    who will see that your stripe get sufficient punishment for your cowardice. These CO farmers here
                    dont refuse help from the government but they certainly are not willing to risk anything in return.
                    I am in favor of putting all of your kind on a Pacific Island and letting the Japs take you. I
                    rather think you would fight or die then. It is a pity that you are allowed to live in this country
                    and contaminate it!"71
            
            The civilian public service program in Indiana, with all its inadequacies was definitely a step
                    forward as compared to the treatment of CO's in World War I. The recognition of
                    conscientious objectors of all faiths and the alternate program of military service were new
                    innovations, whereas during World War I conscientious objectors were only recognized in certain
                    denominations, and the only alternative was noncom-batant service in the military forces. A more
                    efficient CPS program would have resulted had many of its deficiencies 
                  
                     71
                            Ibid., August, 1942.
               
                     been corrected. These deficiencies included the wasteful use of
                    conscientious objectors, the delays in reclassifying men who were physically or mentally unfit, the
                    financial insecurity as evidenced by the lack of compensation for injuries and disabilities, and the
                    absence of dependency benefits. Other unfavorable aspects were the hostile attitudes of some
                    communities and the outspoken opposition of the American Legion, the American Red Cross, and other
                    organizations. This intolerance on the part of some American patriotic organizations sometimes with
                    too chauvinistic tendencies cannot continue without injuring the fundamentals of American democracy.
                    For the maintenance of basic principles on which the government of the 
                        United States
                     was founded, there should be equal respect and consideration on the part of the
                    government and its constituents toward all its citizens.72
            
            The real question that still remains to be answered is whether or not the CPS program actually
                    answered the problem of the conscientious objector in time of war. Many who took part in this
                    program are of the opinion that the best solution would be one as worked out in Great Britain, where
                    the conscientious objector had an opportunity to pick out the job in which he was interested and for
                    which he was qualified.73 Some felt that CPS was the best that could be offered,
                    and that its chief weakness was its close affiliation with the selective service system which was
                    directed by an army officer. Thus, the problem has yet to be solved in a manner satisfactory to all
                    involved. Perhaps the real answer lies in the question General Archibald P. Wavell, former
                    commander-in–chief of the British forces in 
                        Libya
                    , asked his troops: "Have you ever thought what a world we could make if we put
                    into peace endeavors the energy, self-sacrifice and co-operation we use in the wastefulness of
                        war?"74
            
            
               
                  72 See The Experience of the American Friends Service
                            Committee in Civilian Public Service for the 
                            Quaker
                         viewpoint toward CPS.
               
                  73 Ralph Rudd, 
                     Cleveland,
                                Ohio
                  , to the writer, March 15, 1949.
               
                  74
                        Life (
                            Chicago
                        , 1936-), X (February 17, 1941), 32.
            
         
         
         
            The Editor's Page
            The annual meeting of the Indiana Historical Society will be held on December 9 in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . More detailed information will be mailed to all members in the near future.
            The sixteenth annual meeting of the Southern Historical Association will be held in
                            
                  Atlanta, Georgia
               , on November 9, 10, and 11. J. C. Booner of George State College
                    for Women, the program chairman, has arranged for six sessions dealing with various phases of
                    southern history, one session each on Latin-American, medieval, and Russian history, and a
                    round-table discussion on the college history program for undergraduates.
            The annual meeting of the American Historical Association will be held at the Stevens Hotel in 
                        Chicago
                    , December 28, 29, and 30.
            An article by Henry J. Taylor, "What Our Colleges Don't Require," in the
                        Reader's Digest (September, 1950), 56-58, condensed from radio
                    broadcasts, bemoaned the fact that a number of the outstanding universities in the 
                        United States
                     do not require American history for graduation. One way to keep abreast with the times
                    in this field is to become a member of the Mississippi Valley Historical
                    Association and receive its publication, the 
                  Mississippi Valley
                        Historical Review, which is devoted entirely to American history. The spring meeting of
                    this organization will be held in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . For further information on the Mississippi Valley Historical
                    Association write to Miss Elfrieda Lang Indiana Magazine of
                        History Indiana University
                        
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana
            
            Teachers of history in the state of Indiana are fortunate in having so many of these historical
                    meetings within the proximity of the Hoosier State.
         
         
         
            The Influence of River Transportation on 
                        St. Joseph
                     and 
                        Elkhart Counties
                    , 1830-1860
            
               Leon M. Gordon II*
            Faced with dense forests thick with underbrush and broken if at all only by crude Indian trails,
                    emigrants to frontier areas welcomed every waterway as the easiest mode of travel because
                    comparatively little work was necessary to make them serviceable. For this reason their use might
                    well be considered the first step in the development of a transportation system. The St.
                        Joseph of Lake Michigan and Elkhart rivers
                    lie in the southern part of the 
                        Mississippi
                    –St. Lawrence Divide, although nowhere in northern Indiana is the margin
                    sharply marked. Indeed, unusually high waters of the 
                        St. Joseph
                     would normally merge with the headwaters of the Kankakee River in
                    the vicinity of 
                        South Bend
                    .1 In both 
                        St. Joseph
                     and 
                        Elkhart counties
                     rolling topography and small lakes are characteristic.2
            
            To credit the growth of the two counties mentioned solely to their river namesake would obviously
                    convey an erroneous impression by disregarding other important factors like the Michigan Road.
                    Because of its importance, however, the role of river transportation can be used as a frame to
                    picture the development of 
                        St. Joseph
                     and 
                        Elkhart counties
                     between 1830 and 1860.
            Typical appraisals of the St. Joseph River in numerous gazetteers of this period
                    noted that it rose in southern 
                        Michigan
                     and entered Indiana about the middle of northern 
                        Elkhart County
                    . The stream received the 
                        Elkhart
                     and other tributaries, then flowed west into 
                        St. Joseph County
                    . After making its famous bend to the north, the river again flowed through 
                        Michigan
                     to the lake. Most of the guidebooks agreed that the clear channel was navigable from
                    its mouth to 
                        South Bend
                     and frequently farther unless blocked by ice.3
            
            One of the earliest commentaries on these rivers and the 
                  * Leon M. Gordon II is a graduate student in history at Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 Clyde A. Malott, "The Physiography of Indiana,"
                                Handbook of Indiana Geology (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1922), 71.
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., 113-114, 116-124.
                  
                     3 John Scott, The Indiana Gazetteer (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1833), 166; John M. Peck, A New Guide for Emigrants to the
                            West (
                                Boston
                            , 1836), 227; J. H. Colton, The State of Indiana Delineated (
                                New York
                            , 1838), 36-37.
               
                     area through which they flowed was made by an unidentified
                    traveler in 1829, who contrasted the top-quality soil and timber of their bottom lands with the thin
                    soil and inferior oak and hickory nearer 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . He considered 
                        Elkhart
                        Prairie
                     equally excellent, with a good town site at the junction of the 
                        Elkhart
                     and St. Joseph Rivers. The latter stream impressed him as a deep
                    navigable waterway upon which keel-boats and arks could make the trip of seventy-five to one hundred
                    miles to the lake at all seasons.4
            
            Actually, travel by ark was sometimes possible only in the spring and fall or after heavy rains, but
                    it was considered more exciting, faster, and less expensive than overland hauling. Under sailing
                    conditions then prevalent, bridges and dams were the greatest dangers encountered. The flatbottoms
                    were little more than rafts with sides and a roof guided by an immense oar placed along the edge of
                    the roof near the bow and another at the stern. Having reached their destination, the vessels were
                    usually broken up for lumber. Some of the better constructed arks had a wood framework four feet
                    deep, sixteen feet wide, and up to fifty feet long. Keelboats were long and sharp, drawing little
                    water, with a covered deck about six feet high and a narrow passageway along one side. Eight to
                    twelve oars placed at the bow were only used to descend the river, which enabled the boat to travel
                    two or three miles an hour faster than the current. The ships were allowed to float at night,
                    however, except where navigation was difficult. Poling was used for motivation upstream but made a
                    very tedious journey.5
            
            The same traveler of 1829 noted an establishment of the American Fur Company at the south bend of the
                        St. Joseph River twenty miles below the mouth of the 
                        Elkhart
                     where the high, dry plain afforded a handsome and extensive site for a village. By an
                    act of January 29, 1830, 
                        St. Joseph County
                     was organized, and all the area west to the 
                        Illinois
                     line and south to the Kankakee was attached to it for administrative purposes. At that
                    time, however, only 287 people in the entire region came under the new government.6
            
            
               
                  4 "Northern Indiana in 1829," Indiana
                            Magazine of History (Bloom-ington, Indiana, 1905-), III (1907), 84.
               
                  5 James Hall, Letters from the West (
                            London
                        , 1828), 323-324.
               
                  6 "Northern Indiana in 1829," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, III, 85; Laws of Indiana, 1829-1830, pp. 28-31;
                            Eleventh Census of the 
                                United States
                            , Population, I, 18.
            
            
            Martin M. Post, the Presbyterian missionary at Logans-port, acknowledged this legislative act the
                    next spring and was pleased with the clear springs and crystal lakes that abounded along the river.
                    The fertile, healthy woods and prairie land along the lake were rapidly filling with emigrants.7 A correspondent of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal in an article on November 30, 1830, expressed the belief that within the
                    next few years the incipient town would become one of the most important north of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Although his time limit was too short, the opinion was correct. In common with other
                    frontier regions the prevalency of deer and other game was likewise happily observed.8
            
            By the spring of 1831 regular keelboat service for general freighting was initiated on the 
                        St. Joseph
                    , and a bottle of whisky was smashed over the first boat's bow in the best
                    nautical tradition. The number of keelboats and arks increased rapidly in the thirties as the
                    possibilities for connections with the Great Lakes and eastern markets were realized.9 Along the ninety-six–mile trip from the mouth of the Elkhart
                    River to 
                  St. Joseph, Michigan
               , towns like 
                        Elkhart
                    , 
                        Mishawaka
                    , 
                        South Bend
                    , and 
                        Niles
                     were given considerable impetus by the resultant traffic.10
            
            With the exception of the 
                        Wabash
                    , the 
                        St. Joseph
                     and Elkhart Rivers bore the heaviest travel of all northern
                    Indiana streams. Cargoes of surplus pork, flour, and corn in the form of whisky were shipped to
                    Buffalo and other eastern markets 
                  
                     7 Martin M. Post to Absalom Peters, 
                                Logansport
                            , May 24, 1830, in American Home Missionary Society Manuscripts photostats
                            (hereafter referred to as A.H.M.S. MSS photostats) in Indiana Division, Indiana State
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     8 Charles C. Chapman & Co. (pub.), History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1880), 843.
                  
                     9 Of great importance in this connection was the Erie Canal connecting 
                                Albany
                             on the Hudson River and Buffalo on Lake Erie. Construction
                            of the 363 mile long channel was completed in 1825. Without the canal "the
                            settlement of the Old Northwest, north of the line of the National Road, would …
                            have been … so greatly retarded … that the War for Southern
                            Independence might have terminated otherwise than it did." Edward Channing. A History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (6 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1905-1924). V (1922), 11-15. On the 
                                New York
                             canals, see Noble E. Whitford, History of the Canal System of
                                … 
                                    New York
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                        Albany,
                                    New York
                     , 1906). The
                            Canal's influence on the Old Northwest is carefully set forth in A. L. Kohlmeier.
                                The Old Northwest as the Keystone of the Arch of American Federal
                            Union (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1938).
                  
                     10 Anthony Deahl, A Twentieth Century History and
                                Biographical Record of 
                                    Elkhart County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1905), 194-195.
               
                     by way of the former waterway and the Great Lakes. Besides farm
                    produce, iron ore was shipped to 
                        Mishawaka
                     from west of Bristol where a stove factory and foundry were in operation. At 
                        Elkhart
                     on the 
                        St. Joseph
                     a ferryman paid four dollars a year for his permit from the board of justices which
                    stipulated that he had to supply safe boats forty feet long. He was allowed to charge the following
                    rates: a wagon and six horses or three yoke of oxen, 75¢; a wagon and four horses or two
                    yoke of oxen, 621/2¢; a wagon and three horses or
                    three oxen, 50¢; a wagon and two horses or one yoke of oxen, 371/2¢; a wagon and one horse or one ox, 25¢; horse and rider,
                        121/2¢; a footman or single horse, 61/4¢; cattle 4¢ a head; and hogs and
                    sheep 1¢ a head.11
            
            At least partly as a result of such nascent river activity the 
                        St. Joseph
                     country by 1831 had begun to attract emigrants particularly from southern Indiana and
                    central and southwestern 
                        Ohio
                    , although the trip necessitated a journey of two hundred to two hundred and fifty miles
                    under difficult conditions. Heavily timbered areas and swamp lands were intersected by narrow roads,
                    which were nearly impassable in wet weather. Cold and snow during the winter of 1830-1831
                    accentuated the problem of obtaining provisions for men and livestock. There was not a house between
                    beautiful Harris Prairie and South Bend in June, 1831. In fact, only five log houses, a tannery, an
                    Indian store, and Alexis Coquillard's12 trading post and cabins on the
                    river bank were seen in the town. Except for six other cabins outside the town plat, the southern
                    half of the county was unbroken forest.13
            
            Two men who were to become leading citizens of the new town arrived together in August, 1831. John D.
                    Defrees from 
                        Piqua
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , became a publisher of the Northwestern Pioneer, equipment for which
                    was hauled by wagon from 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The initial issue appeared on November 23, 1831, 
                  
                     11 Henry S. K. Bartholomew, Pioneer History of 
                                    Elkhart County
                                , Indiana (
                                Goshen
                            , Indiana, 1930), 333-335. See also Otto M. Knoblock, "Early Navigation
                            on the St. Joseph River," in Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1895-), VIII (1925), 183-200.
                  
                     12 Coquillard came to 
                                South Bend
                             as early as 1824, after employment as a fur trader by the Astor interests. He
                            is credited with founding and naming 
                                South Bend
                             and was influential in the town's early history. In 1854 he undertook
                            the removal of Potawatomie Indians from northern Indiana and southern 
                                Michigan
                             to 
                                Kansas
                            . Jacob P. Dunn, Memorial and Genealogical Record of Representative
                                Citizens of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1914), 698.
                  
                     13 Chapman, History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                
                     , 609-611.
               
                     printed on a hand press and inked by two buckskin balls stuffed
                    with wool. The fledgling editor's companion, Jacob Hardman, the first physician in the
                    county, came from 
                  Springfield, Ohio
               . He estimated that there were 163 people in the village
                    proper when he arrived.14
            
            Settlement was slower to fan out south of land contiguous to the river, and not until 1833, was the
                    first hewn-log house built in 
                        Clay
                     Township. Of better than average quality, it boasted a hardwood floor of matched oak, a
                    brick chimney, and pine shingle roof. A garret used as a storage space or extra bedroom and one
                    large room below with a spacious fireplace and cellar completed its facilities.15
            
            In the fall of 1832 the first settlers came into future 
                        Greene
                     Township after an advance party had plowed their land and planted crops in the spring.
                    On September 2, the main group of twelve wagons, sixty people, and a large quantity of livestock
                    left Xenia, 
                        Ohio
                    . Passing over increasingly poor roads through 
                        Dayton
                    , 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , 
                        Goshen
                    , and 
                        Elkhart
                     to 
                        South Bend
                    , the settlers considered the latter place only a little Indian trading post of a few
                    log cabins among the oaks. The colony built on Sumption Prairie and brought in more supplies from 
                        Ohio
                     in the spring of 1833.16
            
            At the same time other travelers barely noticed the small village at the south bend, and concentrated
                    on the verdant scenery in the vicinity. Nevertheless, by 1833 a guidebook which was anxious to
                    present 
                        South Bend
                     in the best light stressed its location on a beautiful black oak barren about forty
                    feet above high water. Twenty brick and frame houses and two hundred inhabitants, including two
                    physicians, two lawyers, and a number of mechanics, were claimed for the town. It also contained
                    three taverns, three mercantile stores, and a printing office which published a weekly paper.17
            
            By the early thirties the town was attracting notice as far south as Delphi where James Crawford, the
                    Presbyterian missionary, echoed an earlier lament of his co-worker at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     that no preacher of their sect was active in the vicinity. 
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 519-520, 512, 571.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 515; Timothy E. Howard, A History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1907), I, 146-147.
                  
                     16 Howard, History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                
                     , I, 141-144.
                  
                     17 Scott, The Indiana Gazetteer, 162. The newspaper
                            referred to was the St Joseph Beacon, a weekly which first appeared on May
                            23, 1832.
               
                     In fact, a 
                        South Bend
                     merchant was the only member in December, 1832. Although the town could boast a good
                    uncovered brick courthouse about forty feet square, there was no building expressly for public
                        worship.18
            
            Crawford's cohort at 
                        Logansport
                     expressed similar sentiment but stressed the health, beauty, and soil fertility in the
                    area. Both were convinced that by prompt action and with sufficient encouragement the area could
                    become an important section of the church in a short time. In every respect it was a "field
                    white for the harvest."19
            
            Settlement was sporadic and irregular away from the river, and grasscovered expanses between Terre
                    Coupee and Portage prairies contained few families in 1833. A settler passing through in October was
                    more impressed by burr oak groves thirty to forty feet high than by the "few
                    houses" in the town. Another traveler the same year, however, who viewed the courthouse and
                    nearby log cabins and tavern, considered the place to be of considerable importance.20
            
            By the end of 1833 settlers buzzed with excitement over reports that the following season a steamboat
                    would ply between 
                  St. Joseph, Michigan
               , at the mouth of the river, and 
                        South Bend
                    . The exciting prospects encouraged hopes that 
                        New York
                     visitors would come to the latter town by rail and steamer in a few days. Moreover,
                    Delmonico's and other 
                        New York
                     restaurants could then serve the fish and game delicacies of the Midwest.21 Within seven months these hopes were partially fulfilled when a small steamer plied
                    once or twice a week from the mouth of the 
                        St. Joseph
                     past 
                        South Bend
                    . The river was found to be 280 feet wide at 
                        Bertrand
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    , by George Evans, a 
                        Quaker
                     missionary, who crossed it in 1839. He called it a "considerable"
                    stream "the water being deep" which afforded good steamboat navigation.22
            
            
               
                  18 James Chute to Absalom Peters, 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , June 13, 1832; James Crawford to Absalom Peters, Delphi, December 12, 1832,
                        A.H.M.S. MSS photostats.
               
                  19 James Carnahan to Absalom Peters, Delphi, February 12, 1833; Martin M.
                        Post to Absalom Peters, 
                            Logansport
                        , June 26, 1833, ibid.
               
               
                  20 Chapman, History of 
                                St. Joseph County
                            
                  , 510; History of 
                                Lake County
                            
                  , 
                            Lake County
                         Historical Association Publication (Gary, Indiana, 1929), X, 77;
                        Hugh McCuUoch, Men and Manners of Half a Century (
                            New York
                        , 1888), 89.
               
                  21 Charles F. Hoffman, A Winter in the West (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1835), I, 222-223.
               
                  22 Martin M. Post to Absalom Peters, 
                            Logansport
                        , July 3, 1834, A.H.M.S. MSS photostats; George Evans to his Family and Particular
                        Friends, 
                            Spiceland
                        , 
                            Henry County
                        , MS in Evans Collection, Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            Two years later another observer credited 
                        Niles
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    , served by steamers from 
                        Buffalo
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    , with being the head of navigation on the 
                        St. Joseph
                    . As indicated above, however, travel actually extended farther east. In fact, by 1847
                    four steamboats and innumerable keelboats and arks were navigating the stream for 175 miles from 
                        St. Joseph
                     to Union City. Particularly in the spring and fall a deeply laden boat of some
                    character was nearly always visible on the "beautiful stream."23
            
            Meanwhile, settlement had been rapid in the spring of 1833, largely because anxiety over the effects
                    of Black Hawk's War had ended. About the same time the iron works diverted John Merrill, a
                    missionary on his way to 
                        La Porte
                    , and he urged that 
                        South Bend
                     be supplied with a minister at least by the following spring. A Presbyterian church was
                    organized at 
                        South Bend
                     in the second quarter of 1834, when there were an estimated five to six hundred people
                    in the town without religious instruction. Post called it one of the most inviting spots in Indiana
                    because of a rapidly increasing population, some very good buildings, and the beautiful healthy
                        location.24
            
            Finally, in the summer of 1835 residents of 
                        St. Joseph County
                     welcomed John McConnell, a Presbyterian cleric, who recorded one hundred families at
                    the south bend and predicted the town would soon take its place among the cities of the West. Some
                    prospective settlers, however, were not so enthusiastic, and Jacob Schramm returned to 
                        Hancock County
                     in November, 1835, because of sandy oil in the 
                        South Bend
                     region. The next June an emigrant from 
                        Montgomery County
                     called the town "very small" and observed only a few houses, two or
                    three stores, a small brick courthouse, a log jail, and the American Hotel.25
            
            Another settler later that summer wrote that the Methodists had built a church and secured a minister
                    within the 
                  
                     23 Lansing B. Swan, Journal of a Trip to 
                                    Michigan
                                 in 1841 (
                        Rochester,
                                    New York
                     , 1904), 26-27; Chapman,
                                History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                
                     , 535.
                  
                     24 Howard, History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                
                     , I, 144; John Merrill, to Absalom Peters, 
                                La Porte
                            , January 20, 1834; Martin M. Post to Absalom Peters, 
                                Logansport
                            , July 3, 1834, A.H.M.S. MSS photostats.
                  
                     25 John McConnell to Absalom Peters, 
                                St. Joseph County
                            , June 15, 1835, A.H.M.S. MSS photostats; "The Schramm
                            Letters," Indiana Historical Society Publications, XI (1935),
                            273; Howard, History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                
                     , I, 147.
               
                     last six months, and that the town's courthouse was
                    modeled after one in 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               . The multiplicity of election candidates amused him.
                    Estimates of the population varied from seven hundred in the spring of 1837 to fifteen hundred in
                    1838. By 1840 figures ranged from as low as 728 to 1,200. The latter number seems more probable, and
                    the same source also listed ten lawyers, nine doctors, and nine merchants.26
            
            The fact that some 
                        South Bend
                     residents were not averse to making a dishonest dollar came to light about 1837 when a
                    raid disclosed that a cake and beer shop was actually a counterfeiting center fully equipped with a
                    press, dies, copper, and arsenic. Nevertheless, the town's continuing growth necessitated
                    eight inns there in 1840. Enthusiasm was dampened, however, by the widespread effects of illness
                    which incapacitated four-fifths of the population and prostrated entire families, according to one
                    account. Convalescence was slow, some physicians died on the job, wheat and other crops went
                    unharvested, and grass sprouted up in the main streets.27
            
            By 1840 the population of the county had risen to 6,425, and just two years later the county seat was
                    considered important enough for Bishop Stephen T. Badin of 
                        Vincennes
                     to make a grant of land near 
                        South Bend
                     to the order of Our Lady of Holy Cross on condition that it be used to support a
                    college. On November 16, Father Edward Sorin, who became the school's first president, and
                    seven others began the eleven-day trip from 
                        Vincennes
                     of over one hundred miles through snow and piercing wind. A cordial reception and the
                    frozen beauty of the site refreshed them all and inspired anticipation of success with the help of
                    friends in 
                        France
                    .28
            
            
               
                  26 Colton, Indiana Delineated, 36; C. W. Cady, The Indiana Annual Register and Pocket Manual for the Year 1845 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1844), 144; Chapman, History of 
                                St. Joseph County
                            
                  , 855.
               
                  27 Chapman, History of 
                                St. Joseph County
                            
                  , 537, 616-617; Howard History of 
                                St. Joseph County
                            
                  , I, 432-438.
               
                  28
                        Eleventh Census of the 
                                United States
                            , Population, I, 18; Edward Sorin to Basil Moreau, rector of Le Mans, 
                            France
                        , December 5, 1842, Circular Letters of the Very Rev. Edward Sorin
                        (Notre Dame, Indiana, 1885), 260-261. On October 13, 1841, a small party from the Order of Our
                        Lady of Holy Cross came to St. Peter's, twenty-five miles east of 
                            Vincennes
                        , having landed in 
                            New York
                         just a few months previously. Those who left forNotre Dame
                        November 16 in addition to Sorin included Fathers Patois and Monsimer and Novices Patrick
                        Connelly, Francis Disser, Pete Tully, Basil O'Neill, and William O'Sull.
                        Typewritten transcript in Notre Dame Archives. Thirteen years later the
                        boys' college at Notre Dame boasted fifty-nine American students,
                        twelve French, six German, and three Belgians. In addition, a manual labor school for boys had
                        thirty pupils. MS dated 1854 in Notre Dame Archives.
            
            
            An unnamed correspondent writing to the editor of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Freeman's Journal, July 5, 1873, praised the courage of the founders of
                    what became Notre Dame University at a time when "the Native American
                    party" was attacking Catholic institutions and adherents. Stopping at the school on
                    Christmas Eve, 1844, before proceeding to 
                        Detroit
                    , he noted the small brick schoolhouse and the church whose altar was "a blaze
                    of brilliancy" from which burning incense "filled the house with a blaze of glory
                    and enveloped the altar lights [in] a soft and pleasing aureole." Although finding a
                    comfortable position in his bed that night was "like looking for the soft side of a deal
                    board," it was the best the place afforded.29
            
            Meanwhile, on January 14, 1844, 
                        South Bend
                     had been incorporated, and a year later an unsuccessful experiment in communal living
                    was made two miles below the town. A joint stock company under the title of 
                        Philadelphia
                     Industrial Association operated for nearly two years with about one hundred
                    participants, but not over seventy lived in the colony at one time. Dissatisfaction over land
                    entries was blamed for the society's failure.30
            
            By 1847 an estimated eighty run of millstones and increasing numbers of iron, wool, and leather
                    manufactories lined the banks of the 
                        St. Joseph
                     and its tributaries. Three years later the town's manufacturing and commercial
                    activity ceased temporarily when the population turned out en masse to see twelve
                    wagons of a typical joint stock company depart on the search for 
                        California
                     gold. Captain George Woodsworth, leader of the 
                        St. Joseph
                    's Company, made a series of agreements February 25 and 27, 1850, crediting
                        Notre Dame University with outfitting the gold-hunting expedition. The
                    school sent along Gregory J. Campeau and Michael Dowling as its representatives. Members of the
                    expedition agreed loyally to bind themselves together for two years; to live under the regulations
                    of Notre Dame as nearly as possible; to hold a monthly retreat; to be prompt
                    and perfectly obedient to the captain and lieutenant; to order the secretary to keep an exact
                    account of all receipts and expenditures; to hold mass and confession whenever possible; and to
                    either divide all 
                  
                     29 Typewritten Transcript in Notre Dame Archives
                            from the Catholic Archives of America.
                  
                     30 Laws of Indiana, 1843-1844, Local, 35-44; Howard,
                                History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                
                     , 306.
               
                     profits after two years or continue work for two more. They
                    also made other provisions relative to religious matters and management of the company's
                    funds, which included an initial capitalization of $1,450.31
            
            In 1850, 
                        South Bend
                     numbered 1,653 inhabitants and the county 10,954. Despite rapid growth, however, the
                    decade closed with a reminder that isolated cabins throughout the county were still surrounded by
                    forest, swamp, and marsh which necessitated extensive clearing and eventual drainage. Although fever
                    and ague remained an annual deterrent to progress, cultivated fields, pastures, fencing, and
                    improved homes were soon the rule. By 1860 the county's population had risen to 18,455, and
                    estimates for 
                        South Bend
                     ranged from 3,832 to 4,013. The latter figure was probably more accurate, and the same
                    source noted thirty stores, six churches, and two Catholic female seminaries in the town.32
            
            
               
                        Mishawaka
                    , the county's second most important city, had been laid out eight miles from 
                        South Bend
                     by the summer of 1835, and contracts were let for the erection of one hundred homes
                    that season. Late in the summer of 1836, Dr. E. W. H. Ellis, one of thirty emigrants who came
                    through 
                        Mishawaka
                     from 
                        Brockport
                    , 
                        New York
                    , noted that it had only recently dropped the name 
                        St. Joseph
                     Iron Works and was becoming quite prosperous. He estimated that there were five hundred
                    people in the town and observed many comfortable homes of "creditable"
                    architecture. 
                        Mishawaka
                     shared in the Methodist revivalist activity of 1850, and ten years later boasted 1,486
                        inhabitants.33
            
            A similar pattern of river transportation influence can be seen on 
                        Elkhart County
                     immediately east of 
                        St. Joseph
                    . Descriptions of the Elkhart River were fewer than for the 
                        St. Joseph
                     between 1830 and 1860. Nevertheless, it was described in 1829 as a fine
                    "boatable stream," over a horse's knees in depth, which afforded ample
                    water power in the driest season for all types of machinery. An early settler, 
                  
                     31 MS No. 58, Notre Dame Archives.
                  
                     32
                            Eleventh Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , Population, I, 18; Chapman, History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                
                     , 855; Howard, History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                
                     , I, 151-153; John W. Barber, Our Whole Country (2
                            vols., 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1861), II, 1050.
                  
                     33 John McConnell to Absalom Peters, 
                                St. Joseph County
                            , June 15, 1835, A.H.M.S. MSS photostats; Chapman, History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                
                     , 517-518, 792; John L. Smith, Indiana Methodism (
                                Valparaiso
                            , Indiana, 1892), 192, 208-209.
               
                     John Bowman, was especially pleased with its stock of fish and
                    claimed that a net set at night would trap one hundred pounds of pike, redhorse, and other species
                    by morning.34
            
            The county itself was organized on January 29, 1830, the same time as 
                        St. Joseph
                    , and vied with the latter in rapidity of development. Early descriptions were sketchy
                    at best, but they conveyed a typical frontier picture of tough prairie sod that required as many as
                    seven yoke of oxen to plow; meals of corn dodgers, boiled squirrel, and sassafras tea; and cattle
                    roaming over the grasslands. Fever and ague were prevalent in the early thirties, but the
                    county's fine oak timber and abundant game helped to compensate for it. With their tall
                    grass and great variety of multi-hued flowers, prairies bordered by thick woods attracted
                    considerable attention. Dotted with clear lakes heavily stocked with fish and filled with countless
                    birds' nests, they were a hunter's paradise.35
            
            That profuse grass, no matter how beautiful, could become instantly dangerous, however, was
                    graphically proved whenever rising winds fanned a small blaze into a "torrent of
                    flame" which swept the horizon in irresistible splendor. Columns of flame towered skyward
                    surmounted by heavy smoke that nearly obscured the heavens. The deafening noise and magnificent
                    spectacle held one observer fascinated despite his fear.36
            
            Although the town of 
                        Elkhart
                     settled rapidly after 1830, it had no Presbyterian minister until July, 1835. Temporal
                    improvements came more quickly, however. Roads in the vicinity were of surprisingly good quality,
                    except in the woods, over which an influx of milling, unorganized settlers poured in confusing
                    array. Yankees, New Yorkers, Englishmen, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    
                    
                        Yahoos
                    , 
                        German Dunkards
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    
                    
                        Buckskins
                    , 
                  
                     34"Northern Indiana in 1829," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, III, 84; F.A. Batty (pub.), Counties of La Grange
                                and Noble, Indiana (Chicago, 1882), part II, 257.
                  
                     35
                            
                                Bartholomew
                            , Pioneer History of 
                                    Elkhart County
                                
                     , 129; Louise Fogle (ed.), "Journal of Ebenezer Mattoon
                            Chamberlain 1832-5," Indiana Magazine of History, XV (1919),
                            255-257; Laws of Indiana, 1829-1830, pp. 28-31.
                  
                     36 Charles C. Chapman (pub.), History of 
                                    Elkhart County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1880), 155-156. 
                                Prairie
                             fires did not instill terror in all settlers. Such tales were "vastly
                            amusing" to some. Unless a violent wind prevailed, such fires could easily be
                            beaten out, or if fed by the wind, they could still be safely evaded. Only in the great
                            marshes did typical descriptions of prairie fires have any validity. Herbert A. Kellar
                            (ed.), Solon Robinson, Pioneer and Agriculturist (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1936), I, 118-119. These volumes are XXI-XXII of the Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916- ).
               
                    
                    
                        Ohio
                     Buckeyes, 
                        Michigan
                     Chegoes, and 
                        Illinois
                     Suckers were all represented, each with their peculiar characteristics. By October,
                    1835, anticipation of an "immense population" was based mainly on the great
                    fertility of the land.37
            
            Southern and eastern parts of 
                        Elkhart
                     were still uncleared in the spring of 1838, but there were an estimated three hundred
                    inhabitants, a small flourmill, and one hotel in the town. The schoolhouse was used for both
                    teaching and religious services. Land lots ranged from fifty to three hundred dollars, but the
                    market was dull. Merchants dispensed whisky by the quart, supposedly for medicinal purposes only.
                    About the same time one tailor charged $1 for making pantaloons, $5 for a
                    frock coat, $1.50 for a vest, and $3.50 to $4 for regular coats. On
                    at least one occasion ten pounds of pork valued at 1.25 were credited against a tailoring bill.38
            
            Cramped quarters characterized the twelve by fifteen-foot log cabin in which the circuit court met at
                            
                  Goshen, Elkhart
                        County
               's other main settlement, in the fall of 1831. A
                    saddler's shop was housed in the same building, and it was no joke to those with court
                    business that they had to go outside to turn around. The jury was sent to an adjacent grove for
                    consideration of a verdict. Contrarily described as possessing no "considerable
                    population" and as a "flourishing new town" in 1833, 
                        Elkhart
                    's pleasant situation on the border of 
                        Elkhart
                        Prairie
                     was agreed upon by all.39
            
            Settlers half a rnile away in 1834 were struck by the strong Methodist foothold in the area, although
                    the barnlike structure in which they worshiped had no underpinning, and animals often disturbed the
                    services. Not for three more years was the first printing equipment for the 
                        Goshen
                    
                    Democrat shipped to 
                        Niles
                     by water from Buffalo, then hauled to 
                        Goshen
                     by wagon. Because of insufficient support, eighteen months were required to print the
                    first volume of the paper.40
            
            
               
                  37 James Chute to Absalom Peters, 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , June 13, 1832; Christopher Cory to Absalom Peters, 
                            Lima
                        , July 8, 1835, A.H.M.S. MSS photostats; Fogle, "Journal of Ebenezer
                        Mattoon Chamberlain," Indiana Magazine of History, XV, 251-252, 254.
               
                  38 Deahl, History of 
                                Elkhart County
                            
                  , 158-159; H. S. K. Bartholomew, Stories and Sketches of 
                                Elkhart County
                            
                   (Nappanee, Indiana, 1936), 264.
               
                  39 Scott, The Indiana Gazetteer, 75-76; Colton, Indiana Delineated, 21; Chapman, History of 
                                Elkhart County
                            
                  , 372-373, 886; James Crawford to Martin M. Post, Delphi, December 12,
                        1832, A.H.M.S. MSS photostats.
               
                  40
                        
                            Bartholomew
                        , Pioneer History of 
                                Elkhart County
                            
                  , 217; Deahl, History of 
                                Elkhart County
                            
                  , 246.
            
            
            By 1840 when the county population had risen to 6,600, Whigs in 
                        Goshen
                     put on a big rally during the presidential election campaign. A Johnny cake sixteen
                    feet long was pulled by two yoke of oxen through stump-littered streets and across sidewalks which
                    were only occasional slabs thrown down where the mud was too deep to wade through. Politics came to
                    the foreground again in 1852 when the closing Whig rally filled the square with partisans. Two large
                    flag poles on Main Street bore Scott and Graham and Pierce and King signs.41
            
            Throughout the forties, the menace of wolves and occasional bears in outlying county areas created
                    fear in isolated settlers' homes and necessitated organized hunts. The profusion of deer
                    was a boon to hunters, who sold their hides and meat for a little over three dollars apiece.42
            
            Such practical problems of subduing the wilderness somewhat obscured concentration on the
                        Elkhart River, but in 1842 the opinion was expressed that the river could
                    easily be made navigable for arks and keelboats from its mouth to three miles above 
                        Goshen
                    . Numerous arks loaded with flour, high-wines,43 and pork had
                    already sailed from 
                        Waterford
                     and 
                        Goshen
                     but experienced great difficulty when they encountered dams and bridges. On one day in
                    1842, a large number of arks laden with twenty-two hundred barrels of flour and nearly one thousand
                    barrels of pork passed through the Misha-waka locks, which had been built several years previously. 
                        Goshen
                     merchants with an important stake in such traffic tore up a new bridge in the river
                    which they felt hindered navigation and threatened to remove all obstructions by force if
                        necessary.44
            
            Not until the spring of 1844 was the first steamboat on the river, probably the
                    "Indiana," welcomed by most of 
                        Elkhart
                    's citizens. Its whistle alarmed the cattle, and the center span of the Main
                    Street bridge had to be removed because of the ship's smokestack. The
                    "Indiana" and successive boats usually had the engine in the stern and covered or
                    exposed paddle wheels on either side. Although they drew only about eighteen inches when loaded,
                    some of the larger boats could not reach 
                        Elkhart
                    . Steamers were towed by three or four 
                  
                     41
                            Eleventh Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , Population, I, 17; 
                                Bartholomew
                            , Stories and Sketches of 
                                    Elkhart County
                                
                     , 37, 68-69, 39-40.
                  
                     42
                            
                                Bartholomew
                            , Stories and Sketches of 
                                    Elkhart County
                                
                     , 10; Chapman, History of 
                                    Elkhart County
                                
                     , 1130-1131.
                  
                     43 Distilled spirits containing a high percentage of alcohol.
                  
                     44 Deahl, History of 
                                    Elkhart County
                                
                     , 196.
               
                     keelboats, but still required the additional help of windlasses
                    on shore in running dangerous riffles or rapids. In April, 1848, for example, an eighty-foot ark
                    carrying a colony to the New Buffalo settlement in 
                        Michigan
                     grounded on a sandbar at 
                        Elkhart
                    . Shippers generally planned on a three-day trip down the river and four or five
                        upstream.45
            
            In 1850 one guidebook stated that about forty thousand barrels of flour were annually exported from 
                        Elkhart County
                    , in the shipment of which the 
                        St. Joseph
                     and Elkhart Rivers undoubtedly played a large role.46 Expanding river traffic was matched by a correspondingly greater population total that
                    reached 20,986 by 1860, which placed 
                        Elkhart County
                     second only to 
                        La Porte
                     in north central Indiana.47
            
            That 
                        St. Joseph
                     and 
                        Elkhart counties
                     entered the sixties with approximately equal populations and the fact that none of the
                    surrounding counties except 
                        Kosciusko
                     not served by an important transportation medium matched their totals indicate that
                    available river facilities in the former were a decisive factor. In addition extensive railroad
                    lines by the fifties and the Michigan Road created strong inducements which nearby counties could
                    not match. Moreover, both 
                        St. Joseph
                     and 
                        Elkhart counties
                     offered a higher percentage of healthy land area than those bordering the Kankakee
                    marshes and the four in the northeastern corner of Indiana. One of the main reasons for example why
                    the Michigan Road was routed through 
                        South Bend
                     rather than the length of 
                        La Porte County
                     was fear of the Kankakee swamps.
            River transportation was not an unmixed blessing, however, to 
                        Elkhart
                     and 
                        St. Joseph counties
                    . In the first place, extensive water travel was limited to the spring and fall and was
                    impossible at least six months of the year. Secondly, farmers found it necessary to haul their
                    produce and manufactured goods to and from the streams, which meant a struggle over primitive trails
                    and roads. Finally, even during periods of navigability, riffles, sand bars, and sudden storms
                    created hazards which often ended in disaster. These disadvantages gave strong impetus to the
                    creation of better overland routes and ultimately a railroad network which guaranteed fulfillment of
                    the most sanguine hopes for the region's growth.
            
               
                  45
                        Ibid., 196-197; Hall, Letters from the West, 322.
               
                  46 Richard S. Fisher, Indiana: In Relation to its Geography,
                            Statistics, Institutions, County Topography, Etc. (
                            New York
                        , 1853), 62.
               
                  47
                        Eleventh Census of the 
                                United States
                            , Population, I, 17.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            From 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                        California
                     in 1849: The Gold Rush Journal of Elijah Bryan Farnham
            
               Edited by Merrill J. Mattes* and Esley J.
                    Kirk**
            The epic of the 
                        California
                     Gold Rush has become firmly implanted among the romantic traditions of the trans–
                        Mississippi
                     West. The historical memory of clear-eyed square-jawed young men and their trains of
                    ox-drawn covered wagons plodding doggedly across hostile prairies, mountains, and deserts toward the
                    setting sun, is certain to stir the blood of those jaded by the mechanical wonders of the
                    mid-twentieth century. In the absence of golden frontiers today, one looks back upon that seemingly
                    romantic era and wishes that he too might be an emigrant bound for 
                        California
                     treasure. Many fail to appreciate the fact that an "emigrant" is
                    "one who migrates from," and that the place of origin may be historically of equal
                    interest with the place of destination. The "Forty-niners" were not Californians,
                    but New Yorkers, Pennsylvanians, Virginians, Ohioans, Indianans, Iowans, and representatives of
                    other states within the 
                        United States
                     of 1849, Easterners all. This fact is underlined by many documented instances wherein
                    the gold seeker shortly returned, disillusioned, to his beloved homeland. There is no way of knowing
                    what proportion of the emigrants so "re-emigrated" but some scholars are beginning
                    to suspect that their numbers were legion, and that historians have overlooked something here. There
                    was, in fact, a Gold Rush in reverse!
            One of the disillusioned was Elijah Bryan Farnham, citizen of Indiana, not related in any way, as far
                    as is known, to the Thomas Jefferson Farnham whose earlier Travels in the Great Western
                        Prairies have become known to historians through publication in Reuben G.
                    Thwaites' Early Western Travel series. The existence of the Elijah Bryan
                    Farnham journal was disclosed to the writer, while Superintendent of 
                  * Merrill J. Mattes is Regional Historian, Region Two, National Park Service, 
                                United States
                             Department of the Interior, with headquarters in 
                                Omaha
                            , 
                                Nebraska
                            .
                  ** Esley J. Kirk, a physician of 
                                Omaha
                            , 
                                Nebraska
                            , is the grandson of Elijah Bryan Farnham.
               
                     Scotts Bluff National Monument in Western 
                        Nebraska
                    , by Mrs. Carrie Bell Kirk, a daughter of the journalist who was engaged in the pleasant
                    pastime of following by automobile the transcontinental route traveled by her father on foot. After
                    an interval of nearly ten years since the discovery of the journal, and one hundred and one years
                    after Farnham's memorable trek, comes this opportunity to publish this valuable addition to
                    the source materials on the Gold Rush.
            Over one hundred overland journals of 1849, either published or in manuscript form in library or
                    family possession, are known to the writer. The Farnham journal, the newest addition to a slowly
                    growing list, is one of the most honest, most faithful, and most revealing of this notable group of
                    documents. Devoid of vain literary flourish or artifice, the obvious trailside production of a man
                    too tired to write gracefully, yet withal observant and intelligent, the Farnham journal is an
                    important chronicle of a major event in America's adolescence.
            Elijah Bryan Farnham was born in 
                        Chenango County
                    , 
                        New York
                    , May 11, 1825, the youngest child and only son of Eli and Amanda Farnham. During his
                    youth the family moved, first to Solsberry, Indiana, later to 
                        Cumberland
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . It is evident from the literary style and penmanship, as well as from certain clues
                    contained in the journal, that Farnham received a good education, including some medical training.
                    Marginal shorthand notes suggest also a career in business college. Little else is known of his
                    boyhood, except that, at the age of eighteen, he enlisted and served in the War with Mexico.
                    Undoubtedly this military experience brought to him a measure of youthful excitement and wanderlust,
                    which well qualified him as a participant in the momentous 
                        California
                     Gold Rush of 1849.
            The end of Farnham's overland diary, in September, 1849, leaves one in a fruitless
                    speculation as to his movements of the next few years. It is possible to surmise that he had only
                    fair success, if any, as a gold miner, and that he returned East before long. Such a conclusion
                    seems warranted from the complete absence of any knowledge as to his subsequent residence in 
                        California
                    , or any evidence of accumulated wealth, coupled with the record of his marriage, in
                    1858, to Ann Brough, which event, according to family tradition, took place back home in 
                        Cumberland
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . Surviving correspondence  enables one to trace the
                    outlines of his later career. During the Civil War he served with Company H, Second Regiment of 
                        Ohio
                    , under Captain Peter Weatherby, having enlisted on October 9, 1861, and being
                    discharged on October 27, 1864. After the war he taught school in 
                        Ohio
                    , later taking up farming in 
                        Greene County
                    , Indiana. Here he died, on December 19, 1898.
            Farnham's family connections are of interest. His mother, Amanda, was the tenth of eleven
                    children of Elijah Richard Bryan, a soldier of the Revolutionary War, related to an ancestor of the
                    noted 
                        Nebraska
                     statesman, William Jennings Bryan. His wife, Ann Brough, who was one of fourteen
                    children, was born in 
                        England
                     in 1838, emigrating to this country with her parents in 1843. She preceded her husband
                    in death by ten years.
            Perhaps the most remarkable aspect of the Farnham family is its longevity. Of the seven children of
                    Elijah and Ann Farnham, all five daughters yet survive, five daughters whose father was an actor in
                    the dramatic overland stampede to 
                        California
                     in 1849. All were born at or near 
                        Stanford
                    , in 
                        Greene County
                    , Indiana. Mary Francis Mood, born in 1865, and Adda Ella Nora Burch, born in 1875,
                    continue to reside in Indiana. Carrie Bell Kirk, born in 1870 and Eva Jane Carter, born in 1873, are
                    now residing in 
                        Nebraska
                    , while Amanda Florence Gracey, born in 1877, is now living in 
                        St. Louis
                    . There are twenty-four surviving grandchildren.
            Only a few scattered recollections of Elijah Farnham are obtainable from the surviving daughters,
                    i.e.: His farm was in a hilly country far from schools, a poor place to raise children. He loved
                    reading and traveling. He was gone from home for extended periods of time, being often involved in
                    trading of distant property. As a Methodist, he was a teetotaler. His family went to church on
                    horseback, the children often riding in rows behind their parents. Before the big open fireplace
                    Farnham would take the children on his knees and bounce them up and down while singing songs or
                    telling them of his experiences. In the usual manner of little girls, it seems that the daughters
                    paid little attention to his tales of travel and war—heroic true stories, which now
                    survive only in the diary and in a few yellowing letters.
            Actually, there are two nearly identical diaries in the handwriting of Elijah Bryan Farnham, in the
                    possession, respectively,  of Dr. Kirk and Mrs. Mood. It seems
                    reasonable to conclude that the former is the original, carried overland, notations being made at
                    the end of each day's journey, while the latter is a rewrite, prepared more leisurely at a
                    later date, with descriptions somewhat more flowery, and some travel data added. The contemporary
                    original is the one herewith published. It is a green leather notebook, with folding cover,
                    measuring four by six inches. The leather is of rather fine grain, but faded, worn and cracked with
                    age. The paper is of excellent quality, ruled in ledger-type horizontal and vertical lines, now
                    quite faint. The script is distinct, though the ink is faded to a brownish color. The 211 pages
                    encompass the period April 19 to September 23, 1949, spent in traveling from Independence, 
                        Missouri
                    , to a point about three hundred miles from 
                        San Francisco
                    . In the second diary Farnham begins his account on April 2, telling of the departure on
                    that date from his parental home in 
                        Cumberland
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , thence to 
                        Zanesville
                    . From this point he traveled by boat down the Ohio River, passing
                    and leaving impressions of Marietta, Portsmouth, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Port Williams, 
                  Louisville, Evansville
               , Paducah, and Cairo. He changed boats at 
                        St. Louis
                    , from there traveling up the Missouri River to Independence.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        April 19th — 49
                        Landed at Independence Mo it is a town of about 1500 inhabitants1
                                    It is a ritch and fine country about here We were here and in the nabourhood until
                                    the 8 of May making preparation for our long journey2 While
                                    staying on the line of the Mo state and Indian teritory we were visited by an Indian
                                    who sold one of our company a stolen horse that was afterwards claimed by a white
                                    man a setler in the nabourhood
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        May the 8th3
                        
                        This morning our train of 8 waggons on the long continuous journey before us we had
                                    29 yoke of cattle in all And our loads was 2500 to a waggon consisting of provisions
                                    for us all besides 
                              
                                 1
                                            
                                                St. Joseph
                                            , Independence, and 
                                                Westport
                                             were the three principal "jumping-off" points
                                            in 1849, their popularity being in the order named. Kanesville or Council
                                            Bluffs in 
                                                Iowa
                                            , opposite present Omaha, was the favorite rallying ground of
                                            the 
                                                Utah
                                            –bound Mormons from 1847 onward, but travel westward
                                            from this point was relatively light in this first gold rush year. 
                                                Nebraska City
                                             and 
                                                Leavenworth
                                             did not come into the limelight as outfitting centers until the
                                            late 1850's.
                              
                                 2 It may be presumed that young Farnham, in the
                                            pattern of the overlanders of 1849, joined up with a group of enthusiastic
                                            neighbors, but at no point does he identify them, individually or in
                                            company.
                              
                                 3 Although grass normally appeared on the prairies by
                                            the first of May, a rough late winter in 1848-1849 delayed its growth and
                                            threw the pioneers of the emigration off balance. Departure dates on record
                                            range from April 16 (William Kelly, An Excursion to 
                                                    California
                                                 Over the 
                                                    Prairie
                                                , Rocky Mountains, and Great Sierra Nevada. With a Stroll
                                                Through the Diggings and Ranches of that Country, 2 vols. 
                                                London
                                            , 1851, I, 50, 342) to June 8 (Sarah Royce, A
                                                Frontier Lady: Recollections of the Gold Rush and Early 
                                                    California
                                                
                                 , 
                                    New
                                                Haven, Connecticut
                                 , 1932, p. 9), while the majority ranged
                                            from May 2 to 22. Thus the Farnham schedule was nearly median.
                           
                                     2 years clothing for each4
                                    This morning saw a company that had buried a husband last night buring the wife this
                                    morning Took the old Santee Fa road5 Saw but one tree in todays
                                    travil pasture here is good and there is a large range of it Made 12 miles and
                                    kamped
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        9th
                        This morning at 7 O C started again over the paraire during the day found one good
                                    spring and found rain water several times in pools went 14 miles camped in sight of
                                    timber
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        10th
                        on the road at 1/2 past 6 Soon passed the habitation of an Indian who had cultivated
                                    fields around them after driving 6 miles came to a squad of indians6 they were painted up highly with red paint and were a hideous ugly wrinkled
                                    dried up dwarfish looking set they had come to the road for the purpose of begging
                                    of the trains The chief had papers of recomindation to show their fidelity towards
                                    the whites The chief offerd us the protection of his tribe if we would give him a
                                    calf we had none to give and thus had to do without the aid of this powerful force
                                    The rest of them begged for liquor tobacko bread meat and even old meat rines The
                                    little boys got a number of 5 cents by shooting and hitting them at the distance of
                                    4 or 5 rods with their arrows We crossed two creeks to day one with verry steep
                                    banks that we had to go upr Passed companies that stoped on
                                    account of the Colery being among them8 Days travil 15 miles
                        
                           
                              4 Here again is an indication that the Farnham party was
                                        an average outfit. A wagon load of 2500 pounds weight is recommended by Joseph
                                        E. Ware, The Emigrants' Guide to 
                                                California
                                            
                               (reprinted from the 1849 edition, 
                                 Princeton, New
                                                Jersey
                              , 1932), 4-10. The principal items consisted
                                        of such staples as flour, bacon, coffee, tea, sugar, saleratus, seasoning, rice,
                                        dried fruit, and lard; firearms and accessories, mining tools, bedding, cooking
                                        utensils, and extra clothes, with a recommended investment of around
                                        $200 per man. See also 
                                            Randolph
                                         B. Marcy, The 
                                                Prairie
                                             Traveler. A Handbook for Overland Expeditions (
                                            New York
                                        , 1859), 30-37. Any superfluous items such as anvils, printing
                                        presses, oak chests, books, and family heirlooms would probably soon litter the
                                        trail side. The "cattle" were oxen, much favored over horses
                                        or mules because of their strength, stamina, and patience. An extra
                                        unanticipated dividend was their edibility, if worse came to worse.
                           
                              5 Westward from Independence the Santa Fe Trail followed
                                        the crest of Blue Ridge, crossing the present 
                                            Missouri
                                        –
                                            Kansas
                                         line near Dallas, and joining the 
                                            Westport
                                         branch near present Olathe. Near present 
                                            Gardner
                                        , 
                                            Kansas
                                        , the road to 
                                            California
                                         veered northwestward to parallel the Kaw or Kansas
                                        River, leaving the Santa Fe Trail to go its own ancient way to the
                                        southwest.
                           
                              6 Possibly Kansa Indians, a once powerful tribe, who were
                                        now reduced to mendicancy.
                           
                              7 Captain Creek and the Wakarusa
                                        River. The crossings lay to the southwest of 
                                            Lawrence
                                        , 
                                            Kansas
                                        .
                           
                              8 Asiastic cholera, brought first to the port of 
                                            New Orleans
                                         and by steamboat to 
                                            St. Louis
                                        , wreaked havoc among the Forty-niners. No effective remedy was
                                        known at the time. Conditions under which the emigrants traveled aggravated the
                                        incidence of the disease, and hasty trailside burials were commonplace. It has
                                        been estimated that five thousand emigrants died from this cause, including
                                        those who succumbed on Missouri River steamboats and at the
                                        border towns: 
                                            Georgia
                                         Willis the Gold-Rush Years," 
                                 
                                                Missouri
                                             Historical Review (
                                            Columbia
                                        , 1906-), XXXVIII (1943-1944), 260-276.
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        11th
                        Saw a wolf for the first time it came up to snuff our vittles while we were at
                                    breakfast.
                        The country here is rolling and presents a butiful scenery The groves of trees along
                                    the ravines between the high raises of table land gives the country here the
                                    aperance of a long continuity of parks exhibited on a grand scale And the continued
                                    succession of table lands one portion exalted above the other with uniform raises
                                    like the steps of stairs look as if it were done by hand for some horticultural
                                    design And one cannot but be deeply impressed by the grand beauty of the scene when
                                    he looks over this until his gase is lost in the dim blue vista of the long extended
                                    range Days travil 18 ms
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        12th
                        The aperence of stone here was a rairity Land less rolling The road good not much cut
                                    up and hard as a pike went 26 miles this day and encamped in 4 m of the
                                        Kansas River
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        13
                        This morning we started at 4 in order to get to the ferry crossed at 10 There is a
                                    smart little town near the crossing9 Then went about 2 miles
                                    came to a stream with periendicular banks10 There were about 60
                                    waggons waiting to cross We camped untill they should cross it was verry slow
                                    crossing the teems has to be rough locked then a rope was fastened on to the hind
                                    end and then by the aid of 20 or 30 men the waggons were eased down It generly took
                                    10 yoke to haul the loads up the oposite bank
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        14th
                        This morning we got up and crossed the creek and as soon as we got across it
                                    commenced raining hard We stoped the train here we tried to make ourselves as
                                    comfortable as we could some by getting in the wagons some under and someby getting
                                    on the lee side of them Overtook the Hebron company and camped with them on
                                    soil-dier cree k D T 10 m
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        15th
                        At 4 this morning a man encamped with us died with the collery he had a wife and
                                    children they went back A young man that was hired to drive team showed much regret
                                    at going But it was a duty he could not neglect 3 of our cattle got away last night
                                    on acount of its having been so dark and raining it was late when we found them the
                                    surface of the prairies to day was low and flat now and then cut up 
                              
                                 9 To judge from mileage figures given, this was Union
                                            Village, near present 
                                                Rossville
                                            , 
                                                Kansas
                                            , composed of a few log buildings housing traders and ferry
                                            operators. This was several miles west of present 
                                                Topeka
                                            , where there was a later crossing of the Kansas
                                            River known as Papin's Ferry.
                              
                                 10 Small but steep-sided tributary Cross Creek proved
                                            to be almost a more formidable obstacle than the big Kansas
                                            River until 1850 when the Potawatomie, somewhat more imaginative
                                            than the Kansa, here erected a toll bridge, one of several such monuments to
                                            their enterprise.
                           
                                     by deep narrow ravienes Camped on the bank of
                                    the vermillion11 D Travil 20 m
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        16th
                        Had to take out our Picks and Spades and fix the road before we could cross the creek
                                    We fastened ropes on to the hind end of the waggons and held them back going down
                                    the bank Trebled teams to pull up the opposite one found some wild onions and had a
                                    fry of them There was a large patches of them in diferent places on the plains D T
                                    22
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        16th
                        We having Broke an axeltree to day were compeld to stop this evening before selecting
                                    our place slept on the wet ground at night
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        17th
                        had the axeltree repared and was on the road at 7 o c had the pleasure of drinking a
                                    cool drink out of a spring that we found by the side of the road After our D J
                                    camped by a butiful stream of water
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        18
                        Was on the road early at noon crossed the big blue12 D T 25m
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        19th
                        Went 22 miles to a runing stream and camped13 the grass is not so
                                    high here as back on the road but finer and of a more nutritious kind
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        20th
                        Sunday lay still
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        21th
                        Went 22 miles and camped by a wet wether stream Saw a bride and groom to day that had
                                    ben tied together this morning Saw timber some distance up the road There was a
                                    considerable wrangling about mess No helping themselves to bread
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        22
                        had a cold morning While eating our noon piece saw Antelopes a loping over the plain
                                    in the evening past the 
                                        Columbus
                                     and Ilaniois company14 that were laying still on
                                    acount of losing thier cattle On the night of the 20th thier cattle that were
                                    correld got frightened at the lightning during a thunder storm and 87 broke out of
                                    which they had recovered but 20
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        23th
                        Crossed Sandy Creek 3 times and then wended our way along 
                              
                                 11 The Red 
                                                Vermillion
                                             is not to be confused with the Black or Big 
                                                Vermillion
                                            , a tributary of the Big Blue River, which Farnham crossed two
                                            days later without comment. After crossing the Red 
                                                Vermillion
                                             the Trail swerved from its westward course along the north bank
                                            of the 
                                                Kansas
                                            , to climb northwestward toward the Platte River.
                              
                                 12 Just beyond the crossing of the Big Blue, west of 
                                                Marysville
                                            , 
                                                Kansas
                                            , was the junction with the "St. Jo road,"
                                            used by the respectable numbers of emigrants who chose 
                                    St. Joseph, Missouri
                                 , as their assembly point. This town
                                            was higher on the 
                                                Missouri
                                             and somewhat farther west than Independence, so that there was
                                            an appreciable saving in land miles. For accounts of this first of numerous
                                            "cut-offs" in the 
                                                California
                                             Trail, see 
                                                Georgia
                                             Willis Read and Ruth Gaines (eds.), Gold Rush: The
                                                Journals, Drawings, and Other Papers of J. Golds-borough Bruff, Captain, 
                                                    Washington City
                                                 and 
                                                    California
                                                 Mining Association, April 2, 1849-July 20, 1851 (
                                                New York
                                            , 1949), and David M. Potter (ed.), Trail to 
                                                    California
                                                : The Overland Journal of Vincent Geiger and Wakeman
                                            Bryarly (
                                    New Haven,
                                                    Connecticut
                                 ,
                                            1945), 76-80.
                              
                                 13 Rock Creek, in 
                                                Jefferson County
                                            , 
                                                Nebraska
                                            . The later stage station here was the scene of the historic and
                                            bloody encounter between Wild Bill Hickok and "the McCanles
                                            gang."
                              
                                 14 In the interests of mutual protection, the
                                            covered-wagon emigrants traveled in large trains, democratically organized
                                            as to leadership, schedules, rations, guard duty, etc. Although some of
                                            these trains were improvised at the border towns, many were conceived back
                                            home— Indiana, 
                                    Iowa, Pennsylvania,
                                                    Virginia
                                 , or
                                            wherever—and began the trek with intact and homogeneous units,
                                            with banners proclaiming their origin.
                           
                                     the big blue15 Saw an
                                    indian village at a distance Here we first see prickly pears
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        24th
                        had two heavy showers today one with hail once lightening struck near us Went 15
                                    miles and stoped. It rained all night
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        25
                        the wind blew the fine rain in our faces the whole day left the big blue at noon At
                                    night camped by the stream of pools16
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        26th
                        at 4 O-c P.M. Came into the Valley of the Piatt it is about 6 miles wide and
                                    perfectly level There was a number of encampments in various parts The plain was
                                    every where spotted by the numerous herds of cattle a grazing on the luxurient
                                grass
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        27th
                        Sunday This morning as we wended our way up the river we saw a great many teams that
                                    had stoped and the companies Were lightning thier waggons by throwing out some of
                                    thier load We saw large piles of bacon that had been thrown out from the overloded
                                    teams Some of the companies when they are out of wood make use of this bacon for
                                    fuil We stoped and camped at noon No sooner had we camped than some were making
                                    ready for lighting up We had some of the bread taking out of the boxes and put in
                                    sacks and thus got rid of a good deal of weight It was imposible to keep the bread
                                    whole or clean this way Yet we were forced to submit to this inconvenience and
                                    econimise in this way and relieve our cattle of every pound that we could for the
                                    roads that had heretofore been good when on the levil were here Sandy and the
                                    waggons pulled hard over them and from the information that we could get from guides
                                    They were so for some ways ahead We also throwed some beans out Some of the company
                                    that had some rough boxes Tried to get up an excitement to have all the trunks
                                    thrown away But as it was alowed by the constitution for every one to have a light
                                    trunk and as the majority had articles that they wished to keep secure those
                                    considerate schemers could not succeed Days T 8 m
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        28th
                        This morning after going 3 miles came to Ft Carney or Charles17
                                    
                              
                                 15 Farnham apparently didn't know it, but he
                                            had long since left the Big Blue behind and had since been following the
                                            pleasant valley of the Little Blue, destined to become one of the first
                                            outposts of 
                                                Nebraska
                                             settlement, which the Sioux ferociously attacked in 1864.
                              
                                 16 The emigrants saw the last of the Kansas
                                                River Basin at the head of Thirty-two Mile Creek. This is
                                            possibly identical with Farn-ham's "Stream of
                                            Pools." In the wide valley of the lazy, shallow braided Platte, the 
                                                Oregon
                                            –
                                                California
                                             Trail was joined by the 
                                                Nebraska City
                                             Road, which boomed in the 
                                                Colorado
                                             gold rush of 1859.
                              
                                 17 Fort Kearny (originally Fort Childs), named for
                                            General Stephen Watts Kearny, was established in 1848 by a company of
                                            Mounted Riflemen, the first in a series of forts designed to protect
                                            overland travel, to which next year would be added Forts Laramie and Hall.
                                            It was an unhandsome, squalid affair, built first of sod, later of
                                            cottonwood logs. In 1849 the commander was Captain Benjamin L. E.
                                            Bonneville, famed for his explorations in the Far West in 1832-1835,
                                            immortalized by the pen of 
                                                Washington
                                             Irving: The Rocky Mountains: or, Scenes,
                                                Incidents, and Adventures in the Far West; Digested from the Journal of
                                                Captain B. L. E. Bonneville (2 vols., 
                                                Philadelphia
                                            , 1837). Abandoned in 1871, the fort stood about seven miles
                                            southeast of modern 
                                                Kearny
                                            , 
                                                Nebraska
                                            , south of Platte River. The site, now a 
                                                Nebraska
                                             State Park, is marked by earth disturbances and ancient
                                            cottonwoods. See Lillian M. Willman, "The History of Fort
                                            Kearny," 
                                                Nebraska
                                             State Historical Society Publications
                                            (Lincoln, 1885-), XXI (1930), 215-315, and Lyle E. Mantor, "Fort
                                            Kearny and the Westward Movement," 
                                    
                                                    Nebraska
                                                 History (Lincoln, 1918-), XXIX (1948), 175-207.
                           
                                     This is but a small Station the houses here are
                                    but one story high and built of mud these together with several tents compose the
                                    village the fort is of mud also We tried to sell some of our ammunition here but
                                    could sell nothing but a small portion of our lead at half what it cost in St Louis
                                    Powder we could get nothing for Went 8 miles further and camped
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        29th
                        Got an early start The broad river on our right the Sand hill bluffs on our left The
                                    bluffs and river run parald to one another for the whole way being only 5 or 6 miles
                                    apart The soil here is Sandy but black and ritch There are three trails here and
                                    these are filled with waggons for as far as the eye can see We here learnt that 2822
                                    waggons were ahead of us on the 27th18 saw three men start back
                                    to the States with thier knapsaks on thier backs The men generly bid them good Speed
                                    as they went past There was also two waggons going back to the States belonging to
                                    an old man and his two sons The old man had broken one of his legs This accident
                                    compeld them to turn back much against thier will one of the boys was so disapointed
                                    that he could not surpress his tears even when he went past us Thier ambition had
                                    received a severe check This night camped on the river bank among a huddle of other
                                    camps Here the plain is everywhere spotted with tents and numerous herd of cattle
                                    and horses are grasing on its luxur-ient pasture It is a fine sight to see so many
                                    beings enlivening these dull monotinous plains We failed of getting wood and had to
                                    burn bufalo chips to do our cooking They did not make a bad fire either19 The river banks here are so low that to look at the river
                                    when aways from it it looks the highest D.T. 20 m
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        30th
                        This morning got out of a wet pile of blankets for it had been raining in the night
                                    and we were late starting on acount of its raining So this morning it was 10 0 clock
                                    before we were under way We went 
                              
                                 18 The Farnham party rode the crest of the migration
                                            wave. "Pawnee," a correspondent of the 
                                    
                                                    Missouri
                                                 Republican, on June 21 reported from Fort Kearny that,
                                            on May 29, 381 wagons; 28th, 460 passed the post—3739 in all to
                                            date, for 
                                                California
                                            ." By June 6, "emigrant wagons were rapidly
                                            diminishing in number. Up to last evening, 4804 has passed the fort,
                                            exclusive of 250 government wagons. More to come would make a total of more
                                            than 5000." Another correspondent observer at Fort Laramie counted
                                            5,500 wagons there up to July 21 and calculated an average of 3 1/2 people
                                            per wagon: Albert Watkins (ed.), Publications of the 
                                                    Nebraska
                                                 State Historical Society, XX (1922), 201-203. On the
                                            basis of such eyewitness accounts, it appears that the number of
                                            Forty-niners who went overland by the Central Route would not have exceeded
                                            25,000; although historical estimates have ranged up to 50,000. See Stewart
                                            Edward White, The Forty-Niners: A Chronicle of the 
                                                    California
                                                 Trail and El Dorado (
                                    New Haven, Connecticut
                                 , 1921); Archer Butler Hulbert, Forty-Niners: The Chronicle of the 
                                                    California
                                                 Trail (
                                                New York
                                            , 1931); and Howard R. Driggs, Westward
                                            America, with water color paintings by William H. Jackson (
                                                Philadelphia
                                            , 1942).
                              
                                 19 Without the dried buffalo dung which littered the
                                            plains, camp cooks would have been in sore straits on the treeless plains.
                                            The virtues of the pungent "bois de vache," a standard
                                            fuel for the nomadic Sioux, were soon discovered by the fur trappers, the
                                            pioneers of the Great Platte Route.
                           
                                     through a town of prairy dogs There was a tract
                                    of ground a mile square in extent crowded full of oval mud houses and populated by
                                    this canine race These little vilagers will set for hours on thier houses a barking
                                    at passer by and at the near approach of any person will jump to thier holes that
                                    lead into the top of thier dwellings Some of our men shot a few of these saucy
                                    villagers as they were on top of thier houses but did not get many after killing
                                    them for the others would come out and drag them in These animals are about half as
                                    large as an oppossum and good deal of the same build and of a reddish brown
                                        colour20 We sold one of our horses to day This night we
                                    camped where there was plenty of wood and water done a good deal of cooking so as to
                                    be prepared for immergences ahead D.T. 15 m
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        31th
                        This morning started off in a drizzling rain which continued without cessasion for
                                    the whole day this was mixed with sleet and the wind blew it hard in our faces the
                                    road was muddy and hard to pull over We haulled our wood from the last stopping
                                    place if we had not of took this precaution we should have been out of fires for wet
                                    buffalo chips are a hard article to burn and even in dry wether this is the only
                                    combustible material in these parts D T 20m
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        June the 1st
                        Today met a train of waggons loaded with buffalo skins from Ft Larimy21 Three antelope were brought into camp this evening on which we made
                                    quite a feast
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        June 2nd
                        Still kept on our river course The bluffs that still run paralell to the river are
                                    here on fire The islands in the river are also on fire22
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        3rd
                        lay by this night we saw the islands of the river on fire it showed fine
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        4th
                        A days rest so refreshed our cattle that they traveled off quite nimbly The road in
                                    some places approached within a few rods of the 
                              
                                 20 A full account of the historic prairie dog, a
                                            quaint phenomenon of Plains travel, is given in Theodore H. Scheffer,
                                            "Historical Encounter and Accounts of the Plains Prairie
                                            Dog," 
                                    
                                                    Kansas
                                                 Historical Quarterly (
                                                Topeka
                                            , 1931-), XIII (1944-1945), 527-537.
                              
                                 21 Fort Laramie, the remains of which are now
                                            preserved as a national monument twenty miles west of Torrington in 
                                                Goshen County
                                            , Wyoming, would become a military post soon after another
                                            company of Mounted Riflemen, within a day's march of the Farnham
                                            train, arrived at that point. At the moment, however, it was an outpost of
                                            the American Fur Company, which once specialized in mountain beaver trapped
                                            by their own help, now bartered with the Plains tribes for tanned buffalo
                                            robes. Swarthy of mien, riding aperch their rough, humpbacked carts, the
                                            caravaneers, usually French-Canadians or half-breeds, gave the emigrants
                                            quite a romantic jolt. This particular train, noted by other diarists, may
                                            have included Andrew Drips, old-time mountain man and manager of the
                                            Company's interest at Fort Laramie, who is known to have hastened
                                            back to headquarters at 
                                                St. Louis
                                             about this time knowing that big changes were in the wind and
                                            anxious for instructions.
                              
                                 22
                                            
                                                Prairie
                                             fires were deliberately set by the Indians as an auxiliary in
                                            the pursuit of game or, in some cases, to spite the invading white man. Just
                                            what was afoot here is not clear. Also puzzling is the apparent extent of
                                            these fires, notwithstanding the fact, substantiated by other journals, that
                                            the countryside had been recently drenched by rain.
                           
                                     bluffs These bluffs are mere sand piles The
                                    soil here is poor and sandy There was a herd of thousands of Buffalo by those that
                                    went off the road to hunt Went 20 miles Grass not so plenty as heretofore
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        5th
                        About 10 O.C. came to the Piatt where we had to cross23 The river
                                    here at the ford is about 3/4 of a mile across It mite seem like a somewhat
                                    venturesome undertaking to attempt fording a wide river like this where the waters
                                    are so muddy that one cannot see the bottom of the stream But we drove our teams
                                    through waded ourselves and found the water to be but 3 1/2 feet in the deepest
                                    place We had to exert ourselves in wading to keep up with our cattle when pulling so
                                    as to hurry them and not alow them to stop if they had we should of been stuck The
                                    bottom is composed of quicksand and the waggons are constantly settling down This
                                    settling shakes the waggons awfully The shaking would not be more over a rough rocky
                                    road There was a large concorse of trains on each bank and a long line of waggons
                                    crossing with us There was a great many Sioux Indians here at the ford24 These are the first of this tribe that we have seen They are a proud
                                    noble looking race of good proportion tall strong athletic and good horsemen They
                                    dressed with little clothing The only clothes that most of them had was a
                                    breechcloth over thier hips. They wore a great many orniments the tusks of animals
                                    pearls and strings of beads They ornimented thier mocasins with beads One Indian
                                    prided himself in having about a dozen Pawnee scalps a wearing over his shoulders
                                    One of these nakedly dessed Indians took quite a fancy to one of the women that was
                                    traveling in company with us and offered her husband before her face 3 horses for
                                    her She must of felt herself highly flatterd In chilly wether these Indians wrap
                                    buffalo hides around them this serves also for bedcloths The flesh part they
                                    orniment with different figures by paint This night camped in a mile of thier grand
                                    village Men Squaws and children came to our camp tonight it was interesting to them
                                    to observe our buisy doings The meat of two buffaloe were brought in off which we
                                    made a hearty meal
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        6th
                        This morning We were troubled in getting started early on account of some cattle
                                    having run over the bluffs So as to take us some time 
                              
                                 23 Farnham had passed present Grand Island, traveling
                                            across the river from present U. S. Highway No. 30, and had now to cross the
                                            South Platte. There were supposedly two major crossings of this stream. From
                                            the "Upper 
                                                California
                                             Crossing," near present 
                                                Julesburg
                                            , 
                                                Colorado
                                            , the Trail meandered northward to Courthouse Rock, noted Trail
                                            landmark near present 
                                                Bridgeport
                                            , 
                                                Nebraska
                                            . The "Lower 
                                                California
                                             Crossing" was near present 
                                                Brule
                                            , 
                                                Nebraska
                                            , and from here the Trail went northwest over the divide to Ash
                                            Hollow, the descent into which Francis Parkman so vividly described in 1846
                                            (Mason Wade, ed., The Journals of Francis Parkman, 2
                                            vols., 
                                                New York
                                            , 1947, p. 436). To judge from mileage estimates, however, it
                                            appears that Farnham describes a third crossing of the South Platte, which
                                            would be just above the great fork near the site of present 
                                                North Platte
                                            , 
                                                Nebraska
                                            .
                              
                                 24 Brule and Ogalala bands of the Teton Dakota Sioux
                                            had at this time pre-empted the Platte Valley, a choice
                                            haunt of the buffalo. They were generally peaceable until 1854 when a
                                            company of soldiers from Fort Laramie, under a Lieutenant Grattan, were
                                            slaughtered eight miles west of that fort when rashly attempting to arrest a
                                            tribesman for the alleged theft of a stray Mormon cow.
                           
                                     to find them It commenced raining as we got
                                    started We went through the indian village of wigwams This has a population of about
                                    2000 souls Their tents are made of dressed bufaloe skins sewed together are round in
                                    shape with a pole passing through the top The Indians old and young stood outside of
                                    thier tents watching the long line of emigrant waggons that were a passing through
                                    thier village They evidently are much wonder struck at the crowds agoing past on
                                    these plains that never was untill late years ever disturbed by the rumbling of a
                                    waggon wheel That seldom witnessed the apperense of a white man to disture the
                                    monotony of this natural wild over which such swarms are now daily passing At this
                                    time there was a solid train 5 or 6 miles in length and was over two hours a passing
                                    through They took a great fancy to the women that were in some of the waggons They
                                    do not understand the value of money coin and would as leve have some trinket of
                                    equal brightness They highly esteemed our provisions and would give a pair of
                                    mocicens for 2 buisket or a robe for 3 or 4 pts of beans We left the south fork here
                                    at this village and went across the bluffs to the north fork camped on the banks of
                                    this stream
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        7th and 8th
                        We kept up the river sometimes over the bluffs but most of the time over the levil
                                    plane About the middle of the day of the 8 On the bluffs facing the river found some
                                    ash trees growing Wild current and rose bushes were growing also After this came to
                                    a range of rocky bluffs of quite a rugged like apperence There was good springs of
                                    cool water running from the foot of these Ceader bushes grew upon the sides There
                                    was no scarcity of rattle snakes among the rocks I saw 3 of enormous size about to
                                    pitch a me once as I got so as I could look over onto the top of a rock that I had
                                    been climing I jumped down quick We got over the bluff into ash hollow25 it is so named from the quanitity of ash trees that grow here This is
                                    the best looking place that we have seen for some time it is cool shady looking
                                    place fragrant with different kinds of flowers of which roses and jasamine are the
                                    principle Grape vines and current bushes are plenteous We had to travil late tonight
                                    for when we got out of onto the plain was verry narrow and a perpindicular rock
                                    hemed it in on the side oposite the river and when we did stop we found verry poor
                                    grass
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        9th
                        This morning we went on untill 8 o c and then stopped to graze our cattle After we
                                    got started again picked up a man belonging to one of the trains ahead that had shot
                                    himself with a pistle while loading it the ball went through the calf of his leg As
                                    soon as we camped to night a thunder shower came pouring down upon us
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        10th
                        resumed our journey We are now going through an alkali region it is said to travil
                                    cattle through this when wet will cause thier hoofs to come off Found musquitose
                                    plenty where we camped to night
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        11th
                        Started off lively this morning and was not crowded much with other trains there
                                    being but few in sight Saw Chimney and Court house 
                              
                                 25 After traversing the section of the North
                                                Platte River Valley now inundated by Lake McConaughey, behind
                                            the giant Kingsley Dam, the Trail apparently climbed back up on the plateau,
                                            then redescended into the valley at Ash Hollow. This is approximately the
                                            route now used by U.S. Highway No. 26.
                           
                                     rock this forenoon at a distance ahead of us
                                    Camped oposite court house rock tonight it rained again
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        12th
                        Started again over the sandy road and went to opposite Chimney rock and camped26 These two aforenamed rocks are thus named on acount of the
                                    one resembling a court house the other for its resemblence of a hugh chimney such as
                                    is seen at a steam factory This is about 200 feet high but the dirt at its base show
                                    that it has been much higher it is split at the top and looks so that now it might
                                    fall apart it is composed of hard baked dirt insted of rock The action of the water
                                    on the hard clay bluffs that lay in the distance have wrought them into curious
                                    shapes Fortresses with regular bastions castles with thier doams porticoes doors
                                    windows houses with roofs and cornised churches with thier steeples and spires then
                                    the bluffs seemed to raise perpendicularly in a cimicurcular form around at the back
                                    of these So as to look like a regular built wall partly encompassing them To look at
                                    this makes one almost imagine that he is beholding an ancient city partly gone to
                                    ruin We here burned the last wood that we had with us This we had carried in our
                                    waggons from ash hollow Two antelopes were killed this forenoon To night had a hevy
                                    shower of rain acompanied with hail
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        13th
                        It began to rain as we started it was bothersome getting over some of the miry slues
                                    Scots bluffs were ahead of us These bluffs are so called from the fact of a party of
                                    fur traders headed by a man of the name of Scot set him out on the bank of the river
                                    and left him to his fate the next spring his body was found high on the bluffs by
                                    another party of traders and by his clothing he was identified27
                        
                        Here the bluffs were curiously shaped here the numerous ranges of bare clayey bluffs
                                    rising the other side of a range of grassy bluffs so close as to seem to be set on
                                    the top of them each range raising more high the further they were off these were
                                    wrought by the raines So as to have the apperence of a city on a hill And the deep
                                    cut ravines that run down the sides assumed the apperence of so many cross streets
                                    and gave it a compact and regular apperence Surely this is one of 
                              
                                 26 Courthouse Rock and Chimney Rock, both mentioned by
                                            almost all overland trail diarists, were a welcome relief to travelers who
                                            had seen nothing but the low, monotonous Platte for the past several days.
                                            They were among the advance guard of a range of picturesque hills, today
                                            called the Wildcat Hills, which extend for over forty miles along the south
                                            bank of the North Platte. Farnham echoes most of his contemporaries in
                                            giving free rein to his imagination in describing the freakish formations.
                              
                                 27 At least forty horrendous versions of
                                            Scott's death, no two exactly alike, appear in trail journals,
                                            beginning with the fur trader Warren A. Ferris in 1830. Among the few
                                            certain facts are that (1) Hiram Scott was a clerk in the employ of William
                                            Ashley; (2) his death occurred in this vicinity in the autumn of 1828 under
                                            circumstances of abandonment; and (3) his remains were discovered in 1829 by
                                            fur traders returning to the mountains, who thereupon gave Scotts Bluff its
                                            name. See Merrill J. Mattes, "Hiram Scott, Fur Trader,"
                                                
                                    
                                                    Nebraska
                                                 History, XXVI (1945), 127-162. At present Scotts Bluff
                                            National Monument there is a paved road to the summit of the historic
                                            landmark, and at its base, an excellent 
                                                Oregon
                                            –
                                                California
                                             Trail museum. The present spelling of the bluff should not be
                                            confused with that of "Scottsbluff," the largest city in
                                            western 
                                                Nebraska
                                            , which lies on the north bank opposite.
                           
                                     natures greatest pranks of castle building
                                    Stoped to night in a plain surrounded on all sides by bluffs On the bank of a spring
                                    run Wood was procured by going about 3 miles to the bluffs and feched to camp on the
                                    horses
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        14th
                        We started at sunrise Went 3 miles came to a Spring of water of icy coldness here the
                                    water driped out of the perpendicular side of a ravine and fell into a natural basin
                                    formed beneath The water was so good that we almost disipated upon it This is shaded
                                    with trees and bushes This is the first time that we have been near wood with our
                                    waggons since we left ash hollow 6 days ago28 In the afternoon
                                    crossed two streams one called horsecreek29 After that went to
                                    where the road come to the river and pitched our tents Major Sandersons command were
                                    camped near us30
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        15th
                        The Government train was before us We were kept back by thier slow travling Got ahead
                                    of them when they nooned This afternoon broke a wheel to one of the waggons got it
                                    replaced by a wheel of a waggon that was left on the road Camped on the bank of the
                                    river 8 miles from Ft. Laramie found plenty of drift wood on the bank
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        16th
                        Started at sunrise Came to Laramy Creek one mile from the fort and that we had to
                                    ford This is a wide clear swift running stream and so deep that we had to block up
                                    our waggon beds in order to keep our provisions dry in crossing We did not cross
                                    till we watched while other trains that had got here earlier had to take thier turn
                                    And there was quite a number Our hearts were light in anticipation of getting to the
                                    fort There among this multitude all was excitement to get across Something was ahead
                                    It seemed like a galy day as a convention 4 of July or some such time was at hand to
                                    which we were agoing to have a recreation Then the sound of the cannon that was
                                    fired to greet the arrivle of Major Sanderson came abooming from the fort the hills
                                    around echoed the report one from another and it dwelt long among them before it
                                    died away It was soul stirring their successive reports in this expansive wild
                        Ft Laramy is a post established for the mere purpose of carrying on trade with the
                                    indians it appears that some seasons there is a good deal of trade carried on here
                                    We had met two trains loaded with buffaloe skins and furs on our way We found this
                                    to be a place of no verry 
                              
                                 28 This was Robidoux Pass, one of the most celebrated
                                            camp sites on the 
                                                California
                                             Trail. It is surprising that Farnham fails to mention the
                                            French squawman and trader who lived here, and who is spoken of by most of
                                            the Forty-niners. See Merrill J. Mattes, "Robidoux's
                                            Trading Post at ‘Scott's Bluffs,’ and the 
                                                California
                                             Gold Rush," 
                                    
                                                    Nebraska
                                                 History, XXX (1949), 95-138. From the summit of
                                            Robidoux Pass, if atmospheric conditions were favorable, the emigrants
                                            obtained their first intimation of the rugged terrain ahead, in the shape of
                                            Laramie Peak, 100 miles to the west.
                              
                                 29 In two years the mouth of Horse Creek, one of the
                                            principal tributaries of the North Platte, would become the setting of the
                                            great treaty council of the Plains Indians, which resulted in the
                                            far-reaching Fort Laramie Treaty of 1851.
                              
                                 30 Major Winslow F. Sanderson, a hero of the Mexican
                                            War, was in charge of the company of the regiment of Mounted Riflemen,
                                            destination Fort Laramie. Other companies, under Colonel Loring, were a few
                                            days behind, destination Fort Hall.
                           
                                     imposing apperence It is a structure made out
                                    of A dogies or sun dried bricks This is so built as to form a square court in its
                                    center The doors to each seperate room opens on the side of the court or yard There
                                    are two large doors sufficiently big to admit a waggon These are on two opposite
                                    sides and are the entrences into the fort The cannon that we heard firing is the
                                    only piece belonging here but is small and light and can easily be run from one door
                                    to the other It is impossible for emigrants to sell any thing here that they would
                                    wish to get rid of there have been too many hevy loaded teams here before this And
                                    these men at the fort will take nothing unless it is given to them And yet for
                                    things that they have to sell and which emigrant buy they ask a high price vinegar
                                    they sold at 25 cents a pt The inhabitants of this fort consist at this time of
                                    about 18 or 20 traders and trappers regular old hosses as they termed themselves
                                    Some of these have squaw wives living with them here at the fort and are a rough
                                    outlaw dish whisky drinking looking set having neither the affections or desires of
                                    more civilized men Major Sanderson is to take possession of the fort with his
                                    command and thus turn it into a military post31 One stage of our
                                    long journey is now performed The wide plain on the eastern side of the rocky
                                    mountains have been crossed one of its snow capped peaks we saw two days since This
                                    is Larmies peak It appears as if it were yet 100 miles off But we are at the base of
                                    the lower ranges and our next journeying will be among them In our journeying over
                                    the plains we have the most of the time had good road be shure we had some bad
                                    places in crossing streams But could it it be supposed that a natural road 700 miles
                                    in length would be free of them The places where we had so much dificulty in goin
                                    down and up banks and over streams could have been made convieniently posible had a
                                    little labour been bestowed upon them But every party would go over a bad place
                                    without trying to make it better and a party when they would get over would leave
                                    the others to do the same Our frequent hard rains sometimes made the roads mudy but
                                    in the aggrate I think that they helped the road in more times than they injured it
                                    Where the roads were sandy the rains helped to settle them and made them hard and
                                    the roads were soon dry after a rain We had been a month and 8 days from the misouri
                                    line a coming here Thus averaging about 18 miles a day For the whole way since we
                                    started we have never lacked for company At times there were at times 5 or 6 hundred
                                    waggons in one unbroken string These waggons were each drawn by from 3 to 5 yoke of
                                    cattle 
                              
                                 31 Transfer of the fort from the American Fur Company
                                            to the 
                                                United States
                                             was formally effected on June 26 after negotiations between
                                            Bruce Husbands and Lieutenant Daniel Woodbury. The adobe pile, purchased for
                                            $4,000, soon deteriorated, but work was begun at once on several
                                            new buildings, two of which—an adobe-lined frame officers
                                            quarters called "Old Bedlam" and the adobe
                                            sutler's store—survive today as the most notable
                                            features of Fort Laramie National Monument. See LeRoy R. Hafen and Francis
                                            M. Young, Fort Laramie and the Pageant of the West,
                                            1834-1890 (
                                                Glendale
                                            , 
                                                California
                                            , 1938); Raymond W. Settle (ed.), The March of the
                                                Mounted Riflemen (
                                                Glendale
                                            , 
                                                California
                                            , 1940); and Merrill J. Mattes, Fort Laramie and
                                                the Forty-Niners, a booklet published by the Rocky Mountain Nature
                                            Association, Estes Park, 
                                                Colorado
                                            , 1949.
                           
                                     The mule and horse waggons were drawn by two
                                    spans each sometimes by 3 These teams hauled baggage for between 2 and 3 thousand
                                    people In fact the teams were so thick in many places as to considerbly retard each
                                    others progress The collery has been among the trains that were in company with us
                                    Ever since we started untill the 2 last days yet there has been none died out of our
                                    company from it In some it has raged fearfully A great many hours of the day we
                                    could see companies stoped on the side of the road to burry thier dead We pased one
                                    grave with 3 buried in it We could hear of it prevaling to a more alarming extent in
                                    companies that were further back on the road than in those that were with us There
                                    have been a great many acidents hapend by foolishly handling guns and pistoles And
                                    putting loaded guns in waggons has been a great source of mischief by this A great
                                    many have been killed and others seriously wounded The most of the water that we
                                    have used has been bad Sometimes we have come across good springs or runs of water
                                    but the most of the water has been out of pools of rain water or out of the mudy
                                    waters of the Piatt We have generally found plenty of grass for our cattle After
                                    stopping and grazing our cattle We would secure them at night by forming a yard or
                                    enclosure by driving our waggons around in a circle This enclosure we called a
                                    corell A company from Hebron traviled with us most of the way and joined with us in
                                    making our corell Thier waggons added to the number of waggons So in company we had
                                    2 (companies) to form with Each company also sent out an equal number of men to
                                    guard the cattle The tribes of Indians that we saw were Shawnee Caw Pottawotamies
                                    and the Sioux We passed the territory of the Pawees and one or two other tribes
                                    without seeing an Indian The fear of the Calvary kept a good many of them off The
                                    sight of game was not as frequent as we were led to expect from the reports of other
                                    former travelers The immense throng of emigrants kept the game scared off the
                                road
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        17th
                        This day we lay by and while we were here we had the tires to our waggons cut and
                                    reset They charged us here 3 dollars for each tire that they reset We managed here
                                    to again lighten up to 150 pounds from each waggon 1200 in all One of our men took a
                                    faint spell while walking about the Fort D and myself took him into the avenue of
                                    the Fort where there was a shade and he soon recoverd The weather was sultry hot I
                                    saw a man that was wounded by a comrad The man that committed the accident was
                                    fixing at the tube of his gun and thus caused it to go off into the leg of this man
                                    that was now suffering at the fort The man that was thus shot has been deserted by
                                    all his company save one even the man that shot him deserted him and not being
                                    satisfied with deserting him stole one of his blankets This is a human exception to
                                    nature here unmercifuly selfish and indifferent to the wants of others This
                                    suffering man was laying on a frame of cross sticks over which his blanket was
                                    spread Another man that was sick and reduced to a mere living frame was laying in a
                                    waggon near the fort his entire company had deserted him They had left him however
                                    the waggon that he lay in provishions two barels of liquor These they could not take
                                    along with them very plentifully supplied with drink  but scarce of attendents Now the government train is
                                    here men that are thus left may be taken care of
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        18th
                        at 11 O.C. this day we again resumed our onward journey and going 14 miles over bald
                                    hills we came to a warm spring and camped for the night32
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        19th
                        Our travils to day was over hills finely timbered with pine There was a prominent
                                    mark near the road dissignated as Porters rock It was about 15 feet high and the
                                    sides were marked with the names of emigrants that have passed33
                                    The timber on bitter creek34 was all dead over acers of ground
                                    The emigrants have lightened up here to a pro-digeous extent Flower beans and bacon
                                    lay in large piles over the recently deserted camp grounds Nor was this all tools of
                                    every description for farming mining or mecanical purposes lead and tobacco were
                                    thrown away in quantities A number of waggons were left deserted on the road side
                                    Pased a butiful spring that lay off to the right of the road The last time that we
                                    crossed bitter creek we cooled and filled our water casks And camped about 3 miles
                                    further on This we did to get good grass
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        20th
                        Started and went to Horse Shoe creek35 where we nooned There was
                                    quite a steep desent between this creek and the last The hills here look quite
                                    romantick when on the top of one we could look over a great many pine covered hill
                                    at one gaze There is a spring of water here that is verry nasty tasted water Horse
                                    Shoe creek is a strong running stream of clear cool water and runs off Laramie peak
                                    that here is in so close proxemity that we now distinguish the trees growing upon it
                                    This day also saw deal of thrown away property
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        21th
                        We went on assending and desending among the black hills We nooned on La Banta
                                        Creek36 a stream 2 rods wide by 2 feet deep in the afternoon
                                    went 4 or 5 miles through hills of a Spanish brown coloured earth The banks of a
                                    still dity? had quite bold looking red rocks While agoing through this region every
                                    thing except this red earth looked green We found a camping ground of tolerble good
                                    pasture but had to lug water a good ways
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        22th
                        This morning went 8 miles to the Prela river
                           37 This was about 3 rods wide by 2 ft deep To day a Buffaloe was killed and
                                    brought in and this night 
                              
                                 32 Warm Spring, opposite present Guernsey, Wyoming,
                                            was another camp site of exceptional merit. From Fort Laramie to the
                                            vicinity of present Casper, Wyoming, the Trail kept some distance away from
                                            the river.
                              
                                 33 This answers to the description of Register Cliff,
                                            still covered with names and protected by a mesh fence. There is a
                                            discrepancy here though, for Register Cliff is ahead of Warm Spring.
                              
                                 34 Bitter Cottonwood Creek.
                              
                                 35 Horseshoe Creek, just below Glendo, was once the
                                            setting of the division headquarters of the overland stage line operated by
                                            the notorious Jack Slade.
                              
                                 36 La Bonte Creek, debouching opposite modern Douglas,
                                            Wyoming, and named for an obscure fur trapper, was another stage station
                                            site of the 1860's.
                              
                                 37 La Prelle Creek marked the end of the sharp, flinty
                                            passage around the Laramie Peak foothills.
                           
                                     we had a hearty feasting on fresh meat This
                                    night we had company a squad of adventurers that had been to Laramies peak and
                                    fasted 2 days We prepared to feast them well
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        23d
                        This d after going 11 miles camped 1 1/2 miles above where Fish Creek empties into
                                    the Piatt Our company in conjunction with the Hebron Com bought a ferry boat to
                                    ferry our waggons across38 gave 30 dollars for another cow were
                                    to have it for the same money when were through and thus it went from to another
                                    There is an Encampment of 5000 on fish creek There to cross Swam our cattle
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        24th
                        This morning our com commenced ferrying across and got all of our company waggons
                                    across safety Our ferry boat was four dug outs lashed side by side after getting our
                                    waggons across started across with a waggon belonging to a Mr. Fall that was
                                    acompaning us When in line distance of the opposite shore the man that was to throw
                                    the line could not easily get it up on acount of articles being laid on it The swift
                                    current of the stream still kept taking the boat down till it struck on a rock and
                                    capsised Throwed out the waggon and other articles There were 6 men in the boat 3
                                    got out immediately onto land and the other 3 on top of the waggon bed that had
                                    seperated from the running part And J.B. who with speed went down the stream J. B.
                                    was rescued When near the shore after having given up all hope and when his physical
                                    strength had failed by a man swiming in from the bank and extending a stick for him
                                    to take hold of The other two that were on the waggon bed were rescued by a horseman
                                    riding in and throwing a lasso to them J. E. one of the men had went down the stream
                                    a shouting not for joy but for help and continued so … till he got it The
                                    canos that had floted 1 1/2 miles down the stream we had to get apart by cutting the
                                    lashing drag them out on the ferry Fall lost the running gear to his waggon but got
                                    another that was left deserted We lost some of our yokes and log chains we recovered
                                    the yokes and found chains that had been thrown away by a Com that had been
                                    overstocked
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        25th
                        Had the boat repaired and underway at 7 O C in the morning About 2 O C in the P M the
                                    Hebron Com got across A man belonging to the Ashland Com was drownded to day While
                                    Swimming a horse across The 3 last days have been verry hot
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        26
                        We started this morning early had our kegs and canteen filled because we were going
                                    through an Alki region and here the water but poisonous to drink The country we
                                    passed over had a burnd and barren aperence We pased a man that had been shot and
                                    left in this wild region with one companion he had received a ball in his right by
                                    the shoulder blade and the ball had lodged near the back bone These two men were the
                                    remnant of a Com of 4 that had started from 
                              
                                 38 Farnham's "Fish creek"
                                            is not clearly identifiable, but it is probably Deer Creek, near the mouth
                                            of which was a notoriously treacherous ferry across the North Platte which,
                                            according to other accounts, claimed over twelve deaths by drowning in this
                                            same June of 1849: Irene D. Paden, The Wake of the 
                                                    Prairie
                                                 Schooner (
                                                New York
                                            , 1944), 192-195. The Upper or Mormon Ferry above present
                                            Casper, about thirty miles above this point, has a greater claim to fame,
                                            however. In 1859 this was transformed into the first bridge of record across
                                            the Platte, near which soldiers, including the ill-fated Lieutenant Caspar
                                            Collins, were stationed in the bloody 1860's.
                           
                                    
                                    
                                        Kentucky
                                     After the Death of the other two they joined a squad of missourians and
                                    it was a misourian one of the Com that had shot this man the shot was accidental
                                    This is a lonesome looking case to see a man thus disabled in this wild place laying
                                    on the damp ground and in a tent that he could not stretch out his full length in So
                                    disabled that he could not help himself in the least And to move him caused the
                                    blood to ooze out of his wound It looked as if it would rain and 3 of us stayed and
                                    help fix the tent to shed the rain To night camped by lakes These were covered by a
                                    crystilized substance that some said was saltpeter
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        27th
                        Last night had to keep careful guard over cattle to keep them from going and drinking
                                    out of these alkali lakes We found a grave with this inscription on the head board
                        
                                    John Brown
                                    found in the river June 19 shot in the head
                                
                        We travield along the Piatt till noon Saw 4 more Alkali lakes with cristalyzed
                                    surface Here we left the Piatt for the last time We took care though to fill our
                                    kegs with water for the night For by our guide books we knew that we could not go to
                                    any stream ahead in time to camp The grass on the road near all the old camps is eat
                                    off We had to drive the cattle two miles off the road to hurd them Passed a great
                                    many cattle that had died from drinking alkali water
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        28th
                        Our cattle not having any water since yesterday at noon got so dry that they could
                                    not be kept within bounds And during the night some of them strayed off for water
                                    and we were somewhat delayed in hunting them up this morning In 4 miles came to a
                                    stream where we watered our cattle39 after this we saw one
                                    mineral spring and some alkali springs and alkali lakes but none that was fit to use
                                    till we got to willow springs a distance of 20 m Nooned to day at avenue rock here
                                    the rocks are formed in to a high perpendicular wall on both sides of the road We
                                    passed a great many cattle that had been poisoned with Alkali and in one place saw 8
                                    laying dead together all of one team Here to night at these Springs was a bad
                                    camping place there being a number dead cattle that give the place a bad oder On
                                    prospect hill near here one can see over a large scope of country40 Can see the South Pass 7 or 8 days journey ahead
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        29th
                        This day we traveled on untill got to Sweet Water we came to it near Independence
                                        rock41 This rock is about 3/4 of a mile long 
                              
                                 39 Poison Spider Creek. This and Willow Springs
                                            offered the only suitable water for man or beast on the fifty-mile stretch
                                            between the last Platte ferry and the first crossing of the Sweetwater, near
                                            Independence Rock.
                              
                                 40 Rock Avenue and Prospect Hill are both readily
                                            identifiable to the motorist on U.S. Highway No. 26. Near by are the Alcova
                                            and Pathfinder Dams, on the North Platte River.
                              
                                 41 Independence Rock, in the shape of a giant turtle,
                                            ranks with Chimney Rock, Scotts Bluff, and Laramie Peak as one of the great
                                            landmarks of the 
                                                California
                                             Trail and is now preserved as a Wyoming State Park. One theory
                                            as to the origin of the name holds that an early caravan of traders or
                                            emigrants celebrated her‘e on a July 4. In any event, at that
                                            approximate date the high tide of emigration did pass here in subsequent
                                            years. From its crossing at this point the Sweetwater was now followed to
                                            its source in South Pass. It was crossed and recrossed several times.
                           
                                     and 1/2 in breadth and from 2 to 250 feet high
                                    and having a perpendicular side next the road This side is filled with names that
                                    emigrants have enscribed thereon
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        June 30th
                        In 5 miles after leaving Independence rock we came to the Devils gate Here the rocks
                                    raise lofty and perpendicularly close on each side of the road Here we saw the grave
                                    of a man his friends certainly should of put him in some other spot The River here
                                    near the road seems to run madly through over a rough Rocky bottom with a quick
                                    desending current A foaming roaring and splashing its spray by its waters fercely
                                    dashing again the rocks in its rappid decent And the high lofty rocks that raise
                                    perpendicularly at its margin at the lofty hight of some 300 feet hung portentiously
                                    overjetting over the stream The swiftfooted mountain goat and the Antelope that
                                    dwell in these rocky barriors Sometimes lose thier foothold or mis thier aim in
                                    leaping from one of these rocks to the other and are hurled mangled on the rocks or
                                    plunged into the dashing stream On one of the bare rocks that came out of the above
                                    the surface of the waters was laying the mangled body of an Antelope After passing
                                    through the Devil gate went 7 m and camped Here we took out our loads And improved
                                    the running of our waggons by cutting 2 to 2 1/2 feet off the length of our waggon
                                    beds and coupling the gearing shorter
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        July 1 st 
                        got our waggons fixed so that we started at 7 O.C. P.M. went 6 miles and camped again
                                    on Sweet water Near our camping place is another rugged looking kanyon that the
                                    river passes through
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        The 2 nd
                        Having an early start we went and nooned on the bitter cotton wood creek The high
                                    Snow covered range of wind river mountain was here visible Saw a man today packing
                                    his effects on his back Crossed the Sweet Water and camped
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        3d
                        In sight of last night camping crossed the Sweetwater had to block up our waggon beds
                                    then in 40 rods crossed it again42 the hills came so close there
                                    was no other alternative The first ford was difficult in coming in we fasened on the
                                    ropes and the waggons down then went to the opposite side and travilled up the
                                    stream a few rods before we came out At the 2 n went directly across This P.M. came
                                    to the Ice Spring here the for the space of an Acre or more had a kind of boggy
                                    aperence here by diggin 8 or ten inches through the ground thick bed of Ice as good
                                    and clear as it could be43
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        4th
                        Crossed the 4 times today and camped on its bank to night Here we run a lead cannon
                                    and bussted the 4 time we shot it D T 20 m
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        5th
                        Went up and down continually Nooned on Strawberry creek44 Passed
                                    3 alkali lakes in A.M. On the side of a hill near the road found 
                              
                                 42 This stretch was known, logically enough, as the
                                            Three Crossings. According to unsubstantiated tradition, the Pony Express
                                            Station here was the terminus of Buffalo Bill's regular run as a
                                            Pony Rider.
                              
                                 43 The novelty of "Icy Slough" was
                                            noted by practically all the journalists who passed this way.
                              
                                 44 "Strawberry creek" is not
                                            recorded on modern maps, but it appears to be the setting of St.
                                            Mary's Crossing of the Sweetwater, site of the later St.
                                            Mary's Stage Station. It would be the next to last of an indefinite
                                            number of Sweetwater crossings.
                           
                                     a bank of snow of great depth at the foot of
                                    the hill was a fine stream here was a fine chance for snowballing At night drove 1
                                    1/2 m off the road to get to the river and to have good pasture [3 sentences of
                                    shorthand follow]
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        6th
                        Were hindered some to find an ox that had strayed off in the night Forded the river
                                    soon after starting and left it for the last time At 3 O.C. A M we passed the
                                        summit45 Left an ox on the summit to die The road to day has
                                    been very gradual in its assent We have seen a great many dead oxen through this
                                    alkalie region between here and the Independence rock often 4 or 6 near a camp
                                    ground We were driving 9 oxen loose that were not able to pull in the teams The
                                    first water on the western side of the slope were the Paciffick Springs 2 m from it
                                    In 3 from the Spring was the creek46 We made our camp 2 m the
                                    other side of this for the first time on the western side of the Rocky mountain
                                    Summit For the last days we have had no wood in sight Nor is there any now And we
                                    burn the waggons that are left for it is the best use that we can make of them
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        7th
                        We filled our kegs for we were to get no more water till we could get to Dry Sandy 17
                                    m from the Paciffick Springs The road forks The left hand one is the Salt lake and
                                    the other the Ft Hall road We took the Ft Hall road with the intention of taking
                                    Sublets Cut off47 This A M was disagreeable travling on acount
                                    of thick clouds of dust that were raised by the hard blowing wind It blew the sand
                                    in our faces so as to cut quite keenly Pitched our tents on the banks of Dry Sandy a
                                    stream here about 4 rods wide and 3 ft deep
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        8th
                        Went to Big Sandy a distance of 6 miles camped 3/4 of a mile from the river on a
                                    bluff here to stay til tomorrow night to give our 
                              
                                 45 South Pass, elevation 7,550 feet, the most famous
                                            of all crossings of the Continental Divide, is perhaps the least
                                            spectacular. Without its gentle but steady ascent the great covered-wagon
                                            migrations would not have been possible. Discovered by Robert Stuart and his
                                            returning Astorians in 1812, it was rediscovered by Ashley's fur
                                            trappers in 1823-1824. The first wagons to roll across it were those of
                                            Captain B. L. E. Bonneville, in 1832. In 1868, Union Pacific engineers
                                            selected another crossing of the divide near present Creston, Wyoming.
                                            Thereafter, South Pass fell into disuse, becoming accessible to the modern
                                            tourist only recently with the completion of a new state highway between
                                            Lander and Farson, Wyoming.
                              
                                 46 At Pacific Springs, site of another stage and Pony
                                            Express Station, is the Whitman-Spalding Monument, commemorating the first
                                            Independence Day celebration on the west slope, July 4, 1836. The wives of
                                            the missionaries, Marcus Whitman and H. H. Spalding, were the first white
                                            women to follow the 
                                                Oregon
                                             Trail.
                              
                                 47 The original 
                                                Oregon
                                             Trail coincided with the Mormon route, southwestward from South
                                            Pass to 
                                                Salt Lake City
                                            , as far as Fort Bridger on Black's Fork of
                                                Green River, in the southwest corner of present
                                            Wyoming, thence northwestward to Bear River. The feverish Forty-niners were
                                            impatient with this big dog-leg detour. After crossing the Dry Sandy, they
                                            struck boldly westward over "Sublette's Cut-Off"
                                            or Farnham's "Fort Hall Road" which, after the
                                            crossings of the Little and Big Sandies, consisted of 40 miles of waterless
                                            desert before attaining Green River. Captain
                                            Bonneville, as well as the fur trader William Sublette, successfully
                                            negotiated the cut-off in 1832. Farnham's description of this
                                            route, following, barely hints of the trials of heat and thirst here
                                            encountered by man and beast.
                           
                                     cattle a good resting and get ready for
                                    crossing the Desert We cooked enough of everything to last over
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        9 th
                        At 4 O C we started on our Deasert journey The road that we passed over in the night
                                    was good and levil The latter part of the road was rough and we had a cloud of dust
                                    hanging over the road that was fairly chocking The heat of the sun was intens and we
                                    used up our kegs and canteens of water Sometime before we got in 4 m before we got
                                    to green river we had to decend a hill where the waggons would have to go at one jog
                                    off a rock 3 feet high At 4 P M we got to Green River
                           48 after 24 hours continuous journey over a Desert region of 50
                                    M Our cattle were glad to get to water and they rushed madly to it But they had a
                                    poor range for grass There were emigrants here encamped some of whom had been here 2
                                    days and the place on both sides of the river had quite a city like appearence and
                                    when night set in the numerous camp fires gave the place quite a cheerful aperence
                                    And those that had been here long enough to get rested were amusing with musick and
                                    dancing and the fireing of guns and rockets and singing glee songs
                        
                                    [To be continued in the next issue.]
                                
                        
                           
                              48
                                        Green River, the Rio Verde of the Spaniards, and the
                                        Siskadee of the Shoshones and Rocky Mountain trappers, ranked with the South
                                        Platte and the Snake River as a major crossing. The ferry,
                                        apparently a Mormon monopoly at this date, was located a few miles below present
                                        La Barge, Wyoming.
                        
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Backwoods Utopias: The Sectarian and Owenite Phases of Communitarian Socialism in
                        America: 1663-1829. By Arthur Eugene Bestor, Jr. (
                        Philadelphia
                    , University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Press, 1950, pp. xi, 288. Bibliographical essay, appendix, and index.
                    $3.50.)
            Despite the title, the bulk of this volume is given over to Robert Owen and his experiment at 
                        New Harmony
                    . The first three chapters serve more as an introduction to the subject and as
                    background for understanding Owenism than as analyses comparable to the detailed treatment accorded
                    the latter. This is said in explanation, not in criticism. For at last we have what has long been
                    needed, a painstaking, perspective study and evaluation of Owen's contribution to social
                    thought, free from local patriotism, propaganda, bigotry, ridicule, shock, and above all from just
                    plain ignorance.
            Dr. Bestor makes clear what so many have failed to note, that the communitarian point of view that
                    flowered in the early nineteenth century was a stubborn ridge between revolution and evolution in
                    the landscape of reform. It was col-lectivistic, like later Communism, but it was opposed to
                    revolution. It was impatient of gradual reform in the democratic tradition. It was often associated
                    with religious cults in America, but that relation was not integral. Rather it carried the idea of
                    the model, the example, the pilot plant. A group of believers undertook an immediate and drastic
                    reform, but in a peaceable and non-revolutionary form. The force of their example was expected to
                    encourage imitation, and soon the "social regeneration of mankind" would be
                    universally achieved by voluntary conviction, without bloodshed.
            Thus it is irrelevant to call Owen an atheist, and incorrect to label him a Communist. His fatal
                    weakness was that his idea was simply not sound economically. Details were never worked out, and so
                    far from failing, the community at 
                        New Harmony
                     never even got started before it disintegrated. The collapse revealed how impractical
                    this reputedly practical man could be. Indeed there is an air of comic opera about much of the
                    action and divisions on the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    . Out of it all William Maclure emerges the stronger, more soundly enlightened leader
                    who made of 
                        New Harmony
                     a true 
                        Athens
                     of the West;—post-Owen.
            
            If the above constitutes the "plot" of the book, it by no means indicates the
                    variety of characters, the incidents and anecdotes, the embellishments and easy style of the
                    narrative. Dr. Bestor has elucidated a complex story of some profundity with great clarity and
                    shrewd insight. His scholarly grasp of the subject is irrefutably demonstrated in the
                    bibliographical essay. His footnotes, if profuse, are informed and sharp. He even exposes himself in
                    an earlier writing! An appendix contains a chronological checklist of communitarian experiments.
            Even though Robert Owen staked everything on 
                        New Harmony
                    , its failure did not stop the communitarian movement in America for long. The long-term
                    Owenite legacy was that the failure at 
                        New Harmony
                     was not accepted as conclusive. It was argued that if his practical management was to
                    blame, then his basic principles may not have been. Then, too, his whole program became identified
                    with free thought; Owen was remembered as an atheist, and it was said that an irreligious community
                    was bound to fail. This view diverted judgment from his shaky economic precepts. The sectarian
                    communities, having the cement of religious fervor, kept going; so in the 1840's the
                    secular communitarian experiments began again—and failed. Only the discipline of
                    religion, in fact, could persuade people to accept a mode of economic life so contrary to human
                    motivation.
            Dr. Bestor won the Albert J. Beveridge Memorial Fellowship for the completion of this work, and it is
                    accordingly published under the auspices of the American Historical Association. Far pastures always
                    look greener, but reflection provokes astonishment that historians in Indiana did not produce a
                    study like this one.
            
               Indiana Historical Bureau Howard H. Peckham
         
         
            
               Robert Owen: Social Idealist. By Rowland Hill Harvey. Edited, with a Foreword,
                    by John Walton Caughey. (
                        Berkeley
                     and 
                        Los Angeles
                    , University of 
                        California
                     Press, 1949, pp. vii, 269. Bibliography and index. $3.75.)
            Publishing posthumous works is a dangerous business, for not infrequently an author's
                    reputation suffers in the process. Such, unfortunately, is the case with the present volume. Nothing
                    in it will enhance the scholarly stature of the much-loved 
                    Rowland Hill Harvey, whose untimely death in 1943 deprived the University of 
                        California
                     at 
                        Los Angeles
                     of one of its most popular teachers. Professor Caughey, a loyal colleague, has
                    discharged his editorial duties carefully and well; but he had, apparently, too little to begin
                    with. A new life of Robert Owen is long overdue; but this is a thrice-told tale, based on familiar
                    and threadbare sources, sorely lacking in depth and detail and offering nothing by way of facts or
                    interpretation that cannot be found in Podmore or Cole. It has the additional misfortune of
                    appearing simultaneously with Arthur Bestor's splendid account of the Owenite debacle at 
                        New Harmony
                    ; and the contrast between the two books on this point in conception, research, and
                    execution is rather startling.
            So far as we can judge, Professor Harvey did not plan a full-length portrait. Certainly none is
                    given. Instead we have a short essay on Owen and his times with the major emphasis on the
                    subject's unsystematic and often incomprehensible social philosophy. For the lay reader
                    some success has been achieved. The first half of the volume is a well-written sketch of 
                        England
                     during the first two decades of the nineteenth century and of Owen's fight for
                    factory legislation, educational reform and relief for the poor. The specialist, however, will
                    discover nothing new either there or in the second half. Throughout the treatment is too brief for
                    sustained analysis. Not a single phase of the Welshman's long career is fully probed. His
                    last twenty-five years are very inadequately handled; and the futility, if not the folly, of that
                    period is not sufficiently explained. Some of these shortcomings may be traced to limited research.
                    Professor Harvey restricted himself too much to Owen's well-known writings and periodicals.
                    It is questionable whether the Owen Papers at 
                        Manchester
                     were fully tapped. The bibliography, moreover, fails to list a single secondary work,
                    book or article, printed after 1933. Certainly historical writing on the 
                        England
                     of 1780-1860 has not stood still.
            The chapters on 
                        New Harmony
                     will disappoint the readers of this journal. Once again inadequate research and
                    careless execution are to blame. Save for the printed correspondence of William Pelham and Thomas
                    Pears, Professor Harvey used virtually no material not already exploited by Lockwood in 1905 and
                    Podmore in 1906. Yet most of the rich manuscript sources, so ably handled in Professor
                    Bestor's recent 
                    Backwoods Utopias, were available long before 1943. The revealing
                    Maclure-Fretageot letters, edited in 1948 for the Indiana Historical Society, were in the
                    Workingmen's Institute when Professor Harvey visited it in 1935; while the diary of Donald
                    Macdonald (whose name this volume misspells) was brought from 
                        England
                     by the reviewer in 1937 for publication by the same society. These and other riches,
                    however, were ignored by Professor Harvey as was a biography of Robert Dale Owen, which was based
                    upon them and printed in 1940. Thus an undue reliance on Lockwood and upon the younger
                    Owen's rose-tinted autobiographical account has resulted in the 
                        New Harmony
                     chapters being badly out of focus and full of unnecessary errors.
            One can be certain that if Professor Harvey had lived, this would have been a better and more solid
                    book. His experience, however, may serve as a warning that no new life of Robert Owen should be
                    attempted unless the author is prepared to spend considerable time reassessing familiar sources,
                    digging out new materials particularly in the papers of Owen's British contemporaries, and
                    taking advantage of the best recent scholarship on the 
                        England
                     of the pre-Victorian and early Victorian era.
            
               Northwestern University Richard W. Leopold
         
         
            
               Domestic Manners of the Americans. By Mrs. Frances Trollope. Edited, with an
                    Introduction, New Materials, and Notes by Donald Smalley. (
                        New York
                    , Alfred A. Knopf, 1949, pp. lxxxiii, 454, xix. Original illustrations, notes, index,
                    and appendix. Portrait of Frances Trollope frontispiece. $5.00.)
            Mrs. Frances Trollope lived to see her famous book on the way of American life in the nineteenth
                    century go through at least five editions, and since then there have been, in all, at least seven
                    reprintings if not more. Of all the reprint editions I am sure none has been so handsomely done by
                    both editor and publishers as this one. Professor Smalley had access to the notebooks and rough
                    drafts of the original author's first edition. Besides using this important material, the
                    editor has done much mature research in a considerable volume of contemporary and secondary regional
                    materials. In seventy-eight pages of text he retraces the history of Mrs. Trollope  in America as well as her literary history in general. The
                    editor's part is a more valuable asset in giving the modern reader of the Domestic Manners a running start to understanding the book.
            As to the Domestic Manners itself much can even yet be said by a reviewer. Perhaps,
                    with the exception of Dickens' inflamatory notes on his tour and his even more inflamatory
                        Martin Chuzzlewit, few descriptive books ever made the American people so
                    self-conscious. During the Civil War, a doctor, L. T. Nichols, became disgruntled and went off to 
                        London
                     to sit out the struggle. He took with him, however, a broad streak of nostalgia and
                    sentimentalism which he converted into a rather popular book entitled Forty Years of
                        American Life. He gave thought to Mrs. Trollope's observations in one paragraph
                    which seems to pretty well sum up the effect her book had in this country. Dr. Nichols first made a
                    note on this matter when he visited 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1845. In 
                        England
                     he wrote that he little wondered that the good woman was scandalized and that,
                    "She came home to 
                        England
                     in despair, and wrote her Domestic Manners of the Americans: doing at
                    once for the whole American people what she had vainly tried through discouraging years, trials and
                    losses, to do for 
                        Cincinnati
                     alone. We were dreadfully angry at Mrs. Trollope, but we read her book all the same, or
                    all the more, and profited in no small degree by its lessons. Many a time when some one in the boxes
                    at the theatre has thoughtlessly placed his boots upon the cushioned front, have I heard the warning
                    and reproving cry of ‘Trollope! Trollope!’ until the offender was brought to a
                    sense of the enormity of his transgression. I fear that Americans will never be as thankful as they
                    ought to their amusing monitress."
            More than a century later many Americans will read this famous book in its splendid new edition and
                    discover that in many instances the fretful author was often extraordinarily bumptious, and, at
                    times most naive, but they will also discover that she was equally as shrewd and discerning.
                    Relieved of the uncertainty of the future and most of the gawkiness of manners, American readers
                    will find this a good social document with startling perspective. Mrs. Trollope was able to guage,
                    but not always to comprehend, the uncertainties and lack of polish in the first half of nineteenth
                    century America. Her book, of course is often incompetent, and just as often snobbish, but her
                    chronicle has coherence and vitality. The  notes which Mr.
                    Smalley has added make major amplifications and clarifications of the text. Because of the able work
                    of editing and documenting this new edition, it is perhaps the most valuable one for reference
                    purposes.
            
               University of 
                            Kentucky
                        
                Thomas D. Clark
         
         
            
               Guide to the 
                            Burlington
                         Archives in the Newberry Library, 1851-1901. Compiled by Elisabeth Coleman
                    Jackson and Carolyn Curtis. (
                        Chicago
                    , The Newberry Library, 1949, pp. xxiii, 374.)
            The appearance of this Guide constitutes something of a milestone in the study and
                    writing of railway history in this country. Although the 
                        Burlington
                     does not enjoy the distinction of being the first railroad to have its archives
                    explored or its achievements recorded by students of history, it was the first to deposit its
                    records in a library "for the use of qualified historians." In April, 1943, it
                    placed in the Newberry Library "the bulk of its 19th century central office and land office
                    records, covering the period from about 1850 to 1901."
            The materials thus deposited included more than a million letters, 1500 bundles of miscellaneous
                    materials and some 2000 bound volumes of ledgers, accounts and operating books. The volume under
                    review is something less than a calendar of these papers, but something more than a mere catalog of
                    them. This Guide represents the first attempt to make known to the scholar the
                    "kinds of information he may expect to find among a great railroad's historical
                    files." It is designed to provide the investigator with a rough indication of the
                    "bundle or volume" in which he is likely to find a given document. In classifying
                    the materials, the compilers have retained in part the arrangement which the railroad had previously
                    employed. They have been careful to preserve the records "in their original groupings, on
                    the well-established theory that those groupings themselves, once done for some purpose, may prove
                    important to the scholar."
            Even a cursory examination of the Guide indicates the rich storehouse of material
                    made available to the historian through the intelligent co-operation of the 
                        Burlington
                     and the Newberry Library. The records here briefly described will reveal far more than
                    the history of a great corporation; they  also abound in data
                    relevant to the social and economic development of the areas tributary to the 
                        Burlington
                     system. It is to be hoped that the publication of this Guide may
                    inspire other railroads to emulate the example of the 
                        Burlington
                    .
            
               Brown University James B. Hedges
         
         
            
               Aesculapius Comes to the Colonies. The Story of the Early Days of Medicine in the
                        Thirteen Original Colonies. By Maurice Bear Gordon. (
                        Ventnor
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                    , Ventnor Publishers, Inc., 1949, pp. xiv, 560. Illustrations, bibliography, and index.
                    Portrait of Benjamin Franklin frontispiece. $10.00.)
            The promise of this title is, unfortunately, entirely unfilled in the actual narrative. The book
                    purports to be "a comprehensive survey" of Colonial medicine and an
                    "evaluation" of its nature; but in reality it is a miscellaneous collection of
                    materials—taken with or without acknowledgments— from well-known secondary
                    works. Random annals and biographical notes fill most of the pages, and it is difficult to discover
                    any system or organization in the whole. The only approach to order lies in the devotion of chapters
                    to particular states, and this is unsatisfactory in that there was often little difference between
                    the medicine of one state and that of another. Expensive and somewhat pretentious, the book adds
                    little or nothing to our knowledge of Colonial medicine.
            
               The Johns Hopkins University Richard Harrison Shryock
         
         
            
               Benjamin Franklin and Catharine Ray Greene: Their Correspondence, 1755-1790.
                    Edited and annotated by William Greene Roelker. Volume XXVI, Memoirs, American
                    Philosophical Society. (
                        Philadelphia
                    , American Philosophical Society, 1949, pp. ix, 147. Illustrations, introduction, and
                    index. $3.00.)
            In the winter of 1754-55, Dr. Benjamin Franklin, on a postal tour of inspection, came to 
                        Boston
                     where he conferred with Governor Shirley and appointed his brother, John, postmaster.
                    John had recently married the widow Hubbard and moved into her "mansion," where
                    Franklin naturally stayed during his visit. There he met Catharine Ray, from Block  Island, who was visiting her sister, Judith, daughter-in–law
                    of the new Mrs. John Franklin. An amazing friendship sprang up between the provincial but
                    keen-witted girl of twenty-three and the already world renowned scientist, philosopher, and
                    statesman of forty-eight. On his homeward journey, Catharine accompanied 
                        Franklin
                     in his carriage to her sister's farm at 
                        Westerly
                    , 
                        Rhode Island
                    , spending at least three days on the road. Thereafter, they saw each other again on
                    only five different occasions, and then but briefly. 
                        Franklin
                     spent most of the succeeding thirty-five years in 
                  Philadelphia, London
               , or 
                        Paris
                    . Catharine remained in 
                        Rhode Island
                    , married a future governor of the state, governed his household, and bore him six
                    children. In spite of these seeming obstacles, 
                        Franklin
                     and Catharine maintained until his death their unique friendship, of which the volume
                    under review is the epistolary record.
            The editor of this collection, a Director of the 
                        Rhode Island
                     Historical Society and a descendant of Catharine (Ray) 
                        Greene
                    , has gathered together ninety-eight letters, fewer than half of which conform strictly
                    to the title of the book. Of the eighteen letters from 
                        Franklin
                     to "Katy," twelve have previously been published. The twenty-one
                    letters from Catharine to 
                        Franklin
                    , however, appear completely in print for the first time. The remaining fifty-nine
                    letters came from a varied assortment of correspondents within the 
                        Franklin
                    –
                        Greene
                    –Hubbard-Ward family nexus. Their inclusion is justified by the fact that
                    they illuminate the relationship between the two principals. Many of these also are newly-published.
                    They derive, for the most part, from manuscript collections of the 
                        Greene
                     and Ward families of 
                        Rhode Island
                    , now deposited in the library of the American Philosophical Society.
            Any scrap of evidence, no matter how trivial, deserves publication when it concerns a man of Benjamin
                    Franklin's stature. The letters in this collection, while not unimportant, contain no
                    startling revelations. One can agree with the editor that they "portray a kindly, mellow,
                    domestic side of 
                        Franklin
                    " but it may well be questioned whether this side is "little known to
                    the world." Van Doren, for one, has used these manuscripts to delineate this side of the
                    "many-sided 
                        Franklin
                    ." Nor would all readers agree with Mr. Roelker that "the most
                    interesting and important" letters in this collection have not previously been published.
                    None of the correspondence exceeds in interest and piquancy the first  three letters which 
                        Franklin
                     wrote to his "Katy" in 1755 after his return from their first meeting
                    (containing the famous "cypher lesson"), or his last letter to Mrs. Greene in
                    1789, a year before his death (with its equally well-known line "Among the Felicities of my
                    Life I reckon your Friendship …."). These have all appeared in the Bigelow or
                    Smyth editions. Many of the new letters printed by Roelker, especially those between the
                    women—Catharine, Jane Mecom, Deborah and Sally Franklin, etc.—are full of
                    trivial gossip which reveals how fond they were of 
                        Franklin
                    , but little else. The collection, unfortunately, does not include the earliest letters
                    from Miss Ray to 
                        Franklin
                    , which might explain some of the tantalizing and intimate references in his replies.
                    These were probably destroyed. On the other hand, the editor does not include some letters, already
                    in print, which passed between the 
                        Greene
                     and 
                        Franklin
                     families.
            In spite of these minor defects, most of which are inherent in the materials themselves, the
                    publication of this collection serves several useful purposes. In the first place, even the letters
                    which have been published before are here edited much more faithfully than they were in the standard
                    editions. This gives them character and emotional significance. The life long devotion of a clever
                    and personable woman, twenty years his junior, shining through this artless correspondence,
                    certifies 
                        Franklin
                    's charm as no second-hand testimony could do. On the other hand, it definitely
                    denies the suggestion made by some writers of an illicit relationship between 
                        Franklin
                     and Catharine. This correspondence could not have arisen from the ashes of a seduction.
            Finally, the perusal of these letters, separated as they are from the vast body of literature
                    produced by and about 
                        Franklin
                    , allows the reader to concentrate upon the great Philadel-phian's inimitable
                    domestic personality. Books have been written about 
                        Franklin
                     the scientist, 
                        Franklin
                     the diplomat, 
                        Franklin
                     the statesman, 
                        Franklin
                     the essayist. This little book might well be sub-titled "
                        Franklin
                    , Staunch Friend."
            
               Indiana University Lynn W. Turner
         
         
            
               The Land Lies Open. By Theodore C. Blegen. (
                        Minneapolis
                    , University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1949, pp. x, 246. Index and end maps. $3.00.)
            
            In this entertaining book, which is streamlined for the "general" reader, Mr.
                    Blegen endeavored to exploit his "grassroots" concept of history. He borrowed an
                    appropriate title from Whittier; he conceived a book in a regional setting; and he wrote, for the
                    most part, short chapters of the history of 
                        Minnesota
                    . He drew a considerable part of his material from articles and addresses that he had
                    published elsewhere, and for that reason, perhaps, he documented only one of the chapters,
                    "A State University is Born." The book has an index but no bibliography.
            
               The Land Lies Open is divided into two parts of unequal length. In the first, and
                    the shorter, part the author deals with the theme of "channels to the land." Here
                    he carries the reader swiftly through the nearly three centuries from the landing of De Soto at
                    Tampa Bay in 1539 to the discovery of the "true source" of the 
                        Mississippi
                     by Henry R. Schoolcraft in 1832. Not until the Great River had
                    become known from its mouth to its source, he affirms, did the "land lie truly
                    open."
            The second part of the book consists of sampling of the history of the permanent occupation of 
                        Minnesota
                     and of the history of the cultural development of that state. Here one finds some
                    account of Henry Hastings Sibley, of a journey of a woman in a covered wagon from central 
                        Wisconsin
                     to southwestern 
                        Minnesota
                    , of Yankee contributions to the cultural life of 
                        Minnesota
                    , and of the history of the University of 
                        Minnesota
                    . Here also one finds some account of the rise of agriculture, of the founding of towns,
                    and of the achievements of "pioneers of the second line"—pioneers
                    "in medicine and public health, in conservation, in education, art and music, social
                    legislation and public welfare, and other domains." Of the eight chapters which form the
                    second part of the book, the one dealing with the history of the University of 
                        Minnesota
                     is no doubt the most valuable.
            A book containing multum in parvo is never free of mistakes. Like the rest of us,
                    Mr. Blegen occasionally nods. In this book he has slipped more than once in his calculations. For
                    example, the "true source" of the 
                        Mississippi
                     was not discovered "three hundred and seven years after De Soto set out from
                    Tampa Bay" (p. 91), for the date of its discovery was 1832, not 1846; and, furthermore, 
                        Louisiana
                     was not purchased "thirty-five years" after the "peace of
                    1783" (p. 229),  for the date of the purchase was 1803,
                    not 1818. Such errors, however, are annoying rather than important.
            In general, this book will serve the purpose for which it was written. It is a laudable and, on the
                    whole, a successful attempt to make history interesting and meaningful to people who are not
                    professional historians.
            
               Bucknell University J. Orin Oliphant
         
         
            
               White Pine Bays on the Taquamenon. By William Davenport Hulbert. (Lansing, The
                    Historical Society of 
                        Michigan
                    , 1949, pp. xxii, 152. Illustrations. $2.50.)
            Most of the nine stories contained in this posthumous collection of tales about the North Woods
                    appeared in popular magazines around the turn of the century. Although their naturalist-author is
                    better known for his Forest Neighbors, a collection of animal stories, the
                    appearance of the present volume is to be welcomed, for it brings together in convenient form
                    slightly fictionalized accounts of various facets of life in logging country.
            The locale is the Taquamenon River country in 
                        Michigan
                    . Only a thin thread of plot holds the stories together. Yet, the reader's
                    interest is sustained by descriptive passages of life in the woods, interlaced with action of a
                    kind, and a style which catches the flavor of the wilderness.
            Several of the stories deal with the work of the land-looker or timber cruiser in winter and summer.
                    It was the. task of this individual to estimate the amount of pine, hemlock, beech, birch, cedar
                    ties and posts, telegraph poles and pulpwood contained in the various sections of land. The timber
                    was cruised in forty-acre plots, either by a sampling method or by walking along certain lines so
                    that all trees were brought into view. The timber cruiser's estimates formed the basis for
                    the logger's plans.
            Other stories concern a logging camp in winter, a river drive, the lumberjack and alcohol, an unusual
                    birling match, and various accidents in the woods. From one story we learn that it was dangerous to
                    go into the woods alone. Not only were there the hazards of falling branches and twisted ankles, but
                    beartraps set by trappers who shared the woods might catch the feet of the unwary. When that
                    happened, the  accident might easily have a fatal termination,
                    unless help were near.
            The last story concerns saving a large pine tree from the lumberman's ax. It was based on
                    the difficulty of running section lines through woods country, especially after a forest fire had
                    swept away the witness trees. Just in the nick of time it was discovered that the tree stood a few
                    feet over the line, and the tree was spared.
            Although these tales have slight value as literature, they do present authentic pictures of the
                    logging industry. The editor is to be congratulated for making them available to a wider public than
                    the readers of magazines of yesteryear.
            
               University of 
                            Minnesota
                        
                Rodney C. Loehr
         
         
            
               The Story of 
                            Illinois
                        
               . By Theodore Calvin Pease. (
                        Chicago
                    , The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1949, xviii, 284. Maps, illustrations, and index. $5.00.)
            In celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the 
                        Illinois
                     Historical Society, members of the organization decided to publish a revision of
                    Professor Pease's The Story of 
                            Illinois
                        
                which was first issued in 1925. The death of Professor Pease on August 11,
                    1948, came in the midst of his task of revision. The chapters on the French and British periods had
                    been rewritten in line with his own important research and publications. The remainder of the work
                    of preparing the manuscript for publication was undertaken by Mrs. Pease.
            The volume is an excellent, brief, and interesting history of the state of 
                        Illinois
                    . No one would question that it would have been a better book if the author had lived to
                    finish it, but Mrs. Pease and the Society are to be congratulated upon the completion of the work.
                    It is a valuable volume for the citizens and students of 
                        Illinois
                     and surrounding states.
            The chief defect is the lack of bibliography and suggested readings. The footnotes which are very
                    few, do not solve this problem. 
                        Illinois
                     is fortunate in having its Centennial History in five volumes which
                    Professor Pease helped to produce thirty years ago, but students should be directed to some of the
                    original writings and documents of the state's history.
            Like most histories of American states, there is much more emphasis on the early period than on the
                    recent. In this instance, Professor Pease's own research in the French and  British period makes the early portion the more significant. His
                    treatment of the remainder of the story, however, is quite stimulating. The narrative is unusually
                    interesting for so brief an account.
            There are relatively few errors of fact or slips of proofreading. The opinion of pioneer newspapers
                    which appears on pages 97-98 seems too severe, although most of the detailed criticisms are
                    accurate.
            
               Indiana University John D. Barnhart
         
         
            
               This is 
                            Illinois
                        : A Pictorial History. By Jay Monaghan. 
                        Chicago
                    , The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1949, pp. vi, 211. $5.00.)
            There has been considerable interest in pictorial histories in recent years and this one by the state
                    historian of 
                        Illinois
                     is an excellent addition to the growing list. Covering the history of the state from
                    the time of the mound builders to the present, the work is divided into six main sections with a
                    short written introduction and a pictorial preface of ten pages. Organized chronologically the six
                    divisions are listed as follows: 
                        Illinois
                     Before Statehood; The Pioneer State; Age of Experiment; Reconstruction; 
                        Illinois
                     Comes of Age; and The New Order. The volume contains such a wide variety of materials
                    that it is difficult to describe them in general terms. Military operations are included from the
                    French and Indian War to World War II. The evolution of transportation is described in detail, and
                    there are presentations on industrial and agricultural growth, education, religion, and on the
                    subject of slavery. 
                        Chicago
                     comes in for its share of attention along with biographical accounts of leaders from
                    Pere Marquette to Governor Adlai E. Stevenson. There are materials dealing with the Columbian
                    Exposition, historic monuments, clothing and amusements, and many other subjects. The emphasis in
                    the work is definitely social. The pictures are well chosen, some of which are published for the
                    first time.
            This album presenting a panorama of historic 
                        Illinois
                     is well balanced and soundly compiled. The descriptive materials are well handled and
                    are of value of interpreting the various phases of territorial and state history. The book is a
                    fascinating presentation of Americana and should have a  broad
                    appeal. Every state in the Union would do well to prepare such a study.
            The volume is well bound and printed with attractive end papers consisting of a pictorial map of the
                    state.
            
               Southern 
                            Illinois
                         University Harold E. Briggs
         
         
            
               The Lincoln Encyclopedia. The Spoken and Written Words of A. Lincoln Arranged for
                        Ready Reference. Compiled and edited by Archer H. Shaw. With an Introduction by David G.
                    Mearns. (
                        New York
                    , The Macmillan Company, 1950, pp. xii, 395. $6.50.)
            Anyone connected with a division of a library or other agency performing a reference function knows
                    the time-devouring and often vexingly futile effort that can be expended in searching for the source
                    of a Lincoln quotation in the vast, unorganized, body of literature called Lincolniana. What has
                    long been wanting is a usable, accurate "concise book of reference to the words of Abraham
                    Lincoln." This title attempts to fill the void, but, in the opinion of the reviewer, fails.
            The volume contains excerpts from the speeches and writings of Lincoln. The arrangement is
                    alphabetical by subject. Each excerpt is identified and the source where the complete text may be
                    found is given.
            Random checking by the reviewer revealed that editorial liberties were taken with the sources from
                    which the Encyclopedia entries were taken. Under the entry "Abolition,
                    Whigs and—" (p. 2) fourteen mistakes in transcription were counted, the
                    quotation under "Advertising, Democrats get too much—" (p. 2),
                    contained seven. It is unfortunate that the Encyclopedia contains several
                    statements of Lincoln which are of dubious origin and also some proven forgeries. The compiler has
                    chosen to enter excerpts from the "lost speech" delivered at 
                        Bloomington
                     because "as capable a scholar as Arthur Brooks Lapsley considers the text
                    authentic enough for inclusion in his Writings of Abraham Lincoln." The
                    letter to Mrs. Hannah Armstrong (p. 140), to E. D. Taylor (p. 20), and that to James Lemen (p. 194),
                    are known forgeries. Had the compiler or publisher sought and utilized editorial advice from Lincoln
                    scholars, the volume would have fewer of the errors of the type mentioned above.
            
               Indiana University Library Cecil K. Byrd
         
         
         
            
               The Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        
               . Compiled and edited by Clarence Edwin Carter. Volume XIV, The
                        Territory of 
                     Louisiana–Missouri
                  , 1806-1814.
                            (
                  Washington, United
                            States
                Government Printing Office, 1949, pp. v, 915. Index.
                    $2.75.)
            This volume is the second of three pertaining to the Territory of 
                        Louisiana
                    –
                        Missouri
                     and draws from the documents relative to the administrations of Acting-Governors Joseph
                    Browne and Frederick Bates, and Governors Meriwether Lewis, Benjamin Howard, and William Clark.
                    After the admission of the State of 
                        Louisiana
                     in 1812, the remaining portion of the territory was reorganized as the Territory of 
                        Missouri
                     under the two last-named governors. This accounts for the hyphenated designation of the
                    region concerned and in some measure for the different emphases in the character of the problems
                    revealed in the last three hundred pages.
            The first six hundred pages, covering the period up to the latter part of October 1812, carry oblique
                    references to the Burr-Wilkinson connivances and to Spanish border threats, but are mainly concerned
                    with land surveys and titles, quarrels among the members of the Board of Land Commissioners, and the
                    movement toward statehood of the 
                        New Orleans
                     area. Indian relations, the Indian trade and their corollary, white infringements on
                    the natives' lands, are, of course, subjects of numerous reports and letters. But the
                    outbreak of the War with 
                        England
                     coinciding with the reorganization of the Territory, the outstanding problem of the
                    remainder of the volume, is the defense against British Indian allies and policies affecting
                    friendly tribes.
            It is interesting to note that the correspondence of Meriwether Lewis during his brief active
                    governorship (1808-1809) deals largely with matters of general Indian policy and the principles
                    basic to the functioning of the government's Indian trade and that General Agent of Indian
                    Affairs, William Clark, more typically frontiersman, is occupied with details of posts and armed
                    establishments. The latter's appointment as governor (1813) no doubt contributed to the
                    defense of the West, but it also marked a changing attitude toward Indian affairs in favor of the
                    white settlers and relinquishment of Indian claims.
            This volume, like its predecessors, is invaluable to the student of territorial history and frontier
                    development. Problems  of defense and communication, character
                    and conduct of appointed officials, developing interpretations of the Territory in its relation to
                    the nation, speculation in land and other resources and the restless push of peoples into the
                    farther West are the ingredients which make this material familiar but, at the same time, new grist
                    for the mill of American history writing.
            
               Reed College Dorothy O. Johansen
         
         
            
               The Valley Road. By Fay Ingalls. (
                  Cleveland, Ohio
               , The World
                    Publishing Company, 1949, pp. 293. End maps and illustrations. $4.00.)
            This is Fay Ingalls' chatty and informal reminiscences of the great and near great who have
                    frequented 
                        Virginia
                     Hot Springs. It includes amusing anecdotes and yarns about some of the more colorful
                    residents of Warm Springs Valley and the neighboring
                    Cowpasture and Jackson River valleys.
            To those who have golfed, bathed, hunted, danced, and flirted at the Homestead, it will undoubtedly
                    revive many fond memories. Some readers whose purses are too slim to permit their patronizing this
                    resort may receive a vicarious thrill from the description of life at this elegant playground. As
                    social history of a comparatively small class, who either chose affluent ancestors or personally
                    developed the Midas touch, it has some value.
            Mr. Ingalls briefly recounts some Indian legends; he tells of the coming of the white man to the
                    Valley; he depicts the heyday of Warm Springs and of Healing Springs; and he traces in greater
                    detail the history of Hot Springs and of the Homestead. This, however, is not, and undoubtedly was
                    not intended to be, a serious and scholarly history. There is little indication that he felt the
                    necessity of engaging in extensive research and for the period to which he devoted most of his
                    space, he is source material. For sixty years the Ingalls family has not only played the dominant
                    role in operating the Hot Springs Company—
                        Bath County
                    's one big industry—but it has also engaged in numerous civic and
                    philanthropic activities. When the author assumed the Company's presidency more than twenty
                    years ago, he was following the steps of his brother, Edward, and of his father, M. E. Ingalls, the
                    prominent railroad president and banker.
            
            A man of intense likes and dislikes, Mr. Ingalls repeatedly reveals his hearty disapproval of the New
                    Deal and all of its works. To this reviewer, at least, his description of the United Nations Food
                    Conference which was held at the Homestead in 1943, is unnecessarily unsympathetic for a host, even
                    for a professional one.
            Mr. Ingalls writes almost exclusively of persons who interested him—a policy that many
                    local residents feel caused him to omit mentioning some solid citizens whose contributions to the
                        Warm Springs Valley equaled and sometimes surpassed those of the people he
                    included.
            The objective, well-rounded and definitive history of this region of great mountain beauty is yet to
                    be written.
            
               Mary Washington College of the University of 
                            Virginia
                        
                Carrol H. Quenzel
         
         
            
               Auntie Kate: Her Journey Through Ninety Years. By Katharine Garford Thomas. (
                        Columbus
                    , The 
                        Ohio
                     History Press, 1949, pp. 252. Illustrations, portrait of Auntie Kate frontispiece.
                    $3.50.)
            In the preface Katharine Garford Thomas, a grandniece of "Auntie Kate," refers to
                    the book as a literary portrait. The term is well chosen, for the reader has constantly before him
                    the picture of the charming and gracious woman whose memories of more than ninety years (1839-1932)
                    form the main theme of this biography. Indeed, this is nearly an autobiography, for Auntie Kate
                    (Katharine Moody Smith) is allowed to tell her own story, much of the book being a record of her
                    conversations with her grandniece. These reminiscences are, however, supported and clarified by
                    excerpts from letters and diaries, the cherished possessions of the family. It is in this device of
                    having the old lady tell her own story that Mrs. Thomas gives her readers both pleasure and
                    difficulty. The pleasure is in the discovery of a beautiful personality, which is shown through her
                    conversations and letters more naturally than might have been possible had the author used some
                    other device. The difficulty is just what one might expect: the reminiscences of a nonagenarian are
                    likely to become rambling. Then, too, the names of the large circle of family and
                    friends—all so entirely clear to Auntie Kate— often leave the reader somewhat
                    bewildered. Nevertheless,  we realize that these difficulties
                    are not of great importance. Most of the people in the story are interesting because of Auntie Kate
                    herself.
            As we follow Auntie Kate through a journey which covers the greater part of a century and the whole
                    breadth of the continent, we are impressed by the fact that the lives of ordinary people, with their
                    seemingly small daily concerns, are the real essence of history. The book is full of little pictures
                    of people and their ways, pictures which help to give the third dimension to historical documents.
            We see the Moody family making the difficult journey from their 
                        New England
                     home to northern 
                        Ohio
                     in the 1830's and going by way of the newly opened Erie Canal A few years
                    later, hard times made it necessary for Loman to give up his business in 
                        Ohio
                     and return to 
                        New England
                    .
            We are given some idea of the education of young girls a hundred and more years ago, not only in the
                    little red school house, where nearly all children began their education, but also in the boarding
                    schools, where a young girl was taught dancing and "how to draw a rose." Kate
                    Moody herself went to Mount Holyoke, and in her talk at this point gives some interesting light upon
                    the beginnings of this famous school as well as upon her own experiences there.
            After her college days were over, Kate went to 
                        Elyria
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , to care for her sister's motherless children. Surely the residents of Elyria
                    will take delight in the accounts of the early days of the town, accounts which go back to the
                    original charter, granted by Charles II, and which continue to the 1930's, for it was
                    there, in the beautiful home of a favorite niece, that Auntie Kate spent her last days.
            She says little of the Civil War although it is evident that the national tragedy touched her deeply.
                    One of her girlhood memories was of food and clothing which her mother kept stored in the wood shed
                    for "contrabands," as the fugitive slaves were called. Her attitude toward Lincoln
                    is likely to surprise the modern reader. She says that she then was "like all eastern
                    people in their estimate of Lincoln. They did not feel that he measured up to what a president
                    should be. They felt that he was not a gentleman." She concludes a letter with this
                    sentence: "Abraham Lincoln seems to me an imbecile in respect to the war that's
                    all." Later, however, she changed her mind on that subject.
            
            While in Elyria, Kate Moody met the man who was to become her husband, William L. Smith, a widower
                    with five children. Six of their own were added to this family. When she was fifty and he sixty-six,
                    they felt the urge of Horace Greeley's slogan, "Go West, young man!" and
                    set out for 
                        Washington
                     Territory, where two of their sons had preceded them.
            In 
                        Washington
                     Territory, Mr. Smith took up a claim of six hundred acres in the Big Bend country.
                    There we see the family living the life of pioneers in the new land. Although deprived of many of
                    the comforts and conveniences to which they were accustomed, Kate made a pleasant and happy home.
                    The walls of the new house, left in the natural wood (for it would have cost twenty dollars to have
                    them plastered) were well covered with favorite pictures from home. Their water was drawn with
                    bucket and rope from a well and, for household use, was stored in Standard Oil tins. For a woman who
                    was accustomed to bathrooms in her house, this detail of housekeeping must, indeed, have been a
                    hardship. So, too, must have been the problem of heating, for the only fuel to keep them warm in the
                    intense cold was wood, which had to be hauled for a distance of twenty miles. Their only vehicle was
                    the farm wagon, in which the children went gaily to school or church wrapped in buffalo robes. But
                    Auntie Kate seems to have relished the life. "We lived like folks," she says and
                    goes on to explain her meaning: there were plenty of clean clothes, good food, and good reading.
                    Although crops were good, the market was so far distant that much of the profit was lost in
                    transportation. So it was that the Smith family decided to return to 
                        Ohio
                     in 1895.
            The last chapters deal with Aunt Katie's family affairs, her journeys, and her many friends.
                    The account of the long bright evening of her life is of interest chiefly because it throws more
                    light upon a character which the reader has come to respect and to find delightful. In reading the
                    book one's attention may sometimes wander as he tries to follow the somewhat rambling
                    narrative but it will not be long before Aunt Katie will catch his interest again by some lively
                    anecdote or illuminating comment. She is a woman who has a genius for discovering the beauty that is
                    around all of us, in doors and out, in pleasant homes, and especially in human  character; and she has the gift of imparting this sense of beauty to
                    the reader.
            
               Marshall College Henrietta Hepburn
         
         
            
               The Wife of Marobius and Other Plays. By Max Ehrmann. Edited by
                        Bertha K. Ehrmann. (
                            Boston
                        , Bruce Humphries, Inc., 1949, pp. 170. $3.00.)
            The plays contained in this volume, "The Wife of Marobius," "David and
                    Bathsheba," "The Light of the Sun," "Eternal Male and
                    Female," and "A Virgin's Dream," were originally published
                    separately.
            In "The Wife of Marobius," Ehrmann attempted "to give an added radiance to
                    love and a new charm to the words that depict it." The scene of the drama takes place in
                    pre-Christian days in 
                        Rome
                    . The author has ably treated the theme where the wife loves the beauty of soul and the
                    husband loves the beauty of body.
            David and Bathsheba" follows closely the Old Testament story and contains both the humor and
                    tragedy of life. Although the scene for the three acts on the roof of the palace of David is ancient
                    and oriental, the characters are modern. Each of the ten wives of King David tries in her own
                    particular manner to please him.
            Ehrmann's earliest drama, "The Light of the Sun," has been produced on the
                    stage several times. It is a one-act tragedy. "Eternal Male and Female" is a
                    contest between men and women with respect to their love life. The poem, "A
                    Virgin's Dream," included in this book also deals with the "love rights
                    of women."
         
         
            
               Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the 
                            United States
                         Senate. Compiled by Harold E. Hufford and Watson G. Caudill. Preliminary
                    Report No. 23. (
                        Washington
                    , The National Archives, 1950, pp. x, 284.)
            This work is a preliminary inventory of the records of the 
                        United States
                     Senate from the First Congress, 1789-1791, to the Seventy-ninth Congress, 1945-1946,
                    which have been transferred to the National Archives. The index of sixty pages should be of
                    considerable assistance to scholars.
         
         
         
            
               Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the Maritime Labor Board. Compiled by
                    Caroline W. Hiatt and Salvatore D. Nerboso. Preliminary Report No. 20. (
                        Washington
                    , The National Archives, 1949, pp. iii, 7.)
            The Maritime Labor Board, an independent agency in the executive branch of the Government, was
                    established on July 6, 1938. A bill signed by the President on June 23, 1941, reduced the Board to
                    the status of a research agency. By February 15, 1942, its appropriation had been used up, and three
                    days later the files were transferred to the National Archives.
         
         
            
               List of Documents Concerning the Negotiation of Ratified Indian Treaties,
                    1801-1869. Compiled by John H. Martin. Special List No. 6. (
                        Washington
                    , The National Archives, 1949, pp. iii, 175.)
            This study is a select list of documents pertaining to the negotiations of ratified Indian treaties
                    that are in the National Archives in Record Group 75, Records of the Office of Indian Affairs, and
                    Record Group 48, General Records of the Department of Interior. The officials who engaged in these
                    negotiations of Indian treaties are listed in the appendix. They included 
                        United States
                     Commissioners, 1801-1868; Commissioners of Indian Affairs, 1832-1869; Secretaries of
                    War, 1801-1849; and Secretaries of the Interior, 1849-1869. For the scholars on American Indians,
                    this publication should be a valuable tool.
         
         
            
               Disposition of Federal Records. (
                        Washington
                    , The National Archives, 1949, pp. v, 40.)
            The disposition program was instituted in order "to control the outflow of records from an
                    agency as methodically as their inflow is controlled." Among the seven chapters are such
                    titles as, "When and How Should Records be Retired?"; "How Should Records
                    be Microphotographed?"; and "How Should Records be Disposed of?" Appendix
                    I contains a selected bibliography of manuals pertaining to the disposition of Federal records. In
                    appendix II are listed the laws and regulations with respect to the disposition of Federal
                records.
         
         
         
            
               Fifteenth Annual Report of the Archivist of the 
                            United States
                         for the Year Ending June 30, 1949. (
                  Washington, United States
                Government
                    Printing Office, 1950, v, 57. Appendixes and index.)
            The report covered the following topics: records retirement, preservation of records, analysis and
                    description of records, reference service, other services, The Federal Register,
                    and administrative activities. It is interesting to note that reference services rendered averaged
                    more than 1200 for every day the building was open. The records in the National Archives were used
                    extensively for historical projects. For the individual interested in local history helpful material
                    may be found in the National Archives, particularly census schedules.
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Hill Men of Indiana
            
                1. Andrew J. Hill, Private, Company K, from 
                            Davis County
                         in 117 Regiment Indiana Civil War, 1863-1865.
               2. Andrew P. Hill born near 
                            Valparaiso
                        , Indiana, 1853, married Laura Broughton
               3. Arch Hill married Leo Cole in 
                            Allen County
                        , Indiana, 1915.
               4. Armand Hill born 
                            Newton County
                        , Indiana, about 1882, married Grace Livermore
               5. Arthur F. Hill born 1884/5 died 1949, 
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana.
               6. Arthur J. Hill born 1867 
                            Ladoga
                        , Indiana, son of William D.
               7. Asa W. Hill, Private, Company D, Sixty-Seventh Regiment, Indiana Infantry, 1862.
               8. Atkinson Hill, Private, Compant H, Eighty-Sixth Regiment, Indiana Infantry, 1864, from 
                            Michigantown
                        , Indiana.
               9. Augustus Hill married Mattie Beatty 1894, 
                            Bartholomew County
                        , Indiana.
               10. August Hill married Mary V. Hill 1902, 
                            Bartholomew County
                        , Indiana.
               11. Barney Hill, Private, Company G, Indiana Infantry, 1861, from 
                            Knox County
                        , Indiana.
               12. Benjamin Hill married Nancy Baker, 1839, 
                            Allen County
                        , Indiana.
               13. Benjamin Hill born about 1826, married Emily?, lived in 
                            Green County
                        , Indiana, 1850. Had Thomas O. Hill.
               14. Benjamin Hill born about 1840 son of John and Phoebe Gallion.
               15. Benjamin B. Hill, Private, Company F, Forty-Seventh Regiment, Indiana Infantry, from 
                            Orange County
                        , Indiana
            
            Correspondence and records of these men desired by
            Edwin R. Hill 5421 Broadway Indianapolis 20, Indiana
         
      
      
         
      
   
