
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 77, Issue 3, pages 205-304. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:77+issue:3+year:1981&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            A Plea for a New Appreciation of Popular History: John Clark Ridpath, a Case Study
            
                    Chris Smith
                    ∗
                
            Baseball buffs, older Americans, and a surprising number of historians often refer nostalgically to
                    the 
                        Chicago
                     Cub combination, Tinker to Evers to Chance. Even the most traditional scholars,
                    although they may not be conversant with specific terms or teams, admit that baseball is an integral
                    and influential part of the nation's heritage and popular culture; and increasing numbers
                    of academics and critics hold that the conceptual beliefs of a popular culture must be analyzed and
                    studied in order to understand better a particular age in history. Popular culture, of which
                    baseball is a small segment, penetrates American bones; it surrounds the lives of American citizens
                    even when they are abroad. 
                        Norman
                     Podhoretz, editor of Commentary, saw the marrow of America in the
                    Fulbright scholars who studied in Europe in the 1950s. After weeks of living
                    "pure" in another culture, the scholars gathered together, admitted mutual
                    passions, and shared in a thousand guilty Americanisms: "the Shadow, and the Green Hornet,
                    … James Cagney … and Glenn Miller, ‘Did You Ever See a Dream
                        Walking?’…."1
            
            Professional American historians, however, have been slow to take note of the interest in popular
                    culture that has grown so explosively since the 1950s, when the ideas of Marshall McLuhan began to
                    surface, and slow to realize the potential for serious research in the cultural area. Many
                    historians perhaps listened too long to cues from 
                        Van
                     Wyck Brooks who posited only low brow and high brow cultures and from pundits such as
                        
                  
                     ∗ Chris Smith is assistant professor of history, 
                                Arizona
                             State University, Tempe. The 
                                Arizona
                             State University Faculty Grant-in-Aid Program helped to support the research
                            for this article, and Carol Lee Smith, Kristina Valaitis, Roberta Bender, Michael Stewart,
                            Paula Wolfe, Joan Jensen, and Margaret Finnerty helped with earlier versions.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Norman
                             Podhoretz, Making It (
                                New York
                            , 1967), 85–86.
               
                     Dwight MacDonald and Edmund Wilson who dictated that anything
                    "widely disseminated must be esthetically inferior."2
            
            Still, a few historians did change their perspective. Quite early in the 1950s George H. Palmer wrote
                    that a better perspective of an age was gained by studying not the literary geniuses but the writers
                    of lesser quality. The geniuses "tell of past and future as well as the present. They are
                    for all times…. But in the sensitive, responsive souls of less creative power, current
                    ideals record themselves with clearness."3 As early as 1967 Donald R.
                    McCoy urged that American historians utilize "underdeveloped sources" for writing
                    about the nineteenth century. He did not use the term "popular culture," but he
                    pleaded for historians to make use of "religious tracts, weekly newspapers, pulp novels,
                    posters, handbills, burlesque, social and business clubs, cartoons, comic strips, sermons and
                    speeches" as evidence.4 Radical and social historians in the 1960s,
                    such as Jesse Lemisch and Herbert G. Gutman, urged the understanding of "the
                    inarticulate" in history and the need to write history from the "bottom
                        up."5 Although a number of scholars have questioned such ideas, if
                    followed they would certainly help to chronicle the totality of human experience, surely the goal of
                    all democratic historians.6 To approach history from this point of view scholars
                    would have to consider evidence and 
                  
                     2 Ray B. Browne, Larry N. Landrum, William K. Bottorff, eds., Challenges in American Culture (Bowling Green, 
                                Ohio
                            , 1970), xiv. The work of the Popular Culture Association at Bowling Green has
                            been outstanding in developing a national journal (now in its sixteenth volume) and
                            attracting such renowned scholars as Russel B. Nye, Northrup Frye, and Leslie A. Fiedler to
                            serve in administrative positions. On other developing programs in popular culture
                            areas—although they are very few in history—see John Cawelti,
                            "Popular Culture Programs," in Ray B. Browne and Ronald J. Ambrosetti,
                            eds., Popular Culture and Curricula (Bowling Green, 
                                Ohio
                            , 1970).
                  
                     3 Quoted in Arthur Mann, Yankee Reformers in the Urban
                                Age (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1954), 240.
                  
                     4 Donald R. McCoy, "Underdeveloped Sources of Understanding
                            in American History," Journal of American History, LIV
                            (September, 1967), 255–70.
                  
                     5 Some of the writer's conceptual indebtedness is to this
                            school. For a basic understanding of their theses see Jesse Lemisch, "The American
                            Revolution Seen From the Bottom-Up," in Barton J. Bernstein, ed., Towards a New Past: Dissenting Essays in American History (
                                New York
                            , 1968), 3–46; Jesse Lemisch, "Listening to the
                            ‘Inarticulate’: William Widger's Dream and the Loyalties of
                            American Revolutionary Seamen in British Prisons," Journal of Social
                                History, III (Fall, 1969), 1–29; Herbert G. Gutman, "The
                            Worker's Search for Power: Labor in the Gilded Age," in H. Wayne Morgan,
                            ed., The Gilded Age: A Reappraisal (
                                Syracuse
                            , 1963), 38–69.
                  
                     6 David Hackett Fischer, Historians' Fallacies:
                                Toward A Logic of Historical Thought (
                                New York
                            , 1970), 208; Jack Kirby, "Early American Politics—the
                            Search for Ideology: An Historical Analysis and Critique of the Concept of
                            ‘Deference,’" Journal of Politics, XXXII
                            (November, 1970), 831.
               
                     artifacts from all components of American popular culture; yet,
                    despite these new suggestions an obvious and neglected component of popular culture has been
                    ignored. It is one that affects historians directly: the importance of popular history and popular
                    historians.
            In their analysis of American historiography of the years 1870–1920, historians have
                    always paid due homage to the double-play rhythm of George Bancroft to Frederick Jackson Turner to
                    Charles E. Beard.7 Perhaps these scholars are "for all time,"
                    but they were not the only influential historians of their respective generations.8 Consider a combination less familiar to the students of American historiography, that of
                    Benson J. Lossing to John S. C. Abbott to John Clark Ridpath. These best-selling historians were
                    household names in their day, and since their works were "popular," their
                    histories may have come closer to recording clearly the historical consciousness of their respective
                    times than do the works of honored historians.
            If knowledge of the past is important for everyone, then all kinds of interpretations, written and
                    oral histories alike, will help a people know themselves: who they are, what their relationship to
                    their world is, and of what races, institutions, and nations they are comprised. Some current
                    scholars suggest that the collective meaning of history for a people consists of individuals
                    developing a consciousness of themselves in historical time.9 If this can be
                    accepted, then the importance of popular histories and popular historians can no longer be ignored,
                    and popular historians such as Lossing, Abbott, and Ridpath have been kept on the bench too long.
            The popular writers of history were not always overlooked or denigrated. Young Abraham Lincoln read
                    and reread Parson Weems's Life of 
                            Washington
                        . Later in life he believed also that 
                  
                     7 See for example Richard Hofstadter, The Progressive
                                Historians: Turner, Beard, Parrington (
                                New York
                            , 1968); Michael Kraus, The Writing of American History (
                                Norman
                            , Okla., 1953); Robert Allen Skotheim, American Intellectual
                                Histories and Historians (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1966); Harvey 
                                Wish
                            , The American Historian (
                                New York
                            , 1960).
                  
                     8 Of the well-known historians George Bancroft sold the most copies of
                            his books, but even his sales were not outstanding in comparison to the popular histories.
                            See Russel B. Nye, George Bancroft: Brahmin Rebel (
                                New York
                            , 1945). Even the so-called popularizers of ideas, such as E. L.
                            Godkin's Nation, had actually a very small circulation. See Frank
                            Luther Mott, A History of American Magazines (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1938), III, 337. W. Stull Holt, "Who Reads the Best
                            Histories?" 
                        Mississippi valley Historical
                            Review, XL (March, 1954), 613–19, clearly reveals shockingly low sales of
                            the so-called "best histories" of the twentieth century.
                  
                     9 Bruce Mazlish, The Riddle of History (
                                New York
                            , 1966), 8. See also John Lukacs, Historical Consciousness; or, the
                                Remembered Past (
                                New York
                            , 1968).
               
                     the writings of Herbert 
                        Spencer
                     and Charles Darwin were entirely too heavy for the ordinary mind to digest.10 Throughout most of the nation's first century, average Americans
                    learned about history from the popularizers and from various components in the popular culture. The
                    historic images of 
                        Washington
                    , for example, were everywhere in the culture.11
            
            After the Civil War, however, a process of modernization and professionalization began to change all
                    aspects of American life including the historical discipline.12 The American
                    Historical Association was founded in 1884 with only forty or forty-one charter members. As did
                    other new professional organizations, it struggled for its existence and for recognition and
                    campaigned for new exacting standards derived mainly from the ideas of American scholars trained in 
                        Germany
                    .13 In order to survive, the AHA enticed to membership and high
                    office many of the old filiopietistic historians such as George Bancroft, Edward Eggleston, Captain
                    Alfred T. Mahan, and Theodore Roosevelt, but there was much internal and external bickering between
                    the new and old interpreters of Clio. Roosevelt, for example, eventually termed the AHA "a
                    preposterous little organization" filled with "painstaking little
                        pedants."14 The end result was a shift in professional standards. A
                    new generation of scholars, trained in graduate schools such as the one that developed at Johns
                    Hopkins University, learned the great dictum that "history is past politics." The
                    popular historians' reputations faded, and the reading public suffered. Finley Peter Dunne,
                    an astute 
                        Chicago
                     newspaperman and the creator of the famous Mr. Dooley, understood a good portion of the
                    problem; the new histories were dull. Dooley said:
            
               
                  10 Richard Current, ed., The Political Thought of Abraham
                            Lincoln (
                            New York
                        , 1967), xxix.
               
                  11 Two valuable books survey the intricate process of the interaction of
                        American society and history for parts of the nineteenth century. David 
                            Van
                         Tassel, Recording American Past (
                            Chicago
                        , 1960), actually begins with the Puritans and ends with the founding of the
                        American Historical Association in 1884. George H. Callcott, History in the 
                                United States
                            , 1800–1860: Its Practice and Purpose (
                            Baltimore
                        , 1970), surveys historical themes in all facets of American life. Both are fine
                        surveys, but like all surveys they leave open for further investigation many questions about the
                        average person's conceptualization of history.
               
                  12 This change is best followed in detail in Robert H. Wiebe, The Search for Order, 1877–1920 (
                            New York
                        , 1967). Samuel P. Hays, The Response to Industrialism,
                            1885–1914 (
                            Chicago
                        , 1967), earlier sketched out the basic thesis.
               
                  13 On the impact of German scholarship see Jurgen Herbst, The
                            German Historical School in American Scholarship (
                            Ithaca
                        , N.Y., 1965).
               
                  14 Elting E. Morison, ed., The Letters of Theodore
                        Roosevelt (8 vols., 
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1951), III, 707.
            
            
            
                    I know histhry isn't thrue, Hinnessy, because it ain't like what I see ivry day
                        in Halsted Sthreet. If any wan comes along with a histhry of 
                            Greece
                         or 
                            Rome
                         that'll show me th' people fightin', gettin'
                        dhrunk, makin' love, gettin' married, owin th' grocery man
                        an' bein' without hard coal, I'll believe they was a 
                            Greece
                         or 
                            Rome
                        , but not befure … histhry is a post-morten examination. It tells ye what
                        a counthry died iv. But I'd like to know what it lived iv.15
               
                
            In addition, a new elite class of editors and journalists emerged. Their judgments helped to define
                    further just who were historians and to exclude from consideration popular ones such as Ridpath and
                    Abbott. E. L. Godkin, for example, said of Abbott—a historian with fifty-four volumes and
                    an immense circulation to his credit: 
                        I single out Abbott for special hostility, not because I think he is himself or his books
                            worth a half page, but because his histories are fair specimens of a kind of literature of
                            which an immense quantity are issued every year and which the half-educated look on as
                            "solid reading." I suppose neither you nor I have any idea of the enormous
                            number of respectable people who think his histories solid works and it is sickening to see
                            him treated in the newspapers with great deference as Abbott the historian.16
                  
                     Godkin further complained in the same letter of "quack poets, quack novelists and
                    quack historians."
            John Clark Ridpath, one of Abbott's most popular colleagues, also deserves to be remembered
                    more respectfully today. He was probably the best-known historian of his time, bridging the gap
                    between Parson Weems and Samuel Goodrich of the pre-1860 period and H. G. Wells in the 1920s.
                    Ridpath published six major works of history in over nineteen volumes, nearly every one in excess of
                    five-hundred, often double-columned pages. The scope and breadth of Ridpath's works, like
                    those of other popular historians, are so vast that the present-day academic historian would not
                    dare to undertake them. One work was simply The Great Races of Mankind in four
                    volumes; another was the History of the World: Being an Account of Principle Events in
                        the Career of the Human Race from the Beginnings of Civilization to the Present Time, Comprising
                        the Development of Social Institutions and the Story of all Nations in nine volumes.
                    Ridpath obviously was not afraid to tackle large subjects. Monographs, biographies, and textbooks
                    numbered an additional eight volumes; and his published articles, coauthored books, and editorships
                    of "People's" encyclopedias 
                  
                     15 Finley Peter Dunne, Observations by Mr. Dooley (
                                New York
                            , 1906), 271.
                  
                     16 William M. Armstrong, ed., The Gilded Age Letters of
                                E. L. Godkin (
                                Albany
                            , N.Y., 1974), 20–21.
               
                     fill a several page bibliography.17 Low
                    estimates of the sale of Ridpath's works credit him with a total of 2,225,000 copies by
                        1920.18 Considering that part of that total included multivolume works
                    listed as one sale, an awesome number of Ridpath histories were available to the average reader. His
                    name was a household word; mail merely addressed to "Ridpath, the Historian"
                    reached him.19
            
            Ridpath was a product of the Indiana frontier and spent nearly all his years (1840–1900)
                    in 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana. He served for sixteen years, from 1869 to 1885, as professor of history and
                    belle lettres and later as vice-president at his alma mater, Indiana Asbury (later DePauw)
                        University.20 During this time he published three books, the most important
                    of which was his Popular History of the 
                            United States
                         of America, which was intended for 
                        the average American: for the man of business who has neither time nor disposition to plod
                            through ten or twenty volumes of elaborate historical dissertation; for the practical man of
                            the shop, the counter, and the library of the poor. It is inscribed to the father, the
                            mother, the son, and the daughter of the American family. If the father, mother, son and
                            daughter shall love their country better—if they shall understand more clearly
                            and appreciate more fully the founding, progress and growth of liberty in the New
                            World—the author will be abundantly repaid.21
                  
                    
            
            In 1886 Ridpath resigned from the faculty at Indiana Asbury, probably because he did not receive the
                    presidency of the university, and devoted the remainder of his life to his popular histories. Very
                    late in his life, in 1896, Ridpath was an unsuccessful 
                  
                     17 For the most complete Ridpath bibliography see Louis Christian
                            Smith, "John Clark Ridpath—U.S. Popular Historian: A Social and
                            Intellectual Biography and an Examination of a Genre of Literature" (Ph.D.
                            dissertation, Department of History, University of 
                        Illinois, Champaign
                     -
                                Urbana
                            , 1972), 365–75.
                  
                     18 This statement is based on a collection of evidence. See, for
                            examples, some specific figures cited in William C. King, ed., Portraits and
                                Principles of the World's Great Men and Women with Practical Lessons on
                                Successful Life by over Fifty Leading Thinkers (
                                Springfield
                            , Mass., 1899), 529. Also many newspaper clippings in the Ridpath scrapbook,
                            some with no date and no paper named, give various estimates. These clippings were from
                            newspapers that announced lectures by Ridpath. Ridpath Scrapbook, Freebairn Collection of
                            Manuscripts (Mrs. Virginia Freebairn, 4134 North 
                        Pennsylvania, Indianapolis
                     , Indiana). This writer, searching unsuccessfuly for
                            exact figures, has corresponded with all the extant publishers. Obituaries located in the
                            Freebairn Collection also give various estimates.
                  
                     19 See correspondence in the Freebairn Collection.
                  
                     20 Albert Shaw, "John Clark Ridpath: A Typical Man of the
                                Ohio Valley and Old Northwest," American
                                Review of Reviews, XI (March, 1895), 294–96.
                  
                     21 John Clark Ridpath, A Popular History of the 
                                    United States
                                 of America … (
                                New York
                            , 1876), iii.
               
                    
                    
                  Reproduced front page of a publisher's pamphlet (n.p., n.d.); courtesy
                            Chris Smith.
               
                    
                    
                  RESIDENCE OF JOHN CLARK RIDPATH, INDIANA ASBURY
                                UNIVERSITY, GREENCASTLE
                  
                  Courtesy Archives of Depauw University and Indiana United Methodism, 
                                Greencastle
                            .
                candidate for Congress, was active in the Populist movement and party, and served almost
                    two years (1897–1898) as a reform editor of The Arena magazine in 
                        Boston
                    . His major contribution, however, stemmed from the influence of his popular writings on
                    the historical consciousness of the average American.
            The 
                        New York
                    
                    Times mourned Ridpath's death in 1900 and labeled his total sales figures
                    as "immense." The Times further asserted that the
                    historian's influence upon the multitude was not "less wholesome and
                    intellectually stimulating because Dr. Ridpath's literary repute was not positively great
                    among the cultivated few." It praised Ridpath's ability to think clearly, speak
                    fluently, and "write elegantly." The newspaper added that "thousands and
                    thousands" had derived "immense satisfaction from Ridpath" while
                    "Gibbon, Hume, Freedman, Froude, Parkman, Bancroft, McMaster," and others remained
                    "but names."22
            
            
               
                  22
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, August 1, 4, 1900. Two obituaries appeared, one on the day of death and
                        the other in the Review of Literature on the following Saturday.
            
            
            Ridpath's publishers built his massive sales records almost entirely by subscription, as did
                    most of the other popular historians of his era. The story of the subscription trade indicates that
                    subscription selling was a key factor in the diffusion of knowledge during the nineteenth century.
                    Everett Dick's classic Sod House Frontier, 1854–1890 makes
                    this point:
            
                    Subscription books, with the elegant bindings and gold-edged leaves, caught the eye of many who
                        were hungering for knowledge on the intellectually starved frontier. A longing to have a pretty
                        volume in the home or to give the children advantages which parents never had, influenced others
                        to part with their hard-earned cash. Ridpath's History of the U.S.
                        sold in the [eighteen] seventies for prices varying from $5 to $12
                        according to bindings.23
               
                
            Histories like Ridpath's then, were widely available for the growing number of literate but
                    nonliterary residents of rural and small-town America. For these people, the book agent, who
                    wandered the country roads and small towns taking orders for educational volumes, classics, travel
                    accounts, religious works, and, in many cases, for subscriptions to histories including those of
                    Ridpath, Lossing, Abbott, and Joel T. Headley, represented a major cultural force.24 Christopher Morley told the tale of the subscription book peddler who called on the farmer
                    to suggest a new year's supply of reading and received the farmer's comment that
                    he had not yet finished last year's twenty volumes on Funeral Orations.
                    He stated that it was difficult reading but added that he would be well prepared for any funeral
                    oration he might be requested to do.25
            
            The nineteenth-century subscription publishers and book agents had more than a touch of the
                    confidence man in them. Their motto was "Get the Prospect Seated and Keep
                    Talking." Certainly there were sad financial consequences for the poor 
                  
                     23 Everett Dick, The Sod House Frontier (
                                New York
                            , 1938), 487.
                  
                     24 Walter sutton urged the importance of studying subscription
                            literature. See his The Western Book Trade: 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 as a Nineteenth Century Publishing and Book Trade Center (
                                Columbus
                            , 1961), 233. Marjorie Stafford's thesis is not analytical but does
                            mention the four best-selling historians who sold the overwhelming majority of their works
                            by subscription. See her "Subscription Book Publishing in the 
                                United States
                            , 1865–1930" (M.A. thesis, Department of Journalism,
                            University of 
                                Illinois
                            , 1943), 91. Also on subscription books see Frank E. Compton, Subscription Books (
                                New York
                            , 1939), which is merely a printing of an after-dinner speech on encyclopedias.
                            A colorful but superficial article on the book agent is Gerald Carsen, "Get the
                            Prospect Seated and Keep Talking," American Heritage, IX (August,
                            1948), 38–42. On Lossing see David R. Van Tassel, "Benson J. Lossing:
                            Pen and Pencil Historian," American Quarterly, VI (Spring, 1954),
                            32–44.
                  
                     25 Christopher Morley, Parnassus on Wheels (
                                New York
                            , 1955), 47–49, 71–72.
               
                     family that scrimped to buy the four-volume Ridpath history,
                    believing it to be a better family learning and resource center than the one-volume edition. They
                    did not realize that the publishers only decreased the margins, changed the size of the print, and
                    filled in fancy blank leaves. Larceny also extended to higher ranks than that of the typesetter;
                    volume nine of a revised Ridpath History of the World ended in 1909. Ridpath died
                    in 1900.
            As do studies of the subscription business and its problems, the work of popular historians of the
                    nineteenth-century as well as that of the current practitioners of the art form need serious
                    scholarly analysis. For close to a century many professional historians have acted as guild masters
                    for the historical discipline. Like Godkin, they continue to speak of popular history as uncritical,
                    superficial, merely colorful, or they label it, with the ultimate dismissal, as being
                        "journalistic."26 They criticize Ridpath and others for
                    not having formal training in the historical discipline. Unlike Bancroft, Ridpath did not have the
                    opportunity to attend a German university; however, what Theodore Mommsen said years ago has special
                    validity when applied to Ridpath's history: "History is one of those academic
                    subjects which cannot be directly acquired through precept and learning…. history is in
                    some measure too easy and in some measure too difficult. The elements of the historical discipline
                    cannot be learned, for every man is endowed with them."27 Carl Becker
                    in the 1930s agreed that "every man is his own historian," and Daniel J.
                    Boorstin's recent advice is also pertinent: "I would like to persuade my fellow
                    Americans today that they, too, are primary sources. The trivia of our daily experience are evidence
                    of the most important questions in our lives: namely what we believe to be real."28 Popular history, then, should be approached without preconceived professional
                    notions to dismiss its importance at the first stubbed footnote.29 Popular
                    history can be accepted as history, for it is not solely the province of historians to decide who
                    should be designated a "historian." In fact, the American people collectively by
                    their 
                  
                     26 Almost any current professional journal contains examples of this
                            attitude. See also Fischer, Historians' Fallacies,
                            70–73. Fischer does acknowledge, however, that popular history "is much
                            too serious a business to be left to pop historians and businessmen."
                  
                     27 Quoted in Lukacs, Historical Consciousness, 262.
                  
                     28 Daniel J. Boorstin, The Image: A Guide to Pseudo
                                Events in America (
                                New York
                            , 1962), 265.
                  
                     29 Ridpath himself practically abolished the footnote as a scholarly
                            weapon, using it only a few times in thousands of pages of writing.
               
                     reading, buying, and listening preferences have an important
                    role in defining just who are the historians and what are their influences.
            One of the outstanding qualities of popular histories was their amazing ability to remain in print
                    and on bookshelves in the home. Ridpath's first book appeared in 1874, and the last major
                    edition of his work appeared in 1941. It is difficult to determine the influence of popular books
                    beyond studying the sales figures that established their availability. A work's impact on
                    the untold thousands, including the farmer waiting for his day at the funeral podium, can only be
                    presumed, but research concerning the readership of the Ridpath volumes can establish that diverse
                    Americans received historical lessons by reading Ridpath or by personal contacts with him. Among
                    prominent individuals who state their intellectual debt to Ridpath are politicans Huey Long of 
                        Louisiana
                    , Albert Beveridge of Indiana, Carl Hayden of 
                        Arizona
                    , Governor Frank Lowden of 
                        Illinois
                    , President Grover 
                        Cleveland
                    , Jefferson Davis, William Jennings Bryan, and the famous populist pamphleteer Coin
                    Harvey. Reformers influenced include Ida M. Tarbell and David Graham Phillips. Literary figures who
                    praised Ridpath include Thomas Wolfe, James Whitcomb Riley, Jesse Weik, and General Lew Wallace.
                    Even the founder of the modern John Birch Society, Robert Welch, has acknowledged his interest in
                        Ridpath.30 What did these diverse individuals find in popular history?
            
               
                  30 Albert J. Beveridge, David Graham Phillips, and Jesse W. Weik were
                        honor students of Ridpath's when he was teaching at Indiana Asbury University. Weik
                        later would write with William H. Herndon the famous study of Abraham Lincoln that created so
                        many of the historical myths around Lincoln. On Ridpath as a teacher see Smith, "John
                        Clark Ridpath," 101–43, 201–25. Riley, a longtime friend of
                        Ridpath, once said of Ridpath's scholarly efforts: "his laurel crown should
                        weigh a ton, its every leaf wrought out of the rarest emerald and dewed with dripping
                        diamonds." James Whitcomb Riley to John Clark Ridpath, April 9, 1892, James Whitcomb
                        Riley manuscripts (Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        ). On Huey Long see T. Harry Williams, Huey Long (
                            New York
                        , 1969), 21, 34, 77; and Huey Long, Every Man a King: The Autobiography
                            of Huey P. Long (
                            Chicago
                        , 1964), 339–40. For a study of Carl Hayden see Oren Arnold,
                        "Close-Up: Hayden," Point West, IV (February, 1962), 18. On
                        Coin Harvey see Richard Hofstadter's essay, "Free Silver and the Mind of
                        ‘Coin Harvey,’" in Hofstadter, The Paranoid Style in
                            American Politics and Other Essays (
                            New York
                        , 1965), 301. Ida Tarbell's and Governor Frank Lowden's
                        endorsements are mentioned in Mark Sullivan, Our Times: The 
                                United States
                            , 1900–1925 (6 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1927), II, 51–55; Andrew Turnbull, Thomas Wolfe: A
                            Biography (
                            New York
                        , 1967), 1–10; on Robert Welch see Peter Schrag,
                        "America's Other Radicals," Harper's
                        Magazine, LCXLI (August, 1970), 38–43. Other glowing endorsements of
                        Ridpath's scholarship can be found in a publisher's pamphlet entitled America's Greatest Historian: John Clark Ridpath (n.p., n.d.), which
                        is in the possession of the author. Many educators including the presidents of Smith and Amherst
                        colleges and 
                            Brown
                         and 
                            Michigan
                         universities are quoted in this pamphlet.
            
            
            Popular historians like Ridpath synthesized, often very accurately, the mood of the country. As the
                    American nation in 1876 began to heal the real and psychological wounds of the Civil War, Ridpath
                    published in his Popular History of the 
                            United States
                        
                one of the first historical explanations of the causes of the Civil War that
                    avoided the immediacy and moralism of the slavery issue. Ridpath's synthesis indicated five
                    general causes of the war: (1) "The different construction put upon the national
                    constitution by the people of the North and South." (2) "The different system of
                    labor in the North and South." (3) "The want of intercourse between the people of
                    the North and South and the publication of sectional books." (4) "The evil
                    influence of demagogues." (5) "Statesmanship at a low ebb."31 Ridpath was not necessarily correct in these views; but he does indicate that the
                    country was getting ready psychologically to negotiate the Compromise of 1877, and he does quite
                    amazingly anticipate many of the later arguments in Civil War historiography. In regard to other
                    major American historiographical themes, Ridpath in some books seemed at least partially to
                    anticipate Turner's frontier thesis of 1893. Ridpath wrote that "on the border of
                    the primeval forests" in the primitive frontier farmhouses and settlements, "the
                    spirit of liberty pervaded every breast." The American frontiersmen's love of
                    freedom was most "intense," and "hostility to tyranny" was
                    "a universal passion."32
            
            Most popular historians attempted to meet Mr. Dooley's criticism of historical works that
                    failed to treat individuals' daily lives; in so doing, they wrote the first social
                    histories. Edward Eggleston, popular writer, novelist, Hoosier superb, and historian, has only
                    recently achieved the recognition he deserves as father of American social history.33 Ridpath, too, wrote interesting and vital social history. According to Ridpath, history was
                    simply "the movement of the human race interpreted … the facts and events of
                    human life arranged on the 
                  
                     31 John Clark Ridpath, Popular History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1876), 486–87. Sylvia, "The Slavery Issue in Northern
                            School Readers," Journal Daughty Fries of Popular
                                Culture, IV (Winter, 1971), 723. Fries used Ridpath's schoolbook edition
                            as one of the several in her survey, and she noted his handling of the causes of the Civil
                            War in a general way but failed, rather surprisingly in view of the place of publication, to
                            realize the ramifications for the popular mind of a book like Ridpath's.
                  
                     32 Ridpath, Popular History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1876), 229.
                  
                     33 Merle Curti, Human Nature in American Historical
                                Thought (
                                Columbia
                            , Mo., 1968), 62.
               
                     lines of the causes that produce them."34 All events of the hand and mind were important, from the building of "ice huts
                    … to poetry."35 He devoted long detailed chapters,
                    particularly in his multivolume works, The History of the World and Great Races of Mankind, to the daily life of the people. Science, often neglected as a
                    subject for historians, received necessary attention. The impact of important inventions were
                    discussed. In Ridpath's histories of the 
                        United States
                     long chapters on the Centennial celebration at 
                        Philadelphia
                     and on other world's fairs showed the author's devotion to events
                    that had captured the imagination of the American people. Ridpath even prepared a special edition of
                    a history of the 
                        United States
                     for the 
                        Chicago
                     World Fair in 1893. It seems evident that he and other popular historians were writing
                    "new history" long before James Harvey Robinson's famous call to the
                    profession at the beginning of the twentieth century.36
            
            The great value of taking popular history seriously lies simply in the insights gained about the
                    popular mind and broad intellectuality of the period. The popular historians generally, and Ridpath
                    certainly, were given to verbosity and could not avoid filling pages with their own obiter dicta, which in themselves provide insights. For example, Aryanism was rampant in
                    Ridpath's writings. He felt that the Aryan had "the noblest achievements"
                    and was the prime "discoverer of causes."37 The Chinese,
                    however, a favorite Ridpath target, stood "dazed" before machinery.38 He further accused Chinese science of assigning the center of intelligence to the
                    stomach. Finally, Ridpath warned missionaries that their children should not remain in the East too
                    long or they might develop slanted eyes. Sexist statements abounded in popular history as well as in
                    professional history. Henry Northrup's Life and Deeds of General Sherman
                    announced that Sherman "formed 
                  
                     34 John Clark Ridpath, "Is History a Science?" The Arena, XVIII (November, 1897), 695.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid. Daniel J. Boorstin, The Americans: The National
                                Experience (
                                New York
                            , 1965), certainly agrees with this approach. See particularly pages
                            10–20 and the section "Search for Symbol," 327–90.
                  
                     36 Callcott, History in the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 83–107. John Clark Ridpath, 
                        
                                    United States
                                : A History (Columbian Edition; 
                                New York
                            , 1893). Also James Harvey Robinson, The New History: Essays
                                Illustrating the Modern Historical Outlook (
                                New York
                            , 1912).
                  
                     37 John Clark Ridpath, Great Races of Mankind: An Account
                                of the Ethnic Origin, Primitive Estate, Early Migrations, Social Evolution and Present
                                Conditions and Promises of the Principal Families of Men, Together with a Preliminary
                                Inquiry on the Time, Place and Manner of the Beginning (4 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1893), I, 253.
                  
                     38
                     Ibid., IV, 184.
               
                     impressions as rapidly as a woman."39 Ridpath's populist reformism showed often and vividly; he called the House of
                    Lords "a dilapidated roost for croaking birds of the middle ages."40
            
            Popular history often anticipated later concerns of historians. Violence, for example, has only
                    recently received much deserved attention.41 Popular history certainly dealt
                    with violence. Such works as Our Country in War, Kings of the Battlefield, Military
                        Heroes of the 
                            United States
                        , The Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World are only a small sample of the many
                    that showed the fascination with war and violence that may have helped their readers prepare
                    themselves for the wars and violence of the twentieth century.42 Ridpath was
                    also concerned with violent episodes, especially those in military history. He devoted pages to
                    obscure battles and encouraged in his readers a worship of heroic, military figures.
                    Ridpath's description of General James A. Garfield's wild ride to join General
                    George H. Thomas's forces at Chickamauga was classic.43 Complete books
                    on assassinations and assassins were rushed into print. Ridpath did one on Charles Guiteau, and his
                        Garfield has over one hundred pages of macabre medical bulletins.44 All of this suggests the emotional impact of events on a 
                  
                     39 Henry Davenport Northrup, Life and Deeds of General
                                Sherman (Waukesha, Wis., 1891), 125.
                  
                     40 John Clark Ridpath, Life and Times of William E.
                                Gladstone … (
                                New York
                            , 1898), 10.
                  
                     41 For the most complete treatment of American violence see Hugh Davis
                            Graham and Ted Robert Gunn, eds., The History of Violence in America:
                                Historical and Comparative Perspectives (
                                New York
                            , 1969). Also Richard Maxwell 
                                Brown
                            , Strains of Violence: Historical Studies of American Violence and
                                Vigilantism (
                                New York
                            , 1975) is an excellent study.
                  
                     42 Murat Halstead, Our Country in War and Our Relations
                                with all Nations (n.p., 1898); W. Sanford Ramey, Kings of the Battle
                                Field; Comprising a Series of Biographical Sketches of the Most Distinguished Military
                                Leaders, of Europe and America, Who Have Contributed Their Life Services to Establish
                                and Perpetrate the Freedom of Their Fellow-Men and the Sacred Honor of Their
                            Country (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1884); Hartwell James, Military Heroes of the 
                                    United States
                                 from 
                                    Lexington
                                 to Saratoga (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1899). Edward S. Creasey, The Fifteen Decisive Battles of the
                                World … (
                                New York
                            , n.d.).
                  
                     43 John Clark Ridpath, The Life and Work of James A.
                                Garfield (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1881), 155–57. Allan Peskin's Garfield
                                    (
                        Kent, Ohio
                     , 1978), 208–209, still relies heavily
                            on Ridpath's account. It is the most recent and scholarly biography of Garfield.
                  
                     44 See John Clark Ridpath, The Life and Trial of Guiteau
                                the Assassin: Being a Sketch of His Early Career; His Dastardly Attack upon the
                                President; the Conduct of the Murderer in Prison; His Autobiography; the Strange Drama
                                of the Court Room; the Testimony of Experts and Celebrated Witnesses; the Progress of
                                Judicial Proceeding; Striking Scenes and the Trial and the Verdict and THE SENTENCE OF
                                DEATH (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1881); Ridpath, Life and Work of James A. Garfield,
                            517–639.
               
                     society. The human experiences that are distilled in the
                    reactions of a populace to a war, to important diplomatic changes, or to assassinations need to be
                    studied. By ignoring the spate of popular history books issued after a prominent
                    death—for example, after the Garfield and William McKinley assassinations—or
                    after imperialistic ventures or major wars, historians overlook avenues of insights into the mass
                    mind. These volumes were particularly evident around the time of the Spanish American War and the
                    rise of the American empire.45 Sources such as these would be particularly
                    valuable for those trained in psychohistory.
            Along with other popular historians of the nineteenth century, Ridpath anticipated the interest of
                    contemporary society in charismatic leadership. For example, he indicated that history
                    "sent out her tallest and best sons to explore the line of march, and to select the spot
                    for the next camping ground."46 In another instance Ridpath quoted:
                        
                        When some great work is waiting to be done,
                        And Destiny ransacks the city for a man
                        To do it; finding none therein, she turns
                        To the fecundity of Nature's woods,
                        And there, beside some Western hill or stream
                        She enters a rude cabin unannounced.47
                  
                     According to Ridpath, this particular Destiny found its "Mother of the
                    Future"—Mrs. Garfield!
            With all the Ridpath talk of Destiny, it is no wonder that a young Huey Long, who was a book agent
                    for the Ridpath volumes, developed a life-long fascination for Ridpath's reasonings and
                        interpretations.48 Secretary of State John Hay's remark about the
                    cosmic tendencies of the American nation has been noted by many, but the popular historians such as
                    Ridpath inculcated a generation with cosmic causations. Ridpath explained: "There is
                    certainly an irresistible cosmic force which draws men to the West."49
                    Also, long after Bancroft's death and 
                  
                     45 See, for example, Trumbull White, Our New
                            Possessions (n.p., 1898); Murat Halstead, The Life and Achievements of
                                Admiral Dewey from Montpelier to Manila (
                                Chicago
                            , 1899); Samuel Fellows, Life of William McKinley, Our Martyred
                                President (
                                Chicago
                            , 1901).
                  
                     46 John Clark Ridpath, James Otis, the Pre-Revolutionist:
                                A Brief Interpretation of the Life and the Work of a Patriot (
                                Chicago
                            , 1898), 8–9.
                  
                     47 Ridpath, Life and Work of James A. Garfield, 11.
                  
                     48 Long, Every Man a King, 339–40. See
                            Williams, Huey Long, 21, 34, for an account of the Long family's
                            reading of the Ridpath history volume by volume.
                  
                     49 Ridpath, History of the World, II, 399.
               
                     after the new scientific historians scorned such
                    interpretation, the popular historians continued to insist that a benevolent and virtually American
                    God directed the nation's destiny and progress.
            In regard to style, the subscription histories and writings made literary padding almost a tradition.
                    The rule was the longer the book, the larger the price. Mark Twain, who sold most of his books by
                    subscription and felt any other way was intended merely for private circulation, complained of the
                    agony necessary to expand a 300-page idea to a 600-page one.50
                    Ridpath's memorial biography of James G. Blaine did not really need to say that
                    "the sea is full of inspiration and grandeur," nor was it vital to know that
                    Blaine's coffin rested on beds of roses, violets, ferns, and appropriately arranged palm
                        leaves.51 Nevertheless, Ridpath's age and readers demanded a
                    flowery style and many digressions, and he responded eagerly. Socrates was described as having a
                    "magnificent ugly face" but one with "eyes that darted their Promethean
                    fire into souls of mystery and scorched the wings of falsehood."52
                    Ridpath's contemporaries praised his style. The 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Express said:
            
                    There is recognized in all his writings a high plain of purity and fascination which must be
                        appreciated and indeed it has been remarked by not a few that his use of language is simply
                        phenomenal in that it commands the whole attention of the ripest scholar, and yet is so simple
                        in style that the average reader or school child cannot fail to be attracted and fascinated.53
               
                
            Popular history also made use of illustrations, drawing on the new printing technology which had been
                    available since the Civil War. Although their major purpose was to enhance the attractiveness of the
                    volumes, the pictures themselves reveal a great deal about the readers for whom they were
                        intended.54 Ridpath's books sometimes contained hundreds of
                    illustrations per volume, all of which reflected the violence of history, the cult of heroic
                    leadership, and the minutiae of daily life; and in an age of Victorian repression of sexuality,
                    Ridpath frequently managed to titillate his audiences with pictures of bare-breasted women. Thomas
                    Wolfe in his autobiographical Look Homeward, Angel perhaps best reveals the
                    effects of Ridpath's use of illustrations:
            
               
                  50 Justin Kaplan, Mr. Clemens and Mark Twain (
                            New York
                        , 1966), 62.
               
                  51 John Clark Ridpath, General Seldon Connor, and other eminent friends of
                        Mr. Blaine, Life and Work of James G. Blaine (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1893), 220, 229.
               
                  52 Ridpath, History of the World, II, 588.
               
                  53
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Express, clipping in Ridpath's scrapbook, Freebairn Collection.
               
                  54 An interesting work along this general line is Richard Rudisill, Mirror Image: The Influence of the Daguerreotype on American Society
                        (Albuquerque, 1971).
            
            
            
            
            
               BUILDING OF THE TEMPLE OF WARKA, TIME OF URUKH
               
               Reproduced from John Clark Ridpath, Cyclopedia of Universal
                        History … (4 vols., 
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1885, 1890), I, 115.
            
            
            
               FALL OF THE ALAMO
               
               Reproduced from John (Mark Ridpath, Cyclopedia of Universal
                        History (4 vols. 
                            Cincinnati
                        . 1885, 1890), IV. 69
            
            
            
               ADVENTURERS EN ROUTE OVERLAND
                            TO CALIFORNIA
               
               Reproduced from John Clark Ridpath, Cyclopedia of Universal
                        History … (4 vols., 
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1885, 1890), IV, 83.
            
            
            
                    The books he delighted in most were three huge calf-skin volumes called Ridpath's History of the World. Their numberless pages were illustrated with
                        hundreds of drawings, engravings, wood-cuts: he followed the progression of the centuries
                        pictorially before he could read. The pictures of battle delighted him most of all. Exulting in
                        the howl of the beaten wind about the house, the thunder of great trees, he committed himself to
                        the dark storm, releasing the mad devil's hunger all men have in them, which lusts for
                        a darkness, the wind, and incalculable speed. The past unrolled to him in separate and enormous
                        visions; he built unending legends upon the pictures of the kings of 
                            Egypt
                        , charioted swiftly by soaring horses, and something infintely old and recollective
                        seemed to awaken in him as he looked on fabulous monsters, the twined beards and huge
                        beast-bodies of Assyrian kings, the walls of Babylon. His brain swarmed with
                        pictures—Cyrus directing the charge, the spear-forest of the Macedonian phalanx, and
                        splintered oars, the numberless huddle of the ships at Salamis, the feasts of Alexander, the
                        terrific melee of the knights, the shattered lances, the axe and the sword, the massed pikemen,
                        the beleaguered walls, the scaling ladders heavy with climbing men hurled backward, the Swiss
                        who flung his body on the lances, the press of horse and foot, the gloomy forests of Gaul and
                        Caesarian conquests.55
               
                
            Although popular historians and their histories influenced many Americans, criticism of the genre
                    abounds. The most negative evaluations center on the accusations that popular historians were not
                    original scholars, that they borrowed too heavily from others, that they failed to use their sources
                    critically, and that they put too little emphasis on the use of primary sources. Some were
                    undoubtedly guilty, as some professional historians were and are, but Ridpath, along with Lossing
                    and others, made diligent use of primary sources. Ridpath, for example, read Latin and Greek, and
                    his History of the World shows careful attention to the ancient sources. Like
                    Lossing, Ridpath traveled widely to many historic and geographic areas throughout the world
                    searching for records, and in some areas of methodology he was something of a pioneer. In his
                    biographies of Garfield and Blaine, long before the vogue for oral history, Ridpath made use of
                    interviews with participants in historical events;56 and in his article,
                    "The Mixed Populations of 
                        Chicago
                    ," for the Chautauquan in 1891 Ridpath showed immaginative
                    uses of census data and an awareness of ethnicity in history. Further, the article broke new ground
                    in stressing the role of the city in history at a time when most 
                  
                     55 Thomas Wolfe, Look Homeward, Angel: A Story of a
                                Buried Life (
                                New York
                            , 1929), 61–62.
                  
                     56 Ridpath, Life and Work of James A. Garfield, and
                            Ridpath, Life and Work of James G. Blaine.
                  
               
                     historians were following the dictum of the Johns Hopkins
                    school that history was merely past politics.57
            
            Along with other prominent historians, such as Francis Parkman and John Bach McMaster, Ridpath might
                    be accused of plagiarism by modern scholars. As George H. Callcott notes in his History
                        in the 
                            United States
                        
               , however, a reliance on accepted authorities and/or literary masterpieces was
                    the common procedure among many popular writers. Scholars whose investigations attempt to prove
                    nineteenth-century plagiarism often stop with the plagiarized fact and show themselves not
                    sufficiently understanding of the literary tenor of the times.58 That some
                    plagiarism existed should not prevent the study of popular histories, particularly as valuable
                    social evidence for understanding various eras in American history.
            An eventual complete survey of popular history and historians will support, and possibly add a
                    dimension to, Henry Nash Smith's analysis of the fusion of "concept and
                    emotion," a technique Smith used in understanding myth and symbol in literature.59 The general reading public often accepted any historical writing as complete
                    truth because of its factual base. The study of myths that were vividly portrayed in popular history
                    as fact might help to account for the depths of Anglo- 
                  
                     57 John Clark Ridpath, "The Mixed Populations of 
                                Chicago
                            ," Chautauquan, XII (January, 1891),
                            483–93.
                  
                     58 It is an obvious and easy point to prove Ridpath's
                            over-reliance on Edward Gibbon, both in conceptual matters and in detail. For a classic
                            example see almost any of Ridpath's volume III of his History of the
                                World (9 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1910), which deals with 
                                Rome
                            . Specifically, see Ridpath, History of the World, III, 314,
                            and Edward Gibbon, The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1948), I, 82–83. In this case Ridpath manufactures a few flourishes
                            to Gibbon's already exciting details. For example, Ridpath adds five additional
                            gladiator contests for the dissolute Commodus and implies that people loved to see their
                            emperor in combat. (This would perhaps reflect the "waving the bloody
                            shirt" tendency of post-Civil War American politics and help ready a populace for
                            Theodore Roosevelt's bellicosity.) Gibbon says the populace was disgusted. On other
                            exposes of plagiarism Eric Goldman's John Bach McMaster: American
                                Historian (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1943) is perhaps the only one that is justified. McMaster's career
                            lasted well into the twentieth century when the forms of literary plagiarism were not
                            acceptable. Articles such as Richard C. Vitzthum, "The Historian as Editor: Francis
                            Parkman's Reconstruction of Sources in Montcalm and Wolfe," Journal of American History, LIII, (December, 1966), 471–87, seem to
                            miss the point that literary and stylistic borrowings were acceptable practices in the
                            nineteenth century. Callcott's History in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      seems to take the right attitude by looking beyond plagiarism as part
                            of the literary tenor of popular writers to the messages the writers imparted.
                  
                     59 Henry Nash Smith, Virgin Land: The American West as
                                Symbol and Myth (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1950), particularly chapters on dime novels, pp.
                        99–135.
               
                     Saxonism, Social Darwinism, sexism, antisemitism,
                    antiorientalism, and other emotion-charged thought patterns in the American culture of the era. The
                    stereotyping and mythic creation of archetypal figures and institutions as history, which certainly
                    occur in Ridpath's work, must have had some influence on popular beliefs and public
                    opinion; and other historians have called attention to the importance of myths, such as America as
                    the Garden of Eden and America as the redeemer nation, in their writings.60
                    However, little or no attempt has been made to explain satisfactorily the methods by which these
                    ideas reached the popular mind, if they did, or how they might have been changed and transformed in
                    the process by popular writers.61
            
            Numerous other insights could be gained by recognizing the importance of popular history as a source
                    of information about the culture. Lossing, Headley, and Abbott await biographers; other
                    practitioners such as Edward Everett Hale and Murat Halstead, who have been studied in modern time,
                    need further analysis concerning their histories. Popular magazines, such as Henry Dawson's
                        Historical Magazine (1857–1875) and Magazine of
                        Western History (1884–1895), need study, as do the historical accounts often
                    found in the daily and weekly papers of the period 1870–1920. A thorough history of the
                    subscription book trade would contribute much. Analyses of the quantity and type of books sold by
                    subscription with reference to some of the techniques of the sociology of literature would be
                    valuable. Travel accounts by various domestic and foreign commentators, 
                  
                     60 See, for example, Richard W. B. Lewis, The American
                                Adam: Innocence, Tragedy, and Tradition in the Nineteenth Century (
                                Chicago
                            , 1955); Ernest Lee Tuveson, Redeemer Nation: The Idea of
                                America's Millennial Role (
                                Chicago
                            , 1968); David W. Noble, The Eternal Adams and the New World
                            Garden (
                                New York
                            , 1968).
                  
                     61 For example, one of the best explanations of Social Darwinism,
                            Richard Hofstadter's Social Darwinism in America (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1944), does not really delve into the popular mind. Other concerns in addition
                            to the study of American myths might benefit from a thorough survey of popular history. For
                            example, William A. Williams, The Roots of the American Empire (
                                New York
                            , 1969), which delineated an open marketplace theory in an attempt to explain
                            the midwestern and American imperial attitudes of the late nineteenth century, needs to be
                            placed in a societal framework. The rising popularity of volumes of History of
                                the World, History of Civilizations, Story of the Great Races of Mankind, History of
                                Empires, and so on, which poured from the nation's presses, particularly
                            from the midwestern publishing centers of 
                                Cincinnati
                             and 
                                Chicago
                            , might partially explain how the "distended society," to use
                            Robert Wiebe's term for the era, might have begun to develop a world view and
                            consciousness. This newly aware society, then, could begin to understand the concept of a
                            world marketplace if Williams's findings are correct.
               
                     always popular in American reading tastes, contained much
                    historical speculation. One good example is the work of John L. Stoddard whose volumes were often
                    the only contact in many homes of anything of a historical nature.62 Considering
                    the popularity and tremendous numbers of nineteenth-century almanacs, which hung on a hook in almost
                    every kitchen, little research has been done on them as literature, particularly in regard to the
                    historical data and stories found in them.63 A synthesis of the social and
                    historical ideas expressed in the extremely popular county histories should be possible for each
                    state. Concerning the populist movement, a wealth of "People's"
                    encyclopedias and titles in "People's" literature provide an avenue to a
                    literary populism that seems ignored. All of these pertain to the years from 1870 to 1920. Other
                    eras have the same unlimited possibilities. Future results of these investigations should provide
                    historians with greater depth and objectivity when they discuss various components of the American
                    culture and that elusive concept of a national character.
            Ridpath and other popular historians of the late nineteenth century construed their roles as
                    historians in a broad and societal manner, and most of them were free from the strictures of
                    institutions. Ridpath was a teacher, reformer, orator, politician, editor, and journalist, and he
                    believed that the historian's most important duty was to engage in a dialogue with the
                    American people. He believed in the intellectual importance of the average American. The role of the
                    historian is often construed much more narrowly today by professional American 
                  
                     62 John Lawson Stoddard, John L. Stoddard's
                                Lectures; Illustrated and Embellished with Views of the World's Famous Places
                                and People (10 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1905).
                  
                     63 Much work has been done with colonial almanacs and, of course, with
                            the famous Farmer's Almanacs. See, for example, 
                                Marion
                             Barber Stowell, Early American Almanacs: The Colonial Weekday
                                Bible (
                                New York
                            , 1976), and George L. Kittredge, The Old Farmer and His Almanack:
                                Being Some Observations on Life and Manners in New 
                                    England
                                 a Hundred Years Ago (
                                Boston
                            , 1904). James Harvey Young in The Toadstool Millionaires: a Social
                                History of Patent Medicine in America before Federal Regulation (
                                Princeton
                            , 1961) used nineteenth-century patent medicine almanacs extensively but did not
                            analyze them as popular literature. In addition to the Farmer's
                                Almanac, there were hundreds of others. Sixteen million copies of Ayer's Almanac sold in one year. See 
                                Milton
                             Drake's extensive bibliography, Almanacs of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1962). Russel B. Nye, a distinguished scholar of American popular culture,
                            says almanacs were "the most widely-distributed medium of general information and
                            until the spread of journalism, the most influential." Russel B. Nye, The Unembarrassed Muse: The Popular Arts in America (
                                New York
                            , 1970), 92.
               
                     historians and seems to allow for less diversity.64 Oscar Handlin worried in 1971 that the historical discipline was "in
                    crisis" and had surrendered history to what he called propagandists, television
                    commentators, politicians, dramatists, social engineers, novelists, and journalists.65 What Handlin and others did not understand is that American society and the American
                    people today continue to help decide just who are the historians.66 Popular
                    historians of the mass media, such as Alex Haley and Gerald Green, have important messages and
                    should not be ignored.67 Their following in the mass audience also demonstrates
                    that the need for history in society still remains large, as large as it was for the subscription
                    audiences of the nineteenth-century popular histories.
            New generations of historians, assisted but not dominated by the new social sciences, must be urged
                    to keep humanistic visions in their histories. Walt Whitman said it simply in the nineteenth
                    century: 
                        Who are you indeed who would talk or sing to America?
                        Have you studied out the land, its idioms and men?
                        Are you really of the whole People?
                        Have you vivified yourself from the maternity of these states?68
                  
                     In the present age, Ralph Ellison's "invisible man" shouted in
                    the midst of a race riot an important question in an age of 
                  
                     64 The conceptualization of the roles of historians has changed from
                            the days of Francois Voltaire through Leopold von Ranke to those of the institutional
                            professionals of the twentieth century. Perhaps attention should be given again to George
                            Bancroft's delineation of three types of scholars. The lowest kind sought only
                            personal advancement; a higher group, the "scholar-politician," sought to
                            advance nations. In a broad and deep sense these can be called popular historians. The
                            highest scholars according to Bancroft were the ones of genius who unfolded "truths
                            of universal importance." These genuises will always survive and prosper whether
                            they be the William Faulkners, the Charles and Mary Beards, or the Karl Marxes.
                            Unfortunately, institutionalism in the twentieth century has forced many toward the first
                            category. The best discussion of this belief is in Nye, George Bancroft,
                            93–94. On historians in politics see Walter Laqueur and George L. Mosse, eds.,
                                Historians in Politics (
                                London
                            , 1974).
                  
                     65 Oscar Handlin, "History: A Discipline in Crisis,"
                                American Scholar, XL (Summer, 1971), 447–65.
                  
                     66 Daniel J. Boorstin about the same time wondered if the nation had
                            "wandered out of history." Daniel J. Boorstin, "A Case of
                            Hypochondria," Newsweek, LXXVI (July 6, 1970), 28.
                  
                     67 A good article that concentrates on television history is William
                            H. Cohn, "History for the Masses: Television Portrays the Past," Journal of Popular Culture, X (Fall, 1976), 280–90.
                  
                     68 Walt Whitman, Leaves of Grass (
                                New York
                            , 1965), 349.
               
                     professionalization: "Where are the historians
                        today?"69 Popular history and popular historians, past or present,
                    can no longer be ignored. In them is found the richness of new material and the power of the
                    "whole people."
            
               
                  69 Ralph Ellison, Invisible Man (
                            New York
                        , 1972), 332.
            
         
         
         
            David D. Banta's Memorial to John R. Kerr, Blind Printer and Pioneer Editor in 
                        Johnson County
                    , Indiana
            
                    John V. Bergen
                    ∗
                
            John R. Kerr, though blind, introduced the first local newspaper to the people of 
                        Johnson County
                    , Indiana, in 1845. Kerr's 
                        Franklin
                    
                    Examiner was probably not the best smalltown newspaper in the state,1 but the six-year run of the weekly while it was under Kerr's editorship
                    provides a partial yet significant record of life in a county-seat town and rural community at the
                    middle of the nineteenth century.2 As a local historian in the later nineteenth
                    century, Judge David D. Banta of 
                        Franklin
                     was responsible for preparing the only known biographical sketch of John R. Kerr and
                    for preserving copies of the Examiner for later use and eventual microfilming.
                    Before featuring below Banta's memorial essay about Kerr and his Examiner,3 it is important to establish a background concerning the
                    principals involved in this episode in local history.
            
               
                  ∗ John V. Bergen is professor of geography and university map
                        library curator at Western 
                            Illinois
                         University, Macomb. He is director and editor of an atlas-history project (in
                        progress) for the 
                            Johnson County
                         Historical Society, 
                            Franklin
                        , Indiana.
               
                  1 George S. Cottman found some 250 Indiana periodicals to have been in
                        print in 1850, but he did not cite the 
                            Franklin
                        
                        Examiner among several selected examples described in "The Early
                        Newspapers of Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, II (September,
                        1906), 197–21. James Hannan 
                            Butler
                         refers to at least two dozen papers not including the Examiner in
                        his "Indiana Newspapers, 1829–1860," Indiana Magazine
                            of History, XXII (September, 1926), 297–333. The Examiner
                        and its editor are recognized briefly in Ronald Beathard, Cyndi Lach, and Mark Popovich, comps.,
                            Indiana Newspaper History: An Annotated Bibliography (
                            Muncie
                        , Ind., 1974), 1–55.
               
                  2 The weekly 
                            Franklin
                        
                        Examiner, published from December 13, 1845, to February 13, 1852, is available
                        on microfilm at the Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , and the 
                            Franklin
                        -
                            Johnson County
                         Public Library, 
                            Franklin
                        , Indiana.
               
                  3 "Sketch of the Life and Times of John R. Kerr, the Blind
                        Printer," 
                            Indianapolis
                         Daily Sentinel, February 17, 1884, p. 12. The writer first found
                        the Banta "sketch" as a typescript copied in the 1930s from the original
                        publication by a grandson of Judge David D. Banta. A search of the newspaper microfilm revealed
                        that not only was the reference to the original article in the Sentinel
                    
            
            
            John R. Kerr claimed a 160-acre tract of public land in central Indiana in October, 1833 (see Figure
                        1).4 He and his wife had come to settle near relatives and friends who had
                    preceded them from eastern 
                        Tennessee
                     into 
                        Johnson County
                    , which reflected a predominant migration from 
                        Kentucky
                    . The Kerrs soon moved to the county seat, 
                        Franklin
                    , where a few years later Kerr opened a print shop. Having learned as a child the value
                    of reading, Kerr cherished the printed word and must have been deeply grieved by the deterioration
                    and eventual loss of his eyesight. This misfortune he overcame to a remarkable degree, his major
                    achievement possibly being his successful publication of the Examiner.
               5 His dedication to the weekly newspaper continued for more than six years
                    before he moved to Gosport, an aspiring White River town in 
                        Owen County
                    . He established that town's first newspaper, the Chronotype,
                    which had a briefer existence than did the Examiner; no known copies survive.6 Various state gazetteers list John R. Kerr as postmaster in Gosport until
                    about 1872 and as a bookseller until shortly before he died in 1880.7
            
            
               incomplete but also that the date was incorrect. This typescript and numerous others are
                        included in the Banta Family Papers, David Demaree Banta Indiana Collection, 
                            Franklin
                         College Library, 
                            Franklin
                        , Indiana.
               
                  4 The Tract Book of the 
                            United States
                         Land Office at 
                            Indianapolis
                         shows that on October 26, 1833, John R. Kerr, of 
                     Greene County, Tennessee
                  ,
                        entered a 160-acre tract of land in the NW 1/2 Section 31, Township 13 North, Range 5 East. This
                        tract was located about one mile east of Hurricane Creek and one-and-one-half miles west of
                        Little Sugar Creek in eastern 
                     Johnson County.
                                Indianapolis
                   Land District Tract Book
                        No. 5 (bound copy incorrectly titled 
                            Crawfordsville
                         Land District Tract Book No. 7), Microfilm Reel Number A-8, p. 384 (Archives
                        Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .) Copies of the original entries are also listed in Entry Book B (Tract Book),
                        County Clerk's Office, 
                            Johnson County
                         Courthouse, 
                            Franklin
                        , Indiana.
               
                  5 The 1850 manuscript federal census for 
                            Johnson County
                         identifies John R. Kerr as a head of household in 
                            Franklin
                         on the "14th August 1850." He was described as age forty-one, an
                        "Ed. & Publisher of paper," and "Blind." Living with
                        him were his wife Mary; Elizabeth Kerr, age sixty-four, possibly his mother; his cousin Francis
                        M., age twenty-four and a "printer"; and a nine-year-old girl and a
                        seventeen-year-old boy who could have been wards or orphans. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850,
                        population schedules for 
                            Johnson County
                        , Indiana (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. M-432, roll 155), p. 150.
               
                  6 According to an 1884 
                            Owen County
                         history, "Several papers have been published in Gosport at different
                        times, the first of which was the Chronotype, established in 1852 by John R.
                        Kerr, who formerly edited a political paper in 
                            Johnson County
                        . The Chronotype was a small sheet, Democratic in politics, and
                        devoted principally to the moral and educational interests of the town. Mr. Kerr edited the
                        paper about seven or eight years, when he sold it to [Frank] Kerr, who continued it but a short
                        time." Charles Blanchard, ed., Counties of day and Owen, Indiana:
                            Historical and Biographical (
                            Chicago
                        , 1884), 714.
               
                  7 John R. Kerr is listed both as postmaster and bookseller in Gosport by
                        the first comprehensive business directory issued for the state of Indiana. James Sutherland,
                        comp., G.W. Halves' Indiana State Gazetteer and Business
               
            
            
            
               FIGURE 1
               Courtesy John V. Bergen.
            
            
            Because relatively few small-town weekly papers are available in any form for Indiana in the 1840s,
                    the layout and content of the Examiner and Kerr's comments about his
                    struggle to edit and publish a country newspaper are significant.8 Kerr
                    obviously tried to give his 
                        Johnson County
                     readers a wide-ranging selection of news and literature in his Democratic paper. At the
                    same time his political and social biases received extra attention. For example, Kerr reserved
                    considerable space for the history and activities of the American Colonization Society, in which he
                    and other prominent Franklinites were active locally. He advocated local participation in national
                    and international causes, notably African (Liberian) colonization, famine relief for the Scots and
                    Irish, the American Sunday School Union, and the Mexican War.
            From big-city papers Kerr reprinted articles of national significance on such topics as the Mexican
                    War, the Mormon migration, European unrest, the 
                        Oregon
                     question, the concerts of Jenny Lind, and congressional activity. He included
                    presidential addresses and especially anything relating to Democratic politics. The editor also
                    selectively included the sensationalism of the "penny press" by reporting human
                    tragedies —fire, murder, scandal—sometimes following a story for several
                    weeks. Selections from papers that might not have found their way directly to 
                        Franklin
                     were apparently taken from 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers, notably the State Sentinel.
            
            For state and regional news Kerr depended heavily upon such papers as the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier,9
                    
                        Madison
                    
                    Banner, 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Courier, 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Journal, 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    State Sentinel, 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Indiana Democrat, papers from neighboring counties, and occasionally other Indiana
                    papers. Small-town papers, which nearly all espoused a political philosophy, often concentrated on
                    such public issues as the Indiana Constitutional Convention of 1850. Kerr, who followed the
                    convention elections and proceedings carefully in 1850 and 1851, published the Constitution and
                    editorially urged readers to study it and vote.
            
               
                  Directory for 1858 and 1859 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1858), 110. Kerr is also listed in Hawes's directories for
                        1860–1861, 1862–1863, and 1864–1865 as well as in succeeding
                        state directories published by other companies every two or three years.
               
                  8 An interesting commentary on the hardships experienced by early Indiana
                        editors is included in 
                            Butler
                        , "Indiana Newspapers," 303–13.
               
                  9 For an appreciation of a pioneer editor in the important Ohio
                            River town of 
                            Madison
                        , see Frank S. Baker, "Michael C. Garber, Sr., and the Early Years of the 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana, Daily Courier," Indiana Magazine
                            of History, XLVII (December, 1952), 397–408.
            
            
            For women and the family, Kerr reprinted feature stories from popular magazines, several of which
                    also advertised in the Examiner. Kerr occasionally published serials and excerpts
                    from such national journals as Godey's Lady's Book, Graham's
                        American Monthly Magazine, Peterson's Ladies National Magazine, Saturday Evening
                    Post, and Arthur's Home Magazine. Seldom an issue passed without a
                    feature on some scientific topic—geology, carbon, rain, wind, vulcanism—and on
                    some special place and/or event, such as Lake Superior copper and 
                        California
                     gold discoveries. The editor thus supplemented the teaching of the local schools,
                    academies, seminaries, and the young 
                        Franklin
                     College, whose intellectual happenings and financial troubles were also featured
                    frequently in the Examiner.
            
            Kerr did report on local issues, sometimes writing his own editorial comments and sometimes
                    publishing letters to the editor. Among the ofttimes heated and lengthy exchanges of letters were
                    many debates about Christian attitudes toward temperance in all things—drinking, dancing,
                    and other moral issues. Kerr's editorial notes related to such varied local discussions as
                    plank roads and turnpikes, railroads, mail service, fire protection, sanitation, Sabbath schools,
                    gold in 
                        Brown county
                    , and a local agricultural society. Occasionally Kerr acted as a "Chamber of
                    Commerce" by writing a brief but glowing account of the advantages of "Our
                    Town" for industry and trade. This feeling of pride and confidence was a direct result of
                    the completion of the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad as well as the 
                        Franklin
                     and White River Plank Road (turnpike) before 1850 (see Figure 1).
                    Kerr may well have included such comments as inducements to his many advertisers to continue their
                    support of his efforts to put 
                        Franklin
                     "on the map"; no doubt he also anticipated that readers far beyond 
                        Johnson County
                     might see such notes reprinted in their local newspapers; yet, he made no major attempt
                    to engage in a promotional scheme as had been practiced in newspapers elsewhere.10
            
            Throughout Kerr's years as publisher, the Examiner was generally a
                    four-page paper. On the first page Kerr printed his "Terms," sometimes letters to
                    the editor, and articles reprinted from other papers (see Figure 2). On page two he typically 
                  
                     10
                            
                                Franklin
                            
                            Examiner, May 23, 1847, August 25, 1849. Walter R. Houf suggests that
                            editorial series promoting new towns were rare in Indiana but not entirely absent in pioneer
                            Hoosier newspapers. Walter R. Houf, "A Rural Indiana Weekly as Promoter: Editorials
                            from the Peru Gazette of 1839," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, LXV (March, 1969), 45–56.
               
                    
                    
                  
                  FIGURE 2
               
                     featured a variety of notes on Democratic politics, including
                    the names of candidates for office. He frequently published editorial notes on this page; for
                    example, his May 26, 1849, issue contained an editorial calling for "A Fire
                    Engine" plus a reminder for people to clean "cellars and other noxious
                    places." Page three was generally informational with a number of short
                    items—both facts and suggestions. As might be expected in a rapidly developing farm
                    community, Kerr often published features, news items, and advertisements relating directly to
                    agriculture. Also on page three of the May 26, 1849, issue he reprinted the "Town
                    Regulations," wherein the Board of Trustees called for a careful cleanup so that in
                    "the sickly season" 
                        Franklin
                     might avoid disease, especially cholera. More than two columns on page three and page
                    four were usually devoted to advertising, including illustrated national advertisements for disease
                    remedies.
            Kerr offered his Examiner to subscribers "at One Dollar a year in advance,
                    or within six months." At least once a year he renewed his plea for support of what he
                    reckoned to be "among the cheapest papers in the State." On April 23, 1846, for
                    example, he discussed competition with the cheap eastern papers heavy with literary writings and
                    sensationalism: 
                        Though it is impossible for country newspapers to compete in respect to cheapness with those
                            we have mentioned, their utility we believe to be incomparably greater to the
                            community…. There are certain things in all communities which can be supplied
                            along by a local paper….
                        [It] should not be forgotten … that an editor does not know by intuition, of all
                            that is transpiring in the community around him…. To be useful a paper should be
                            a medium for the interchanges of practical observations on all subjects connected with
                            science, rural economy, etc.
                     To keep his costs down Kerr encouraged advertisers as well as readers. On July 28, 1846, he
                    wrote: 
                        See here neighbors! Can you tell how Dr. Peggs [dealer in staple and fancy dry goods, all
                            kinds of wares, drugs, medicines, and clocks, etc.] comes to sell off goods so fast lately?
                        Yes; that is easily accounted for. He has just advertised his stock in the paper, and it goes
                            to families in all parts of the county, and is read by all members of the family. Each one
                            finds something named in the advertisement that they want. The old farmers, especially those
                            that have daughters, have these articles pointed out, and his memory so repeatedly refreshed
                            on the subject, that he comes to town with two or three daughters under convoy; then a
                            terrible reckoning takes place among laces, ribbons, parasols, bonnets, shawls, lawns,
                            jaconets, etc. That is the way it works. Those who advertise will sell.11
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     11 In 1846 Kerr offered advertising space by "one Square, or
                            less; three insertions for One Dollar; and for each subsequent insertion, Twenty-five
                        
               
                     Despite his financial struggles Kerr maintained a sense of
                    humor; witness his reminder published on January 23, 1849: "WOOD UP! Those in arrears for
                    last year, or wishing to pay their subscription in wood this year, would accommodate us, and perhaps
                    save the county the cost of an inquest, by sending it in before we freeze."
            Kerr frequently commented on his reasons for publishing the Examiner and couched
                    his pleas for support in less open terms. Near the end of the first year (November 17, 1846) he
                    thanked his patrons: "One important object which we had in view in the undertaking was to
                    test the practicability of the establishment of a paper at this place; and we are satisfied from the
                    limited experiment made, that the enterprise is not impracticable, though promising no very enticing
                    reward for the labor necessary to its prosecution." At the close of his third volume
                    (January 9, 1849) he wrote half a column reiterating some of his struggles and even apologizing for
                    any errors which might have appeared. Inviting his patrons to procure additional subscribers, he
                    noted that he would "feel amply rewarded if it yields us a reasonable compensation
                    … and withal that our efforts have been productive of some benefit to the community in
                    which we live."
            Early in 1850 Kerr moved his newspaper office from his home in 
                        Franklin
                     to a second-floor room on the north side of the public square (see Figure 3); his
                    comments about the plight of a country newspaper continued. In his "Prospectus of the Fifth
                    Volume" (January 19, 1850) he repeated a familiar refrain with a rare reference to his own
                    handicap: "Such an enterprise, always perplexing and difficult in a new place, shut out
                    from the advantages of the natural light, we have found peculiarly so. But we have thus far met with
                    encouragement and support sufficient to keep us from sinking under impending
                    embarrassments…." A year later, on February 8, 1851, he wrote: 
                        If five years of toil—without so much as a day's relaxation from our
                            avocation—entitles us in any degree to the confidence of the community on the
                            score of perseverance, then we may claim that confidence; and if our general course has been
                            such as to meet the approbation of our political friends and candid minds generally, it may
                            be the best guaranty we have to offer for the future.
                    
                    
                  Cents." By 1849 he offered discounts on long-term rates—three months
                            for three dollars, six months for five dollars, one year for nine dollars. A whole column
                            cost twenty dollars per year.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 3
                  Courtesy John V. Bergen.
               
                     Without previous warning in print, Kerr on February 7, 1852,
                    sadly announced his termination as editor:
            
                    Continued ill health, combined with other circumstances calculated to render the responsibilities
                        attached to our present position peculiarly burdensome, has induced us to make arrangements for
                        retiring at the end of the present volume, from the charge of the 
                            Franklin
                        
                        Examiner, which will pass under the control of Messrs. W. J. Hays & J.
                        H. Williams. No interruptions in the business will result from the transfer. Our engagements to
                        those having paid their subscriptions in advance will be filled by our
                        successors—otherwise we will refund. The paper will continue to be radically
                        Democratic.
                
            Kerr must have touched the lives of many local citizens in the six years his Examiner circulated, but perhaps no one was more impressed than David Demaree Banta, who
                    himself later became a local journalist and historian as well as a prominent lawyer. Apparently all
                    issues of the Examiner were preserved by Banta, who as a young farm lad had
                    purchased the newspaper with his own hard-earned money.12 Born on May 23, 1833,
                    in 
                        Johnson County
                    , Indiana, Banta earned a law degree at Indiana University in 1857, practiced law in 
                        Franklin
                    , and at the same time pursued his beloved avocation of writer and journalist.13 As a young lawyer with a passion for Democratic politics, he became editor,
                    in March, 1860, of the 
                        Franklin
                    
                    
                  
                     12 Evidence is fairly convincing that in addition to Kerr's
                            publication many, if not most, of the pre-1870 
                                Johnson County
                             newspapers that have been preserved were at one time in the possession of
                            Banta. His handwriting appears on the margins of some pages, and countless articles and
                            editorials in trie 1860s have the notation "DDB" handwritten at the end.
                            Analysis of the content and style indicates that Banta was, indeed, the author of those
                            items, including some that may have embroiled him in social and political controversy in the
                            local community.
                  
                     13 Among numerous biographical sketches written about David Demaree
                            Banta some were "authorized" by the judge himself. See, for example, J. H.
                            Beers & Co., pubs., Atlas of 
                                    Johnson County
                                , Indiana … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1881), 82; Brant and Fuller, pubs., History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                , Indiana … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1888; reprint edition, 
                                Johnson County
                             Historical Society, 1968), 582–86; Thomas W. Woollen,
                            "Banta, David D.," in Charles W. Taylor, comp., Biographical
                                Sketches and Review of the Bench and Bar of Indiana … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1895), 675–79. Woollen was Banta's law partner and friend
                            for more than forty years. Among numerous accounts published at the time of Banta's
                            death are: "Death of Judge Banta," Indiana University Indiana
                                Student, XXII (April 14, 1896), 258; Robert J. Aley, "Judge David D.
                            Banta," Inland Educator: A Journal for the Progressive Teacher,
                            II (June, 1896), 267–68; "Some Distinguished Alumni: David D.
                            Banta," Arbutus, IV (Indiana University Yearbook, 1897),
                            14–16; and Elba L. Branigin, History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1913; reprint edition, 
                                Johnson County
                             Historical Society, 1973), 139–41. A number of twentieth-century
                            biographical sketches also exist and include Jacob Piatt Dunn, "David Demaree
                            Banta," Indiana and Indianans: A History of Aboriginal and Territorial
                                Indiana and the Century of Statehood (5 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), III, 1372–74; "Banta, David Demaree:
                            1833–1896," in Richard E. Banta, comp., Indiana Authors and
                                Their Books, 1816–1916 (
                                Crawfordsville
                            ,
               
                    
                    Democratic Herald, for which he had written extensively since its inception in
                    November, 1859.14 Although he continued to write regularly for the Herald until 1863, when the newspaper office was burned by incendiaries, he relinquished
                    the editorship in March, 1861, in deference to the demands of his law practice and his work as
                    district prosecutor of the Common Pleas Court. After a second term as prosecutor and a year as
                    deputy recorder, Banta again became an editorial and feature writer for the revived Democratic
                    paper, reorganized as the 
                  
                            Johnson County
                         Press and published from 1865 to 1868. Smalltown law practice being neither so
                    time-consuming nor so lucrative as it became later, Banta supplemented the family income by serving
                    as school examiner for 
                        Johnson County
                     (1865–1868), a position for which his college degrees and two years as a
                    teacher must have served him well; as an official assessor (1866–1868); and as trustee
                    for the city schools of 
                        Franklin
                     (1867–1869).
            From 1870 to 1876 Banta gained stature and reputation as judge of the Twenty-eighth Judicial
                        Circuit.15 Upon completion of his term as judge, he returned to private law
                    practice; at the same time (1877), he was appointed to the Indiana University Board of Trustees. He
                    served on the board until 1889 when, after seven years as board president, he was persuaded to beome
                    dean of the reconstituted Law Department at Indiana University. During this time his renown as an
                    orator led to his being chosen annually to give a Founders' Day lecture on the 
                  Ind., 1949), 16; Burton Dorr Myers, "David Demaree Banta …"
                                Trustees and Officers of Indiana University, 1820 to 1950, Burton Dorr
                            Myers and Ivy L. Chamness, eds., (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1951), 296–99; and Katharine Kell, "Letter from D. D.
                            Banta to Son from Britain," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIV
                            (March, 1978), 36–47. Kell, who is preparing a full biography of Banta, includes
                            notes from unpublished family letters. The Banta portrait that is published with
                            Kell's article is one of two used in several of the earlier biographical sketches.
                  
                     14 The succession of newspapers in 
                                Johnson County
                             until 1888 is detailed in a section entitled "The Press" in
                            Brant and Fuller, History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     , 516–21. Elba L. Branigin updated this list in 1913 but
                            continued some minor errors in chapter thirteen, "Journalism in 
                                Johnson County
                            ," of his History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     , 411–19. After the inception of the Examiner, 
                                Johnson County
                             nearly always had at least two papers, each espousing different political
                            philosophies.
                  
                     15 A severe illness early in Banta's judicial tenure caused
                            him to seek summer rest and relaxation among the pine forests and lakes of northern 
                                Michigan
                            . Annual trips to this and other areas prompted him to write a number of
                            articles based on his experiences in the upper Great Lakes region and the northern Rocky
                            Mountains. In much of this work he extolled the magnificent wilderness and decried
                            man's ofttimes careless treatment of nature's balance. Many of his series
                            of articles appeared in Forest and Stream and the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News during the 1880s and early 1890s.
               
                     early history of Indiana University.16 His
                    abiding interest in education resulted also in a series of articles on pioneer schools in 
                        Johnson County
                     and Indiana.17
            
            While serving as editor of the 
                        Franklin
                    
                    Democratic Herald, Banta published in a full column (February 7 and 14, 1861) his
                    own prospectus for writing a history of 
                        Johnson County
                    . This dream by the young writer-lawyer was interrupted by the Civil War as well as
                    later personal and professional obligations. Although he continued to gather materials and to give
                    numerous historical orations, Banta's long-held desire to publish an integrated history
                    came to fruition only when he was invited in 1880 to be the local historical writer in a 
                        Johnson County
                     atlas being prepared by one of several 
                        Chicago
                    -based publishers of subscription books.18 His historical sketch of
                    the pioneer settlement was considered so well done that J. H. Beers and Company risked printing it
                    in the form of a small book as well 
                  
                     16 Banta's six lectures covering the years 1820 to 1850 were
                            published first in Indiana University Alumni Quarterly, I (January, April,
                            August, October, 1914), 2–24, 142–65, 272–92,
                            369–86, and II (January, April, 1915), 5–17, 99–110. They
                            were included as the first six chapters in James Albert Woodburn, History of
                                Indiana University (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1940), 1–124.
                  
                     17 These lively articles were originally published in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 6, 18, 20, 27, February 3, 10, 17, 24, March 16, 23, 1892.
                            They were reprinted as "The Early Schools of Indiana. From the Papers of D. D.
                            Banta," Indiana Magazine of History, II (March, June, September,
                            December, 1906), 41–48, 81–88, 131–38, 191–94.
                  
                     18 Most of the local histories and county atlases published in the
                            Midwest during the first fifty years following the Civil War were the result of the
                            notorious subscription business. Enterprising publishers, based primarily in 
                                Chicago
                            , sent canvassers out across the countryside to sell the more prosperous farmers
                            and businessmen on the worthiness of an atlas or history project. For a specified amount of
                            cash, the prospective buyer could have a lithographic view of his farm, a portrait, or a
                            biographical sketch published in the "beautiful" volume. The use of Judge
                            Banta's name was a typical selling point to lend an air of authenticity to the
                            proposed book; and, in fact, Banta's works might otherwise not have been published
                            in book format. The uses and abuses of the subscription book business were discussed in 1879
                            in a fascinating little book published ironically (or purposely?) by the Fidelity Press of 
                                Chicago
                            . See Bates Harrington, How 'Tis Done: A Thorough
                                Ventilation of the Numerous Schemes Conducted by Wandering Canvassers Together with the
                                Advertising Dodges for the Swindling of the Public (
                                Chicago
                            , 1879). While preparing and editing materials for an atlas-history, the present
                            writer analyzed for 
                                Johnson County
                             all such publications as well as newspaper notices and editorials about them.
                            From this and other assessments, one can conclude that the value of the printed record far
                            outweighs the errors, embellishments, and prejudices obviously contained in these works.
                            There seems to be no reason to suspect that Banta was anything but honest in his attempt to
                            establish a lasting record of pioneer history in 
                                Johnson County
                            .
               
                     as a major part of the illustrated county plat atlas.19 His reputation established as local historian, Banta was invited again in the
                    late 1880s to be the principal local contributor to the History of 
                            Johnson County
                        
               , a publication typical of the spate of bulky county histories sold by
                    subscription in most counties of the Midwest.20 The five chapters Banta prepared
                    for this 1888 volume were revisions of his earlier Historical Sketch of 
                            Johnson County
                        
               , and they in turn were embellished for use in a series on pioneer history for
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News in 1888.21 Perhaps because his portrait is included in
                    the frontispiece of the History of 
                            Johnson County
                        
               , this latter volume is often erroneously called the "Banta
                    History." His writings have been quoted countless times in later historical essays.
            Banta obviously used old newspapers, Kerr's Examiner among them, during
                    the course of his historical research. In a chapter entitled "Indian History" in
                        History of 
                            Johnson County
                        
               , for example, the judge commented on the excavation of buried aboriginal
                    hunters and quoted Kerr's "Lines on seeing human bones of extraordinary size taken
                    from an excavation at the 
                        Johnson County
                     Seminary" as "the first poetical effusion ever written or printed in 
                        Johnson County
                    ." In his Historical Sketch Banta frequently cited
                    "the blind printer" on many matters, including the execrable road conditions of
                    the 1840s.22
            
            During the decade of the 1880s, when he was writing much of his local history, Banta penned a
                    memorial to Kerr and the Examiner. Implicit in the sketch is Banta's
                    appreciation of his early exposure to politics and journalism—indeed
                    reading—in the Examiner and of his use of the paper as a historical
                        source.23 Originally printed in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Sentinel
                    
                  
                     19 David D. Banta, A Historical Sketch of 
                                    Johnson County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1881). The above was published in full in Beers, Atlas of 
                                    Johnson County
                                . The Banta book was reprinted in 1962 and again in 1976 by the 
                                Johnson County
                             Historical Society.
                  
                     20 Brant and Fuller, History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                .
                  
                  
                     21 D. D. Banta wrote a series of eight weekly articles entitled
                            variously "Tales of Pioneers" and "The New Purchase" for
                            the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News (May 30 to July 20, 1888).
                  
                     22 Brant and Fuller, History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     , 281; Banta, Historical Sketch of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     , 78–79.
                  
                     23 Another 
                                Franklin
                             attorney and a protege of Banta, Elba L. Branigin, was also aware of the
                            importance of newspaper reports as source material for local history. His 1913 History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                , Indiana includes extensive quotations from Banta's works. In
                            1913 Branigin had been unable to locate the files of the 
                                Franklin
                            
                            Examiner, which Banta had obviously used. In the late 1920s or early 1930s
                            he discovered the collection in the Indiana University Library, where the newspapers had
                            been placed either by Banta himself while
               
                     on Sunday morning, February 17, 1884, "Sketch of the
                    Life and Times of John R. Kerr, the Blind Printer" is reprinted below as a tribute to a man
                    who overcame an enormous personal handicap in order to fulfill a desire to stir the political,
                    economic, social, and moral thought of a people still emerging from the frontier wilderness.
            The lives of Kerr and Banta spanned that remarkable period when central Indiana was transformed
                    geographically from a primitive wilderness of forest and swamp to a man-made landscape with its
                    tile-drained fields, prosperous farms, lively rural and village communities, multifunctional town
                    and city trade centers, integrated transport networks, and burgeoning commercial-industrial
                    facilities—yet some years before the automobile, the airplane, the radio.
                    Banta's memorial was written in part as a reminiscence for those of his own generation who
                    also had witnessed the closing of the Indiana frontier. The essay reveals something of midwestern
                    rural and village life at midnineteenth century by focusing on a pioneer editor who captured in
                    print a portion of the otherwise elusive records of life in the newly developing, ofttimes
                    struggling, communities. From the present perspective of another one hundred years, the Banta sketch
                    also is an indirect commentary on the life of a talented small-town lawyer and writer who served as
                    Kerr's biographer.
            
               he was dean of the Law School or by his family after his death. Branigin acquired the papers
                        for the 
                            Franklin
                         Public Library where they remained until they were microfilmed in 1950 by the
                        Indiana State Library. In a series of four articles published in the 
                            Franklin
                        
                        Evening Star, November 12–16, 1932, Branigin makes pertinent
                        comments about the strengths and weaknesses of Kerr's pioneer publishing
                    venture.
            
            
            SKETCH OF THE LIFE AND TIMES OF JOHN R. KERR THE BLIND PRINTER1
            
            D. D. Banta
            From East 
                        Tennessee
                     their2 flowed into Central Indiana during the pioneer days no
                    inconsiderable stream of population. Of this, 
                        Johnson County
                     received its share. Among those who came from that quarter was John Robinson Kerr, the
                    founder and publisher of the first newspaper printed in the County, who deserves to be remembered
                    not only because he was the County's first printer, editor and publisher, but because he
                    won success in spite of physical infirmities calculated to appall the stoutest hearted; and did his
                    work with a degree of fidelity worthy of all praise.
            John R. Kerr was born in Green[e] County, East 
                        Tennessee
                    , on the 22nd of February 1809. He was undersized both as boy and man, weighing but
                    fifty pounds when he was ten years old, and so low in stature when he went to the printer's
                    trade, at the age of fifteen, that he was compelled to mount a box that he might reach the case.
                    Notwithstanding his parents were in moderate circumstances even for the times in which they lived,
                    they managed nevertheless to give him such an education as fell to the lot of comparatively few men
                    of the day. Fortunately they lived no more than two miles from Tusculum College,3 and 
                  
                     1 Banta's memorial to John R. Kerr was published as a
                            five-column feature article in a daily newspaper; thus, a strong possibility for
                            typographical and editorial error exists. The original handwritten manuscript does not
                            survive, and it seems fair to assume that the obvious errors and other apparent mistakes are
                            the responsibility of the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Sentinel rather than the author, who was a notably literate
                            gentleman. These "misprints" have been corrected in the following
                            transcript. For example, inconsistent punctuation and capitalization (as in the case of
                            political party names) have been changed either to correct errors or to enhance the meaning
                            of a statement. Certain spelling errors, particularly in the case of proper names, have also
                            been corrected. Ten paragraph indentations have been created in order to improve
                            readability. Titles of books and newspapers have been italicized to distinguish them from
                            the rest of the text, as Banta had apparently expected the printer to do.
                  
                     2 This is the first example of what may be either an inadvertent
                            writing error by Banta or an error by typesetter and editor in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel.
                  
                  
                     3 At the time John R. Kerr attended Tusculum
                            "College" it was Tusculum Academy. Tusculum College dates from 1794 when
                            Greeneville College was chartered in 
                                Tennessee
                             Territory as the twenty-eighth college founded in the 
                                United States
                            ; today it is the oldest college related to the United Presbyterian Church in
                            the 
                                United States
                             of America. Tusculum Academy, located about two miles from Greeneville College,
                            was founded in 1818 (just before Kerr enrolled) by the Reverend Samuel Doak, a graduate of 
                                Princeton
                             University (B.A., 1775). He and his son, the Reverend Samuel W. Doak, conducted
                            the work of the academy, which was incorporated by the 
                                Tennessee
                             legislature in 1842 and as
               
                     entering that college at the age of ten, he attended regularly
                    for five years boarding in his father's house all the time. He must have gone through the
                    Sophomore studies if not the Junior, but he never graduated. At the age of fifteen he left college a
                    respectable Greek and Latin scholar, a fair mathematician and with a love of scientific reading that
                    never left him.4
            
            His parents were members of the Cumberland Presbyterian Church—a Church then in its
                    infancy and which had split off from the Presbyterian, mainly because the synods refused to admit
                    any but those having scholastic acquirements equal to the college and [seminary],5 to ministerial privileges, but which, while it asserted a less rigorous rule in that
                    particular, nevertheless founded colleges and encouraged an educated ministry.6
                    Some of its schools made great reputation in the South and under Doctor Doak, the president of
                    Tusculum, celebrated as a theologian and educator,7 John R. Kerr had excellent
                        
                  Tusculum College in 1844. After the Civil War the neighboring schools were consolidated as
                            Greeneville and Tusculum College, whose corporate name was changed finally to Tusculum
                            College in 1912. Allen E. Ragan, A History of Tusculum College,
                                1794–1944 (Bristol, Tenn., 1945). Also see introductory pages in the
                            biennial catalog, Tusculum College Bulletin.
                  
                  
                     4 Banta does not identify all his sources for the biographical
                            information about Kerr, but he implies that much of it came from Mrs. Kerr and other
                            relatives.
                  
                     5 The word "seminary" is added here as the most
                            logical choice to give meaning to the full statement which, in the published article,
                            includes no word following "equal to the college and…."
                  
                     6 The Cumberland Presbyterian Church took its name in 1910 after
                            several years of disagreement between churches in the Cumberland Presbytery and the larger
                            Presbyterian body in the 
                                Kentucky
                             Synod. John R. Kerr's family apparently was caught up either
                            philosophically or geographically in the controversy that set many Presbyterian churches in
                            the former Cumberland Presbytery apart from other Presbyterian churches in 
                                Kentucky
                             and 
                                Tennessee
                            . B. W. McDonnold, History of the Cumberland Presbyterian
                            Church (second ed., 
                                Nashville
                            , Tenn., 1888). See especially the first 154 pages pertaining to the early
                            period of the church in 
                                Kentucky
                             and 
                                Tennessee
                            . As a lifetime Presbyterian, Banta was well versed in local and national
                            Presbyterian church history, and he understood the reasons for the separate Cumberland
                            Presbyterian Church.
                  
                     7 As one of the early southern opponents of slavery, Samuel Doak
                            developed strong views which led him to free his slaves and send them to 
                                Ohio
                            . Several young men who trained for the ministry under Doak became activists in
                            the antislavery cause in their Presbyterian ministeries in 
                        Kentucky, Ohio, Illinois
                     , and 
                                Missouri
                            . See Andrew E. Murray, Presbyterians and the Negro—A
                                History (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1966), 89–95. Kerr's support of the American Colonization
                            Society during the time he served as editor of the 
                                Franklin
                            
                            Examiner could have been influenced by Doak at Tusculum Academy.
                            Incidentally, Banta's implication that Tusculum College was associated with the
                            Cumberland Presbyterian Church is erroneous since the school has always had ties with the
                            mainstream Presbyterian Church, i.e., today, the United Presbyterian Church in the 
                                United States
                             of America.
               
                     opportunity for acquiring sound learning for his day and
                    generation.
            It was, no doubt, the purpose of his pious parents for him to follow the ministry, and more than
                    likely he shared in that purpose; but as his mind matured, his inclination drifted from the pulpit
                    to the printing press, and at the age of fifteen, he abandoned college and went to Green[e]ville, at
                    that time the most noted town in East 
                        Tennessee
                    , where he went into the office of the Green[e]ville Register [and]
                    where he learned the printer's trade under Benjamin Lundy.8
            
            At the end of two or three years he [Kerr] left the Green[e]ville office9 and for
                    the following six or seven years was in some sort a roving printer, but confined his tramps to
                    eastern 
                        Tennessee
                     up to 1829, when he joined the family of an uncle that was moving to 
                        Owen County
                    , Indiana. At 
                        Louisville
                     he left his uncle's family and tramped through southeastern Indiana, working
                    here and there in the little printing offices he came across in the way and finally came to
                            
                  Hamilton, Ohio
               , where he worked a short time. Leaving there very soon, he went
                    to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where he remained until the winter had spent its force and then returned on foot to 
                        Tennessee
                    .
            
               
                  8 Benjamin Lundy (1789–1839), 
                            Quaker
                         humanitarian, was the leading figure in the American antislavery movement before
                        1830. From Mt. Pleasant, 
                            Ohio
                        , he moved in 1821 to Greeneville, 
                            Tennessee
                        , where he continued to publish his new monthly antislavery paper, the Genius of Universal Emancipation. East 
                            Tennessee
                         was the center of considerable antislavery sentiment in the very early 1800s. Lundy
                        was invited to the area after the death of Elihu Embree who had established the first abolition
                        newspaper in America, the Emancipator, in 1819–1820. In
                        Greeneville, Lundy rented Embree's printing office where he learned to be a printer as
                        well as a writer. In addition to publishing the Genius, he established a
                        weekly newspaper, the Greeneville Register, and a monthly agricultural
                        journal. He moved the Genius to 
                            Baltimore
                         in the summer of 1824 in order to benefit from better mail service. See Richard
                        Harrison Doughty, Greeneville—One Hundred Year Portrait,
                            1775–1875 (n.p., 1975), especially pp. 43–48. See also Thomas
                        Earle, comp., The Life, Travels and Opinions of Benjamin Lundy … (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1847; reprint, 
                            New York
                        , 1971), especially pp. 20–23; and Merton J. Dillon, Benjamin Lundy and the Struggle for Negro Freedom (
                            Urbana
                        , Ill., 1966), especially chapters 3–5.
               
                  9 Kerr's birthdate (February 22, 1809) as given by Banta is
                        verifiable from cemetery records at Gosport, Indiana, and the year is verifiable from the 1850
                        manuscript census for 
                            Johnson County
                        . If John R. Kerr did not go to the Greeneville printing office until he was fifteen
                        years old, that is, in 1824, then he may have had a very brief experience with Lundy who left
                        Greeneville in the summer of 1824. Kerr undoubtedly read Lundy's nationally circulated
                        monthly paper, and he probably worked for the weekly Greeneville Register.
                        During the 1840s Kerr's 
                            Franklin
                        
                        Examiner espoused the American Colonization Society which, by that time,
                        abolitionists criticized as a hypocritical approach to the evils of slavery. Murray, Presbyterians and the Negro, 82; Gerald Sorin, Abolitionism: A
                            New Perspective (
                            New York
                        , 1972); and P. J. Staudenraus, The African Colonization Movement,
                            1816–1865 (
                            New York
                        , 1961).
            
            
            In August 1831 he married Miss Mary 
                        Greene
                     [Green], a native of his own county, and then turned School Master, teaching for some
                    time near his old town, Green[e]ville.10 During this time the infirmity of his
                    life—the failure of sight—began to manifest itself and thence on for twelve
                    years, there never was a day that he did not look tremblingly forward to a time when a worse than
                    midnight darkness would settle down on him forever.
            In October 1834 [1833?], being at the age of twenty-six [twenty-four], with his young wife and her
                    brother and sister, he set out in a four-horse wagon for Indiana, traveling by way of the 
                        Cumberland Gap
                    , Crab Orchard, and 
                        Louisville
                     [
                        Kentucky
                    ], the great road along which thousands came into the State of Indiana. His first stop
                    was made on the east side of Sugar Creek in 
                        Shelby County
                    , where he entered a tract of land and remained a little over two years and made
                    considerable headway clearing his farm.11
            
            In January 1837 [1834],12 finding that his infirmity of 
                  
                     10 The consistent omission of the third "e" in the
                            town name "Greeneville" may have been perpetuated either by the printer or
                            by Judge Banta. Marriage records from 
                        Greene
                                County, Tennessee
                     , identify
                            John R. Kerr and Mary Green (without a final "e") as having taken out a marriage
                            license on August 17, 1831. Marriage Records, Book A, Record 3284, County Clerk's
                            Office, 
                                Greene County
                             Courthouse, Greeneville, 
                                Tennessee
                            .
                  
                     11 Banta's informant, probably Mrs. Kerr, erred on the
                            geography and possibly the chronology of Kerr's first land ownership in central
                            Indiana. He entered his tract on October 26, 1833. As recorded in the introduction above,
                            note four, the 160 acre tract in NW 1/4 Section 31, Township 13 North, Range 5 East is in 
                                Johnson County
                             (see Figure 1) rather than "on the east side of Sugar Creek in 
                                Shelby County
                            " as Banta wrote. Apparently no other tract in either county was
                            entered by Kerr. Courthouse records indicate that Kerr sold his claim in Section 31 to D.
                            Farnsworth on June 5, 1834 (the deed recorded April 2, 1835). This latter record suggests
                            further that the Kerrs must have arrived in 
                                Johnson County
                             at least as early as 1833 but stayed less than one year on the
                            "farm." Deed Entry Book C, page 327, County Clerk's Office, 
                                Johnson County
                             Courthouse, 
                                Franklin
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     12 Again the date given by Banta may be in error. Although the Kerrs
                            sold their farm in 1834, they did not buy a town lot until December 31, 1838. Quite possibly
                            they rented or lived with relatives during their first three or four years in 
                                Franklin
                            . Furthermore, John R. and Mary Kerr were among seventeen organizing members of
                            the 
                                Shiloh
                             Cumberland Presbyterian Church, which "was organized about the year
                            1835, in a school-house one mile north of the present site of Amity
                            village…." Brant and Fuller, pubs., History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                , Indiana … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1888), 844; see also typescript report of 
                                Shiloh
                             Cumberland Church Session Book dating from 1874 and including a transcription
                            of the members from the missing original church records. The latter is available in the Fort 
                                Wayne
                            -
                                Allen County
                             Library, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana; or in the David Demaree Banta Indiana Collection, 
                                Franklin
                             College Library, 
                                Franklin
                            , Indiana. Kerr's location in 
                                Franklin
                            , rather than on the tract four miles northeast of town, would have been more
                            accessible to the only Cumberland Presbyterian Church in the county, located some three
                            miles southeast of 
                                Franklin
                            . See Figure 2.
               
                     sight was growing on him, he moved to 
                        Franklin
                     where both himself and wife had relatives living. Again he turned his attention to
                    teaching. The old log Court House was yet standing, and in that he taught the 
                        Franklin
                     boys and girls the rudiments of knowledge for several quarters. How long he may have
                    wielded the birch in 
                        Franklin
                     I do not know, but it is said "for two or three years," though I
                    think it could hardly have been so long.13 During the time he trained his hand
                    to bookkeeping and clerking in a kinsman's "store," and about this time
                    he was elected to the office of Justice of the Peace.14
            
            
               
                        Johnson County
                     was yet [1840] in the woods and 
                        Franklin
                     was a log village containing perhaps 350 souls all told.15 In the
                    country it was rare indeed that the master of one cabin could see from his own door the cabin of
                    another, so dense were the intervening forests. But sparse as was the population of both town and
                    country, there began nevertheless to be developed 
                  
                     13 If Kerr came to 
                                Franklin
                             in 1834 instead of 1837 (see footnote twelve), then he certainly could have
                            taught school "for two or three years."
                  
                     14 John R. Kerr is identified as a clerk in a list of business people
                            prepared for the year 1841 by a physician who was in 
                                Franklin
                             at the time. The list appears in Brant and Fuller, History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     , 506–507. The 1840 U.S. manuscript census for 
                                Johnson County
                             shows Kerr to have been employed under the category
                            "Commerce." Attached to the same 1840 manuscript is a statement signed
                            "Nov. 16th" by "John R. Kerr, J. P.," which gives his
                            testimony as "Justice of Peace" to the enumeration of the county by one
                            "William C. Jones." U.S., Sixth Census, 1840, population schedules for 
                                Johnson County
                            , Indiana (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. 704, roll 84), V,
                            275–76, 322.
                  
                     15 The published census for 1840 reported only a county
                            total—9,352 persons, the same figure given in the manuscript census. Although the
                            manuscript gives no easy clue to the population of 
                                Franklin
                            , Banta's estimate of "350 souls" seems quite
                            reasonable. The published census for 1850 listed 12,101 persons in 
                                Johnson County
                             and 882 in 
                                Franklin city
                            . Although no county totals are actually recorded in the manuscript census, the
                            addition of subtotals given after each township enumeration or in recapitulations for each
                            of two census districts yields totals of 12,060 and 12,228 respectively. A review of all
                            individual entries today indicates 12,101 persons, thereby suggesting that someone checked
                            the totals before publication. However, it is virtually impossible to verify figures for the
                            county-seat town of 
                                Franklin
                             because no distinction is made in the manuscript between in-town and
                            open-country dwellings in 
                                Franklin
                             Township. The manuscript census reported 1,057 persons in 162 dwellings
                            compared to the 882 persons listed in the published census. The manuscript census includes
                            no street or lot identification, and no contemporary map exists (see reconstructed map,
                            Figure 3). A reexamation, based in part upon consideration of the occupation of the head of
                            the household, reveals a possible 961 inhabitants in 172 living units including boarding
                            houses and hotels. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, population schedules for 
                                Johnson County
                            , Indiana (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. M-432, roll 155), 302;
                            U.S., Sixth Census, 1840, population schedules for 
                                Johnson County
                            , V, 325; U.S., Sixth Census, 1840 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1841), 357; U.S., Seventh Census, 1850 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1853), 767.
               
                     some demand for a printer. The nearest printing office was at 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the storekeepers and others, who from time to time wanted hand bills or posters to
                    distribute or put up, found it exceedingly inconvenient to go or send [for them] to 
                        Indianapolis
                    —twenty-two or three miles off, when the roads were good and an awful
                    day's ride when roads were bad….
            Population was increasing slowly and the demand for a printer growing, and so Mr. Kerr determined to
                    purchase a press and types and [to] open a job office. But before he had time to mature his plans,
                    his increasing defectiveness of vision became more and more alarming. Whether in the hope of finding
                    relief in travel or not, I am not aware, but sometime in 1837 he returned to East 
                        Tennessee
                     on a visit to his friends. About the same time, he went to 
                        Cincinnati
                     where he remained a few months under treatment of the then celebrated Dr. Muss[e]y,16 who, finally, told him that blindness was his ultimate fate. The nerves of
                    sight were yielding to paralysis, he said, and there was no hope. In spite of the impending
                    calamity, however, the little job office was bought and moved into one of the two rooms of his house
                    which stood on the west side of Water street, hard by Abdallah Thompson's Carding Machine,
                    and within a stone's throw of the present [1884] High School building [see 
                        Franklin
                     map, Figure 3]. Here the little machinery was adjusted and the types distributed in the
                    cases with his own deft hands, and over the door was put up the first sign of the kind ever seen in 
                        Johnson County
                    —PRINTING OFFICE.
            By the time all this was done, one eye had failed entirely, and it was so evident that Dr.
                    Muss[e]y's prediction of a state of total blindness was fast approaching fulfillment that
                    whatever of hope the unfortunate printer may have indulged before now gave way; and, hence forward,
                    he never ceased to look without a ray of hope his immitigable fate full in the face.
            How many are there, who would not have become discouraged as the darkness came in and have given up
                    to a hopeless 
                  
                     16 Reuben D. Mussey (1780–1866) was a prominent American
                            physician and surgeon who was educated at Dartmouth (A.B. and B. Med.) and the University of 
                                Pennsylvania
                             (M.D., 1809). After lecturing at Dartmouth and other eastern schools for some
                            sixteen years, Mussey came in 1838 as professor of surgery to the Medical College of 
                                Ohio
                             in 
                                Cincinnati
                            . Apparently Kerr confided in Mussey soon after the surgeon's arrival
                            in the Ohio Valley. Dudley W. Palmer, "Reuben Dimond Mussey,
                            M.D.-L.L.D. 1854," in "The Historians Notebook," The 
                                    Ohio
                                 State Medical Journal, XXXIV (September, 1938), 1023–25. J.
                            C. Oliver, "Mussey, Reuben Dimond," Dictionary of American
                                Biography (
                                New York
                            , 1934), XIII, 372–73.
               
                     grief over such a misfortune? Not so with John R. Kerr.
                    Speaking of this very time in his life to the writer, many years after, he said, "The one
                    eye, defective as it was, served me very well for reading and working and I managed quite well to
                    get along with it." And so he went on bravely and even cheerfully at his work. He printed
                    hand bills, circulars, addresses, tickets and whatever else his customers asked for. It must be
                    remembered there was no local newspaper to be circulated in the county at that day, nor for that
                    matter was there any circulation of newspapers at all. A few were no doubt taken and
                    read—more likely to be under, than over, a dozen in all. The legal advertisements were
                    printed in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     papers, as the old files of these papers in the city library bear testimony; but the
                    merchant who wanted to advertise his wares, the candidate who wanted to distribute a circular letter
                    among his friends and all others, who had a private enterprise to blazon forth in printer's
                    ink, went to John R. Kerr's printing office. And the work to be done was not
                    inconsiderable.
            For several years Mr. Kerr, with one eye gone and the other defective but still answering his purpose
                    for reading, setting his types, and printing his forms, kept on with his job work. The eclipse of
                    one eye prolonged the sight of the other most likely and, while it lasted, he determined to make the
                    most of it. He worked on and read on. Customers were never turned off and every spare hour he gave
                    to his books. He was one of those men who hungered for the printed page, and let those who love
                    their books think how keenly he must have felt his approaching misfortune on that account.
            It would no doubt be an interesting sight to most of us, if to-day, we had in our little book case
                    the books in their old bindings, owned and red [read] by John R. Kerr. The faithful wife who
                    survives as his widow and who sacrificed her own vision in her unselfish devotion to him, remembers
                    some of the books that were in that case, the titles of which are printed here in italics; and we
                    may guess at the others. Doubtless a few stray copies of Scott's Novels17 had found their way into the Hoosier villages at that early day, and although it is said
                    that Mr. Kerr "had no taste for trash," we may assume that he read every one of
                    these books he could get hold of. And as Miss 
                  
                     17The works of Sir Walter Scott (1771–1832), famous Scots
                            novelist and poet, were available widely in the 
                                United States
                             in the 1830s and 1840s.
               
                     Edgeworth's tales18 were quite
                    fashionable about that time and were looked upon as very moral tales at that, it is [not] unfair to
                    assume that he read some of them also. Of course he read 
                        Milton
                    ,19 the Course of Time
               20 and
                    the Night Thought,21 for they were not only fashionable but
                    their semi-reglious [religious] cast would commend them to him. But he did not confine himself to
                    religious poetry altogether, for we know that Byron, wicked as the Lord was reputed to be even then,
                    and Shak[e]speare, were among his favorites.
            And next we have the essayist. What cultured gentlemen of the last generation did not own and read
                    too The Spectator, The Rambler and kindred works?22 Certainly
                    he owned The Spectator and I have no doubt his was the only copy in the county at
                    that time.
            Now, what histories? Josephus was one.23 His aged widow does not put that in her
                    list, but her memory is at fault, I'll be bound! Everybody made a pretence of reading
                    Josephus fifty years ago. That was accounted a religious book and even less than fifty years ago,
                    good old Presbyterian mothers allowed their boys to read it on the long Sabbath afternoons; and we
                    may rest assured that John R. Kerr read it from cover to cover. Let us pity him!
            
               
                  18 Maria Edgeworth (1767–1849), born in 
                            England
                         and matured in 
                            Ireland
                        , was a novelist whose works focused upon Irish life. Her Novels and
                            Tales, full of commonsense observations and moral commentary, were published in an
                        eighteen-volume collection in 1832. Many editions of her works were circulated in America.
               
                  19 John Milton (1608–1674), famous English poet, is best known
                        for his Paradise Lost which first appeared in ten books in 1667. Numerous
                        editions were published in the 
                            United States
                         in the first half of the nineteenth century, usually entitled Paradise
                            Lost: A Poem in Twelve Books.
               
               
                  20 Robert Pollok (1798–1827) was a Scots theological student
                        when he wrote The Course of Time, considered no mean achievement for a young
                        person but needing many refinements. The author died shortly after the first publication, but
                        the work appeared in the 
                            United States
                         in more than twenty editions, usually entitled The Course of Time: A
                            Poem in Ten Books.
               
               
                  21 Edward Young (1683–1765) was a prominent English poet whose
                        chief work was entitled in full The Complaint; or Night Thoughts on Life, Death and
                            Immortality. Night Thoughts was published in several parts and numerous editions during
                        Young's lifetime and went through many American editions in the 1800s.
               
                  22 Essays by Joseph Addison (1672–1719) issued in serial form
                        in the Spectator (
                            London
                        , 1711–1714) were gathered into volumes published in several later
                        editions. The Rambler, essays imitating the Spectator in
                        serial form (1750–1752) by Samuel Johnson (1709–1784), went through many
                        editions in the nineteenth century.
               
                  23 Flavius Josephus (ca. 37 A.D.-95 A.D.) was a Jewish historian and
                        soldier who wrote the famous Antiquities of the Jews. His complete works have
                        appeared in many English editions.
            
            
            He read, perhaps, Pitkins's History of the 
                            United States
                        
               ,24 and maybe Ramsey's History of the
                        American Revolution,25 and, for aught I know, Robertson's History of America.
               26 About that time those two
                    last named works were printed as serials in a 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , newspaper.
                    However, whether he read them or not, we may rest assured he did read Weem's 
                        
                            Washington
                        
                    ,27 Harry's [Horry's] 
                        
                            Marion
                        
                    ,28 Eaton's Jackson,29 and
                    Flint's 
                        
                            Boone
                        
                    ;30 and we know that he read Hume,31 Tyttler
                        [Tytler],32
                    
                  
                     24 Timothy Pitkin (1766–1847), statesman, historian, and
                            economist, wrote A Political and Civil History of the 
                                    United States
                                 of America From the Year 1763 to the Close of the Administration of
                                President Washington (2 vols., 
                                New Haven
                            , 1828). Pitkin also produced A Statistical View of the Commerce of
                                the 
                                    United States
                                 of America …, published in various editions from 1816 to
                            1835.
                  
                     25 David Ramsay (1749–1815), American physician and
                            historian, wrote several histories, but his most ambitious project was History
                                of the 
                                    United States
                                 from Their First Settlement as English Colonies, in 1607, to the Year
                            1808 … (3 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1816–1817). The best-known editions were published posthumously,
                            though earlier editions were in print. These volumes were also included in his Universal History Americanized, published in twelve volumes in 1919.
                  
                     26 William Robertson (1721–1793), Scots churchman and
                            historian, wrote The History of America, published originally in 1777 and
                            in numerous editions with two, three, or four volumes. After about 1835 the work was
                            published in Britain and the 
                                United States
                             as a one-volume edition entitled History of the Discovery and
                                Settlement of America.
                  
                  
                     27 Mason Locke Weems (1759–1825), American writer, book
                            agent, and Episcopalian clergyman, wrote many moralizing tracts along with several
                            biographies of famous men. The most notable of his ofttimes fictionalized biographies was
                                The Life of George 
                                    Washington
                                : With Curious Anecdotes, Equally Honourable to Himself and Exemplary to his
                                Young Countrymen (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1st issued ca. 1800).
                  
                     28
                            The Life of General Francis 
                                    Marion
                                , a Celebrated Partisan Officer, in the Revolutionary War, against the
                                British Tories in 
                                    South Carolina
                                 and 
                                    Georgia
                                
                      (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1809) was written by Mason Locke Weems in collaboration with Brigadier General
                            Peter Horry. This was perhaps the second most popular of Weems's highly embellished
                            biographical sketches.
                  
                     29 John Henry Eaton (1790–1856), American lawyer and
                            politician, wrote The Life of Andrew Jackson, Major General in the Service of
                                the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1817). The book was begun by John Reid, who wrote chapters one through four
                            before he died. Later editions (1828ff) were published as Memoirs of Andrew
                                Jackson, Late Major-General and Commander-in-Chief of the Southern Division of the Army
                                of the 
                                    United States
                                . Having married Myra Lewis, a ward of Andrew Jackson, Eaton remained
                            devoted to the general and president throughout his life, which included service as senator
                            from 
                                Tennessee
                             (1818–1829); governor of 
                                Florida
                            , appointed by Jackson (1834); and minister to 
                                Spain
                             (1836–1840).
                  
                     30 Timothy Flint (1780–1840), American frontier missionary
                            and author, wrote the Biographical Memoir of Daniel 
                                    Boone
                                , the First Settler of 
                                    Kentucky
                                : Interspersed with Incidents in the Early Annals of the Country (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1833, 1836ff), published later as The First White Man of the
                                West; or The Life and Exploits of Col. Dan'l 
                                    Boone
                                
                      … (1840s and 1850s) and The Life and
                                Adventures of Daniel 
                                    Boone
                                
                      … (after 1868).
                  
                     31 David Hume (1711–1776), Scots philosopher and historian,
                            wrote the monumental History of 
                                    England
                                
                      (1754–1762), which became the standard account for many
                            years.
                  
                     32 Patrick Fraser Tytler (1791–1849), Scots historian and
                            writer, produced
               
                     Gibbon,33 and Rollin.34
            
            Now add the Bible, the Hymn Book and the Pilgrim's
                        Progress.
               35 This last, he read, no doubt, as devout people read their
                    Bibles fifty years ago—he read it and he re-read it till he knew it like some of us old
                    fellows knew the elementary spelling book in our schoolboy days. It is a book which is still read
                    some and always will be, but, in our pioneer days, the preachers read it from the pulpit and made it
                    the basis of Sunday afternoon lectures; and in all Indiana newspapers, according to the testimony of
                    Mr. Woollen in his admirable Biographical and Historical Sketches of Indiana,36 it was published as a serial. Of course, John R. Kerr read the Pilgrim's Progress—read it for the story as well as for the theology
                    it contained.
            And now we have rather a formidable list of books after all, but it must be remembered that with one
                    or two exceptions, John R. Kerr owned the largest private library in all of 
                        Johnson County
                    .37
            
            Pleasant as it may be to linger among these old books and call up visions of their time-stained pages
                    and their clumsy 
                  the multivolume History of 
                                    Scotland
                                
                      (1828–1843) and Historical View of the
                                Progress of Discovery on the More Northern Coasts of America from the Earliest Period to
                                the Present Time (Edinburgh, 
                                Scotland
                            , 1832). The latter volume was published in several editions by Harper in the 
                                United States
                             after 1833.
                  
                     33 Edward Gibbon (1737–1794), English historian, was most
                            famous for The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire,
                            originally six volumes published in various editions, 1776–1788. The work was
                            printed in numerous American editions in the 1800s.
                  
                     34 Charles Rollin (1661–1741), French historian, whose Histoire Ancienne (13 volumes, 1730–1738) was reprinted in many
                            English editions as The Ancient History of the Egyptians, Carthaginians,
                                Assyrians, Babylonians, Medes and Persians, Macedonians, and Grecians (various
                            numbers of volumes in the nineteenth century).
                  
                     35 John Bunyan (1628–1688), English author, wrote The Pilgrim's Progress from This World to That Which is to Come
                            (the first part published in 1678 and the second in 1684). It was available in a variety of
                            editions in the nineteenth century.
                  
                     36 William Wesley Woollen, Biographical and Historical
                                Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883) was a new volume when Banta was writing his essay on Kerr. Woollen, who
                            was a banker for a number of years in 
                                Franklin
                            , was a brother of Thomas W. Woollen, Banta's longtime law partner and
                            two-term state attorney general.
                  
                     37 As "a boy who hungered and thirsted for tales of
                            adventure," Judge Banta knew that in his own rural neighborhood no one really had a
                            library. On pages 31 to 33 of his "Making a Neighborhood" (an oration
                            published privately in 1887 and now located in the Banta Collection, Banta
                            "revisited" the various frontier cabins to tell which book or books he
                            found to read. Having been a student at the nearby 
                                Hopewell
                             School (ca. 1848), a teacher in a one-room school, and a student at 
                                Franklin
                             College (1853), he may well have known the books which were available during
                            the 1840s and 1850s when he was a youth and John R. Kerr was a local printer.
               
                     bindings, there came a day when a sight of them no longer
                    gladdened the heart of their owner. On the 4th day of January 1844, without pain, without an
                    immediate warning of any kind the light went out for him, forever. John R. Kerr was blind and the
                    loved books were piled up on their shelves, and never read more by him.
            Now what was he to do? He was thirty-five years old and dependent upon his press and types for a
                    livelihood for himself and wife. After the first flurry has passed by he begins to recognize that
                    his affliction had come upon him merciful in its manner. For years and years he has been in a slowly
                    deepening twilight and has been literally feeling his way all the time. Had he been suddenly struck
                    blind like Saul of Tarsus, he would have been helpless as he, but his years of twilight had been
                    years of schooling. He had been training himself to do without eyes. He had been educating the hand,
                    the ear, the foot, to serve him in perpetual darkness. Mayhap, he had been developing another and
                    hitherto latent sense—a sense unknown to the schools, for he went right on with his
                    printing work the same as ever. His was the only place where printing could be done and the people
                    continued to come for their bills, their posters, their circulars, their "cards to the
                    public"[;] and the blind printer went on with his type setting, his form making, his press work.
                    Happily, his patrons were as uncritical as they were generous, and his work gave satisfaction and
                    John R. Kerr continued to eat the bread of industry.
            Up to 1840 party lines were scarcely established with any certainty in 
                        Johnson County
                    . Every presidential majority had been cast for Democratic electors and every
                    gubernatorial majority save one had been cast for the Democratic candidate, and that exception was
                    for David Wallace, the Whig candidate in 1837. But when it came to candidates for local offices, men
                    were much in the habit of voting for those they liked best, regardless of partisan politics. Samuel
                    Herrnott [Herriott], who, while serving a term as Clerk of the Circuit Court attended thirty-two log
                    rollings one Spring, and who went to all the house and barn raisings for miles and miles around,
                    never failed of an election when he offered himself as a candidate, outspoken a Whig as he was.
                    Neither did old John Smiley.38
            
            
               
                  38 John Smiley was appointed in 1823 by Governor William Hendricks to be
                        the first sheriff of 
                            Johnson County
                        . Smiley operated a mill on Sugar Creek (see Figure 1) for many years but also
                        remained quite active in Democratic politics. See David D. Banta, Historical Sketch
                            of 
                                Johnson County
                            , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1881), 28–31 and 117–18.
            
            
            But in 1840 party lines were laid down so broadly and clearly that there never after was any getting
                    over them. That year was one of the remarkable years in American politics. Its history has never
                    been adequately told. A Democratic editor would have said the people were insane; a Whig, that they
                    were wild with excitement. When the future psychologist comes to discuss the laws that produce and
                    govern the contagion of sentiment, he will give as an example of the existence of such contagion,
                    the "Log Cabin and Hard Cider" campaign of 1840. "
                        Tippecanoe
                     and Tyler too" run [ran]39 like wild fire from one end of
                    the country to the other, and when the contagion had spent itself and men dropped back from their
                    state of political exaltation into a normal condition, they found nearly everywhere that many
                    lasting political changes had taken place meanwhile. Many an old Whig hulk was left high and dry by
                    the receding flood of that year.
            Excitement ran high in 
                        Franklin
                     as elsewhere, and out of it came a bit of political bravado, accompanied by a
                    [long-remembered] fight between two 
                        Franklin
                     citizens, Henry Banta, a Whig, and John Ritchey, a Democrat…. The Democrats
                    had run up a flag on the Court House steeple, after which the Whigs run [ran] one above it. This
                    engendered bad blood and while the Democrats were preparing to lower the Whig flag, threats were
                    openly made of shooting the man who attemted it, and as there were a plenty of rifles in the crowd
                    and a great deal of whisky, the cooler heads on both sides were uneasy. Fortunately, Banta and
                    Ritchey became involved in a controversy over the affair which led to a fight between them, and
                    during their engagement the inflamed crowd turned aside to see the result.
            In those days there were but few 
                        Johnson County
                     men even who would not look with a good deal of complacency at an old fashioned fist
                    fight. No one ever anticipated any very serious issue to such a battle. It was expected that a
                    belligerant would knock with his clenched fist with all his might and main; he might in a pinch,
                    bite, would be quite apt to scratch and if the worst came to worst, he would gouge at an eye; but no
                    one every dreamed of a knife or pistol being used, and so most men looked on complacently till one
                    or the other cried "Enough!" That was the case on this occasion, and there came
                        
                  
                     39 The letter "a" in Banta's handwriting
                            easily could have been mistaken for "u" in this case and in the next
                            paragraph.
               
                     such a funny ending to it all that the crowd forgot the flags
                    and got in a good humor. There were mud holes sometimes in those days to be seen even in the public
                    square of 
                        Franklin
                    , and it happened there were some on this occasion.
            During the battle the two belligerants rolled into one [mudhole], of such a depth of soft and
                    slippery mud, that they were compelled to give up the contest and scramble out to dry land to avoid
                    smothering, and when they got out they presented such a pitiable sight in their oozy coats and their
                    ardor was so manifestly cooled, that the crowd, already restored to the best of humor, gave way to
                    uproarious laughter. In the meantime the flags had been so adjusted as to float from a common
                    height, and all were satisfied. To this disturbance old men long afterwards attributed the beginning
                    of that strict drawing of party lines, so long a feature in the political history of 
                        Johnson County
                    ; but it is evident to my mind that the disturbance was a result not a cause. It was due
                    to the same forces that brought about the era of strict partisanship. At any rate, from 1840 on, men
                    "voted the ticket" in 
                        Johnson County
                     with a unanimity that seldom failed to gratify those old "wheel
                    horses," [Judge] 
                        Franklin
                     Hardin40 and Dr. James Ritchey;41 and the Whigs
                    held no more offices ever after.
            In 1844 Mr. [James K.] Polk was made President and his administration was marked by many questions of
                    national significance that demanded public attention. The 
                        Oregon
                     boundary question, crystallized in the alliterative "Fifty-four forty or
                    fight," and the Mexican question may be mentioned as the two most prominent. Since the
                    administration of Mr. [James] 
                        Madison
                     with its War of 1812, no such universally interesting questions had been presented to
                    the people of this country.
            Blind as he was, John R. Kerr kept abreast of the times. His devoted wife read books, papers,
                    pamphlets for him, and no man discerned the signs of the times more accurately than he. He was a
                    Democrat and in full sympathy with every Democratic measure and in the latter half of 1845, the
                    thought 
                  
                     40 Judge Franklin Hardin came to northwestern 
                                Johnson County
                             in 1825 as a teenage youth and became a frontier lawyer and judge. Active in
                            law and politics for more than fifty years, Hardin contributed many reminiscences to
                            Banta's Historical Sketch of 
                                    Johnson County
                                . An extensive biography, probably written by Banta, is found in J. H.
                            Beers & Co., pubs., Atlas of 
                                    Johnson County
                                , Indiana … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1881), 81–82, and in Brant and Fuller, History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     , 899–901.
                  
                     41 Dr. James Ritchey was one of the first two physicians to settle in 
                                Johnson County
                            . See Banta, Historical Sketch of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     , 117, and Brant and Fuller, History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     , 506–507.
               
                     occurred to him that the time was propitious for him to
                    establish a Democratic paper in 
                        Johnson County
                    ,42 and he at once made it known to the public, and met with such
                    encouragement, that on the 13th day of December 1845 he issued the initial number of the 
                        Franklin
                    
                    Examiner, the first newspaper ever printed in the County.
            Three hundred and fifty subscribers at one dollar each had been procured by interested personal and
                    partisan friends. The writer retains a vivid recollection of the drumming for subscribers in his
                    neighborhood. He was a boy then [aged twelve], and subscribed for the paper—the first
                    paper he ever subscribed for and the first that ever came regularly to the house—and
                    twenty-five cents of the subscription money which was not paid in advance, came from a coon skin,
                    which was taken from a hollow ash tree whither its owner had been tracked in a February snow. That
                    coon skin the writer valued at half a dollar, half the price of his paper, but the rascally
                    fur-buyer talked it down to a quarter, mainly on the ground that it was "February
                    fur"; and so the subscriber had to look to the hens for the remainder of his subscription
                    money.
            Those were punitive days. But two men in all "
                        Shiloh
                    " (a 
                        Johnson County
                     neighborhood) up to that time, ever "took" a paper—are
                    [one], the Presbyterian,43 and the other, the Liberty Hall Gazette.
               44 But more than a dozen Examiners, done up in a square packet and smelling strongly of printer's ink, were
                    laid upon the little cherry wood table that stood beneath the old unpainted box pulpit in the old 
                        Shiloh
                     log Church every Sunday morning; and every subscriber walked proudly up and took 
                  
                     42 Banta's considerable involvement in Democratic politics,
                            especially as a writer and sometime editor in 
                                Franklin
                             papers from about 1859 to 1870, undoubtedly prompted him to set the political
                            stage for the introduction of 
                                Johnson County
                            's first newspaper. The time was ripe and John R. Kerr was in place.
                  
                     43 The Presbyterian, with some variations of title,
                            was published continuously from 1831 to 1948, when it was absorbed by Presbyterian Life. The magazine, published in 
                                Philadelphia
                            , served the main body of American Presbyterians.
                  
                     44 From December, 1815, to October, 1857, the Liberty
                                Hall and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Gazette was published as a weekly in 
                                Cincinnati
                            . The paper was a combination of two weekly papers founded in 1804: Liberty Hall and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Mercury (1804 to 1809), which became simply Liberty
                            Hall in 1809, and 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Gazette (1804 to 1813?). From 1825 to 1840 the weekly and the 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Daily Gazette were edited by one of the outstanding editors of the time,
                            Charles 
                                Hammond
                            . R. Carlyle Buley comments: "Under the editorship of Charles 
                                Hammond
                            , 1825–40, this paper had no peer in the Northwest; its cover [sic]
                            of politics, agriculture, education, and general affairs was excellent; its editorials were
                            widely copied." See R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer
                                Period, 1815–1840 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950), II, 635; see also pp. 515–16.
               
                     out his own paper—especially so walked every boy
                    subscriber [see Figure 1 for location of 
                        Shiloh
                    ].45
            
            How many newspapers were received by citizens of 
                        Franklin
                     at the time the Examiner was projected, is not known…. In
                    1841 Dr. Pierson Murphy and Fabius M. Finch the lawyer, were subscribers to the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Weekly Journal;46 William H. Overstreet, Jesse Williams and
                    Samuel Herriott the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal
               47 and the latter the 
                        Philadelphia
                    
                    Dollar Weekly
               48 in addition; Dr. James Ritchey and George
                        King49 the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Weekly Sentinel;50 Alexander Wilson and Abdallah Thompson the
                        Emancipator;51 the Rev. David Munfort [Monfort] the Presbyterian Standard;52 Dr. Dannel [J. H. Donnell]53 the 
                        Greensburg
                    
                    Repository
               54 and John R. Kerr the 
                        Knoxville
                    
                    Register.
               55 Other persons were subscribers no doubt, and other
                    papers may have been taken at the time, but the list of both 
                  
                     45
                            
                                Shiloh
                             neighborhood was Banta's boyhood home in western 
                                Johnson County
                            .
                  
                     46 The 
                                Louisville
                            
                            Weekly Journal was published from 1831 to 1868, when it was joined with
                            the 
                                Louisville
                            
                            Courier to form the well-known daily 
                                Louisville
                            
                            Courier-Journal.
                  
                  
                     47 In 
                                Indianapolis
                             the Daily Indiana State Journal was published from 1842 to
                            1853 and the Indiana State Journal was published as a weekly and/or
                            tri-weekly from 1842 to 1904.
                  
                     48 The 
                                Philadelphia
                            
                            Dollar Weekly was published also as Pennsylvanian
                            (1832–1854) and as Dollar Weekly Pennsylvanian
                            (1854–1861).
                  
                     49 George King was the prime mover in the organization of 
                                Johnson County
                             in 1822 and in the establishment of the county seat at 
                                Franklin
                             where he was an original settler. King became one of the county's
                            biggest landowners and sometime land speculator. Although a prominent Presbyterian, he
                            donated land for the establishment of the Baptist-related 
                                Franklin
                             College. King died in 1869 in the brick house he built in 1828 (see Figure 3).
                            See Banta, Historical Sketch of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     , 24–27, 119; also see Banta in Brant and Fuller, History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     , 307–15.
                  
                     50 The paper in the 1840s was entitled the Indiana State
                                Sentinel and was issued as a weekly from 1841 to 1896.
                  
                     51 The Emancipator was published by the American
                            Anti-Slavery Society or Free Soil party from the 1830s to the 1850s.
                  
                     52 It is probable that the Reverend David Monfort, minister of the 
                                Franklin
                             Presbyterian Church (Old School) from 1830 to 1850, took the Presbyterian. See footnote 43. The Union List of Serials lists
                            the Presbyterian Standard as a publication in Charlotte, 
                                North Carolina
                            , from 1858 to 1931, which is after both Kerr and Monfort had departed 
                                Franklin
                            . Kerr, a Cumberland Presbyterian, was a neighbor and apparently a close friend
                            of Monfort (see Kerr and Monfort houses, Figure 3) for they shared official duties in local
                            endeavors, e.g., American Colonization Society and 
                                Johnson County
                             Bible Society. Monfort received more recognition in the Examiner than other local clergymen, and his farewell sermon was noted especially in
                            an editorial on November 2, 1850.
                  
                     53 Dr. J. H. Donnell was another early physician who held an important
                            piece of land, known as Donnell Hill, in the center of the county (see Figure 1).
                  
                     54 The 
                                Greensburg
                             [Indiana] Repository was in existence as a weekly during the
                            1840s.
                  
                     55 The 
                                Knoxville
                             [
                                Tennessee
                            ] Register would have given Kerr a tie with his old home
                            state.
               
                     given is believed to be fairly complete. Facts like these,
                    signify much, when we come to make up our estimates of pioneer times in our State. There is more
                    than one man living in 
                        Franklin
                     to-day [1884] who subscribes for more periodical reading matter, than was taken by the
                    entire town at the time of which I am writing.56
            
            When the publication of the Examiner was begun, work on the 
                        Madison
                     Railroad had been in progress for nine years, and the cars had reached Edinburg the
                    September before. It was nearly two years, however, ere the track was laid to 
                        Franklin
                     [see Figure I].57 They built railroads slowly in those days, but if
                    we bear in mind the general indifference of the people to such an enterprise, not to mention the
                    positive opposition shown by some, we need not wonder at it. There were men—men of
                    character and prominence at that—in 
                        Johnson County
                    , as well as in other counties along the line, who grew eloquent in picturing the evils
                    that would follow the advent of the locomotive. The teamsters, who were many, would be impoverished;
                    the blacksmiths and the wagon makers would be bankrupted, and the merchants would put up the price
                    of the things they had to sell and put down the price of the things the farmers had to sell, and the
                    latter would, in consequence, be ruined.58
            
            The stage coach carried the mails and travelers from the end of the railroad to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , passing, of course, through 
                        Franklin
                    . This gave one mail a day, each way, and more than that, 
                        Franklin
                     had never had. A "cross mail," as John R. Kerr 
                  
                     56 Banta must have had some personal files which provided information
                            on periodical subscriptions. Having written several chapters for Brant and Fuller, History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     , he probably also helped gather data for other chapters. On pages
                            506–507 of Brant and Fuller's book, a list of businessmen in 
                                Franklin
                             is identified as coming from Dr. J. H. Donnell (see footnote 53) in 1841, the
                            date Banta gives for the above list of periodical subscriptions.
                  
                     57 Kerr frequently reported in the Examiner on the
                            progress of the railroad.
                  
                     58 The 
                                Franklin
                            
                            Examiner also reported and/or anticipated some positive effects of the
                            railroads and turnpikes. In an editorial (August 25, 1849) entitled "Our
                            Town," Kerr stated: "The plank road will shortly be constructed,
                            connecting us more intimately with the rich district of country in the direction of 
                                Mooresville
                            , which will doubtless turn a much larger amount of trade to this point, from
                            that quarter." In a later editorial (June 7, 1851) also entitled "Our
                            Town," Kerr prodded enterprising citizens saying "no point that we know
                            of, at this time presents a more eligible site for manufactures of various kinds, in which
                            steam may be employed as a motive power…. We occupy a position highly
                            advantageous for the distribution of commodities of general consumption in the interior of
                            the State, having railroad or plank road communications in nearly all directions"
                            (see Figure 1).
               
                     afterwards called it in his paper, belongs to a later age.59 Not infrequently neither paper nor letter would be left at the 
                        Franklin
                     office. Men did not take many papers as we have seen; neither did they write many
                    letters. For various reasons they had not the knack of writing letters as we have it. There were no
                    pens except goose quill pens, no inks except homemade ink, no envelopes and paper; and postage was
                    dear and money scarce. About this time a citizen of 
                        Franklin
                    , a young doctor, received two newspapers from an 
                        Iowa
                     friend, who wrote a little message on the margin of one of them. The Franklin P. M. got
                    wind of the affair and notified the young doctor that unless he paid fifty cents letter postage on
                    the two papers he would report his 
                        Iowa
                     friend to the Department; and so, to save the friend, the doctor paid his fifty
                    cents—and his last fifty cents at that, over to the postmaster. Then he took his revenge
                    on the 
                        Iowa
                     man. He wrote him a letter, admonishing him to no more violate the postal laws by
                    writing on the margins of newspapers, and sent it, well knowing that it would take all the money his 
                        Iowa
                     friend had to redeem the letter—a quarter of a dollar.60
            
            The population of 
                        Franklin
                     at the time Mr. Kerr began the publication of the Examiner was about
                    550. There were about 
                  
                     59 Kerr wrote an editorial entitled "A Cross Mail"
                            on October 27, 1846, pointing out a problem in 
                                Franklin
                            's geographical location: "It must appear somewhat singular to
                            others as well as it does to us, that 
                                Franklin
                             has never succeeded in getting a cross mail. The routes running east and west,
                            crossing above and below this place, seem as if they might have been established almost with
                            a view to avoid 
                                Franklin
                            . At present we have no direct mail communication with three out of five
                            adjoining counties. All letters, and papers from this place for 
                                Shelbyville
                            —the nearest county seat, distance about 17 miles—must
                            travel by mail at least 40 miles before they reach their destination. And the route to
                            Martinsville the nearest county seat on the other side, is no shorter…. And a
                            mail route from this place to Morgantown, or to 
                                Georgetown
                             in 
                                Brown
                             Co. is as much needed as either of the others, as upon it, a post office might
                            be established affording facilities to a large number of citizens in the south-west part of
                            the county, who at present, as to mail communications are to us almost as inconveniently
                            situated as the inhabitants of 
                                Maine
                             or 
                                Georgia
                            . We believe as a commercial point, this place is of sufficient importance now,
                            to make some additional mail facilities necessary, for the benefit of citizens here, as well
                            as those of the country east and west of us." Four years later (September 7, 1850),
                            after north-south rail connections had been completed (in 1847), Kerr again commented in the
                                Examiner about the lack of a cross-mail route and the irregularity of
                            the mail service in general. Although various turnpikes were being completed, the
                            long-discussed rail connection from Martinsville and Morgantown to 
                                Franklin
                             was not completed until 1853 and the rail link with 
                                Shelbyville
                             not until 1866 (see Figures 1 and 3).
                  
                     60 Banta was fond of story telling, sometimes embellishing historical
                            incidents in literary or journalistic style. He may have known about this incident since his
                            family and other relatives had moved to 
                                Iowa
                            . Banta himself spent more than a year in southeastern 
                                Iowa
                             in 1852 and 1853 before returning to 
                                Franklin
                             College and then to Indiana University.
               
                     100 dwellings and eight or ten business houses in the town all
                    of which (excluding the court house, the seminary and the college) were frame or log houses, save
                    three [see Figure 3].61
            
            From December 13th 1845 to February 13th 1852, John R. Kerr continued with commendable regularity to
                    issue the Examiner. When for any reason he failed to publish at the time
                        appointed,62 he always got out an extra which he never counted against his
                    subscribers, but printed fifty-two full size papers for a volume. John R. Kerr was a thoroughly
                    honest man and would have scorned the tricks resorted to by some publishers of country newspapers in
                    those degenerate days, to cheat subscribers out of their just dues by false numbering.
            I have before me files of these old Examiners—the only files I apprehend
                    in existence, 63 and when I sat down to write this paper, it was my purpose to
                    make the matter—selected, and the editorial, contained in these old papers a sort of text
                    by way of illustrating some of the great changes that have taken place in newspaper make-up during
                    the last forty years; but these accumulating sheets warn me that I have not the space. I will say,
                    however, (but without reference to any parallelism between the ancient and the modern,) that John R.
                    Kerr never forgot the fact that through his paper he was a teacher. He recognized the power of the
                    press for good or evil, and most worthily he strove to make it for good.64
            
            
               
                  61 The second courthouse, replacing the original log structure, was
                        completed in 1832 as a two-story brick building. See Brant and Fuller, History of 
                                Johnson County
                            
                  , 687. This structure served well until destroyed by fire on May 18, 1849.
                        Kerr reported in the Examiner about the fire, which destroyed eight buildings.
                        In the paper of May 19 Kerr reported that the "Great Fire" was started by an
                        incendiary in a cabinet shop. An article and editorial gave details on all the buildings
                        destroyed, noting that courthouse records were saved. In the next issue (May 26, 1849), Kerr
                        printed on page one a letter suggesting ways to improve community preparations for fire, on page
                        two an editorial entitled "A Fire Engine," and on page three an advertisement
                        by a businessman seeking honesty in paying bills due at his burned-out store.
               
                  62 One such delay in printing resulting from a paper shortage was
                        explained in the Examiner on March 2, 1847: "A few articles on the
                        outside of our paper have stood in type until they are a little old, as we could not issue last
                        week for want of paper. We have however received some paper at last, and the carriage on it from
                        the depot at Edinburg to this place, (10 miles) cost us just $225 per
                        hundred." The perennial problem of paper shortages for early Indiana editors is
                        discussed in 
                            Butler
                        , "Indiana Newspapers," 303–306.
               
                  63 This statement further verifies that Banta did indeed preserve the
                        papers which were later microfilmed.
               
                  64 Kerr's striving to serve the public trust is captured in his
                        newspaper motto in the 1850s: 
                            "Determined Still As Reason Gives Us Light, To Throw Our Influence In the Scale
                                of Right."
                         Twice he printed his "Alphabet of Short Rules" for the good life, the
                        second printing (June 9, 1849), being very slightly revised. For example, under
                        "P" in
            
            
            As I look over the old frayed, dog-eared, yellow files before me, I am struck with the good sense,
                    the educated judgement, and the strict morality characterizing all of his editorial work. Of
                    editorial writing, he did but little. It was not the fashion in his day for country newspaper
                    editors to do much with the pen. The local editor was unknown and local items only now and then
                        appeared.65 When Mr. Kerr did write a leader, he was truthful, temperate,
                    manly, and sensible, and in making his selections, he was careful, prudent and conscientious. I do
                    not think he ever wrote a scurrilous line concerning an opponent in his life, although he was
                    capable of defending himself and his cause with vigor, when occasion demanded it; and he never
                    permitted an obscene paragraph or jest to foul the pages of his paper.66 And for
                    all this the people of 
                        Johnson County
                     owed him a larger debt than the one they paid in dollar subscriptions for his paper.
                    The judgement and the good taste he exercised in the selection of prose and poetry, of story and
                    anecdote, of scientific article, historical paper, and record of travel, had much to do in building
                    up and fostering a literary taste in many 
                        Johnson County
                     families, that is felt to this day. I know this is a high encomium, but I believe it to
                    be a just one, and I therefore make it. For nearly seven years he continued weekly to distribute his
                    papers to his subscribers, and for his faithful consecutions [conscientious]67
                    work during those years, he is entitled to our remembrance.
            John R. Kerr's editorial life was an uneventful one. He was a home stayer, as indeed nearly
                    all men from necessity were, in 
                  January 31, 1846, he wrote: "Pay in advance for your newspaper" and in
                            1849 he wrote "Postpone nothing you can do to-day." In 1846 he finished by
                            saying "Zealously pursue the path of duty & you will be happy,"
                            whereas in 1849 he wrote "Zealously pursue the right path & success will
                            attend you."
                  
                     65 Kerr did include numerous short reports plus accompanying editorial
                            notes, e.g., the editorial on "A Fire Engine" and health problems. In one
                            of his last issues Kerr alluded in one column to reports in another column of two meetings
                            the same night (January 17, 1852): "Fire Meeting" and "Rat
                            Meeting." The town had lost several business houses and the courthouse in the
                            "Great Fire" of May, 1849, and had just endured another business fire on
                            January 15, 1852. And the town had yet to solve a ten-year-old battle with the Norway rat,
                            the arrival of which seemed to parallel urban development. John V. Bergen has compiled from
                            available 
                                Franklin
                             newspapers a nineteenth-century review of "The Rats of 
                                Franklin
                            ," published in Nostalgia News (The 
                                Johnson County
                             Historical Society Museum), No. 5 (April 1, 1978), 10–11.
                  
                     66 On July 7, 1846, Kerr was induced to print a polite but bitter
                            reaction to a degrading remark about the Examiner attributed to a visiting
                            big-city journalist. Upon discovery that the comment was the result of a hoax perpetrated by
                            one of his own friends, he published a retracting statement.
                  
                     67 This appears to be an obvious example of error in typesetting,
                            possibly because of illegibility in Banta's handwritten manuscript.
               
                     his day. Seldom, indeed, did any man leave the County, after
                    the railroad was completed, save the merchant, who went to distant towns to buy his goods for many
                    years. Few men went to 
                        Indianapolis
                     save the "member of the Legislature," the lawyers and the delegates
                    to the conventions. There are a good many men living in 
                        Johnson County
                     to-day [1884] who were born here, or else were brought to the County when quite young,
                    who never saw 
                        Indianapolis
                     until they were grown. Of course the locomotive changed all this, but it took
                    time—took years. John R. Kerr not only stayed at home because it was the fashion of the
                    times, but also because of his infirmity. There was for him no inducement to go from home. He
                    attended no conventions, made no journeys; but week in and week out was at his post superintending
                    the publication of his Examiner. Nevertheless he enjoyed a sort of fame, the fame
                    that followed in the wake of success achieved as a printer, in spite of blindness. Far and near he
                    was known as the "Blind Printer." Newspapers at home and abroad spoke kindly words
                    of him and his neighbors and patrons, appreciating in some sort the difficulties he had to overcome,
                    not only gave him an appreciative support for the poverty of the times but generously overlooked
                    faults in his printing that they would doubtless have criticised in others.
            In the management of his office there was nothing that he could not turn his hand to except, perhaps,
                    mailing his papers. He always kept one or more assistants, one of whom, his cousin Frank Kerr,68 was with him many years. The "boys" in the office read the
                    exchanges to him and he was thus enabled to make up his selected matter. Sometimes he wrote his
                    editorials, using for the purpose a machine devised for use of the blind, but usually he put his
                    editorials in type without writing. While a boy, I often visited his printing office and saw him
                    "sticking type." If he was working on "copy," Frank Kerr would
                    line out a sentence, which he would slowly reduce to type and when the sentence was finished his
                    Mentor would read another; and thus his work was done at the case.
            By reason of the long continued illness of his wife, he sold the Examiner in 1852
                    and moved to Gosport where he and Frank Kerr, soon after embarked on the publication of the Gosport
                        Chronotype which they conducted for three years, but 
                  
                     68 Frank Kerr is listed in the 1850 manuscript census as Francis M.
                            Kerr, aged twenty-four, occupation printer, and living with John R. and Mary Kerr. U.S.,
                            Seventh Census, 1850, population schedules for 
                                Johnson County
                            , p. 150.
               
                     with no great success. In 1854 President [
                        Franklin
                    ] Pierce appointed him postmaster at that place, an office which he satisfactorily
                    filled for about sixteen years—through three years of Pierce's, all of [James]
                    Buchanan's, [Abraham] Lincoln's, [Andrew] Johnson's, and up till in the
                    third year of [Ulysses S.] Grant's administration when he was removed to make place for a
                    Republican placeman.69 In connection with the post office he kept a stock of
                    books and stationery, being assisted in his work by his wife and two nieces.
            As a rule the ease with which the blind go from place to place and the manual dexterity they exhibit
                    is astonishing to those in full possession of the sense of sight. John R. Kerr not only was
                    dexterous as a printer but carried his cleverness in his other avocations. I copy from a letter
                    written by John R. Kellesq70 a kinsman who knew him well in the last years of
                    his life:
            
                    "It was wonderful how much he could do for himself in handling the mail, and finding any
                        book he wanted. He knew where everything was, and kept the money so that he was always correct
                        in making change. He never forgot where he put anything, and could find anything when the rest
                        failed.
                    Mr. Kerr kept a partial set of carpenters tools and could make better use of them, than many
                        persons with the use of eyesight. For years he sawed and split all the fire wood used in the
                        family and carried in all the coal and wood.
                    With use of a straight-edge he could spade a bed in the garden and do it well. He could drive a
                        nail with as much certainty as any one.
                    During the war he secured a Bible in eight volumes printed in raised letters, which he read
                        through three times before he died.
                    In 1878 his wife's sight failed her, and she became a sharer in his blindness. Never
                        more could she read to him as for more than thirty years she had been doing, and as she
                        sacrificed her own sight by doing, but, thence on the reader read for her as well as for him.
                    Sometime in 1879 he had a paralytic stroke and though he recovered measurably from the effect of
                        it, he was never afterwards well. Gradually his vitality left him, until in the summer of 1880,
                        dropsy was developed and it was then apparent that his end was near. He kept on his feet,
                        however, up to the 18th of October, maintaining his habitual cheerfulness all the time, and was
                        able to to go the polls at the October election that year and cast his vote for the Democratic
                        candidates. On the 21st of the month he died, being in the seventy-first year of his age.
                    It is needless to say that John R. Kerr was a deeply religious man. He never forgot his early
                        training and never ceased to maintain his Church relation. He died in the communion of the
                        Southern Methodist Church, the Church of his first love not having an organization accessible to
                        him during his last year[s]."71
               
                
            
               
                  69 This is another printer's error and/or problem in reading
                        manuscript.
               
                  70 The original letter does not survive. The unusual spelling of the name
                        "Kellesq" most likely should be "Kelley."
               
                  71 Although there is no closing quotation mark, it appears that this is
                        the end of the Kelley letter. The existence of the Cumberland Presbyterians in
            
            
            Here I end. I have written this brief sketch as a labor of love. I had little personal acquaintance
                    with the subject of it—never talked with him face to face but twice in my life, but I
                    cannot forget, that when books, and especially books that boys love to read, were scarce, and when
                    newspapers were rarely found in any country household, John R. Kerr, through the Examiner, did much to enable me to gratify a budding love of reading and if it be sound
                    reading, much toward that. He was not a great man, perhaps not a talented man, as that word
                    now-a-days goes, but he was a true man, a faithful man, an earnest man, a pure man, a conscientious
                    man, an honest man; and is deserving of remembrance by those he benefitted. For all, I bring this
                    tribute and offer it upon the altar of his memory.
            
               
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana, Jan. 30, 1884.
            
               Gosport is suggested by notes on church history found in Blanchard, Counties of 
                                Clay
                             and Owen, 719–20.
            
         
         
         
            Letter of Jacob Schramm in Indiana to Karl Zimmermann in 
                        Germany
                    , 1842∗
            
            Jacob Schramm was born in Bavaria and came to the 
                        United States
                     in 1835 at the age of thirty-one. With him were his wife, Julia Junghaus; one daughter,
                    Nannette (Nanni); his father-in-law, Karl Friedrich Junghaus; and a serving girl, Emilie Zumpfe. Two
                    acquaintances, a rope-maker named Karl Preusger and a young man trained in the baker's
                    trade, Gottlob Partsch, also accompanied him.1 Schramm's first farm was
                    in Sugar Creek Township, 
                        Hancock county
                    , Indiana. The acreage had been purchased for him by a friend, George Havemeyer
                    (Habemeier) a few years earlier. Shortly after his arrival in the Hoosier state Schramm purchased
                    approximately two thousand additional acres in 
                        Boone County
                    , but he continued to live on the original 
                        Hancock county
                     farm.2
            
            Part of a continuous flow of German immigration to Indiana during the midnineteenth century,3 Schramm epitomized 
                  
                     ∗ The Jacob Schramm letter of 1842 was contributed for
                            publication by Richard C. Vonnegut, Sr., a Schramm descendant. Vonnegut also assisted in the
                            identification of people and places mentioned in the letter and with the translation of
                            several words. The original letter is in the possession of and was translated by Julie
                            Simonton, Cherry Hill, 
                                New Jersey
                            . It was edited by Michelle Quackenbush and Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                  
                     1 Norma M. Stone, trans., Letters of Jakob Schramm and
                                Family from Indiana to 
                                    Germany
                                 in 1836 (
                                Hanover
                            , N.H., 1951), xiii-xv, 110, passim; Emma S. Vonnegut, trans,
                            and ed., The Schramm Letters: Written by Jacob Schramm and Members of His
                                Family from Indiana to 
                                    Germany
                                 in the Year 1836 (Indiana Historical Society
                            Publications, Vol. XI, No. 4; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1935), 221, 225–28, passim; Biographical Memoirs of 
                                    Hancock county
                                , Indiana (
                                Logansport
                            , Ind., 1902), 461–65. Names of the participants in this letter have
                            been spelled in a number of ways in the various translations. It was determined in this
                            introduction to use the more anglicized forms found in Vonnegut, Schramm
                                Letters. See also a biography of Jacob Schramm by his son, Wilhelm August Schramm,
                            a photocopy of which is in the possession of Richard C. Vonnegut, Sr.
                  
                     2 Stone, Letters of Jakob Schramm, 50–56,
                            64–68; Biographical Memoirs of 
                                    Hancock county
                                
                     , 462.
                  
                     3 For a discussion of immigration to Indiana during the early
                            nineteenth century see John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From
                                Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), I, 160–80.
               
                     the industry, frugality, and ingenuity traditionally associated
                    with his compatriots. In many respects, however, he was not the typical Hoosier pioneer. Schramm
                    arrived in the 
                        United States
                     with a considerable fortune, in part acquired through the buying and selling of hops in
                    Bohemia and in part inherited. He was a learned man and brought with him from 
                        Germany
                     many books—including works by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Johann C. F. von
                    Schiller, Johann H. D. Zschokke, and Johann Gottfried von Herder—a formidable library for
                    a frontier farmer in the nineteenth century. He instilled in his children a love for music, and the
                    family enjoyed performing on the musical instruments also brought with them from their homeland.4
            
            Schramm became a very prosperous farmer, and he was an astute businessman. The condition of roads in
                    pioneer Indiana appalled him. In 1836 he wrote a friend in 
                        Germany
                    : "People in improved country often complain about bad roads, but they can have
                    no idea what a really bad road is." Between 1850 and 1852 he built a plank road from his
                    farm in Sugar Creek Township northward to the National Road approximately one-and-one-half miles
                    away. Neighbors taking their crops to market paid the toll he charged to use the road.5 In an area where effective drainage was an agricultural necessity Schramm first utilized
                    drainage ditches, then, during the Civil War years, established what must have been a profitable
                    drainage tile factory near his home.6 Sale of at least part of his land in 
                        Boone County
                     enabled Schramm to invest in a railroad being built near his home, and still later
                    money from the sale of the railroad stock was invested in Indiana state bonds.7
                    One of Schramm's granddaughters recalls that her grandfather was among the first in his
                    neighborhood to purchase a McCormick's reaper, later a Champion Self-rake, then a
                    self-binder, and she describes the "nice modern brick house with a wonderful bricked
                    cellar" in which her grandmother lived for her last few years.8
            
            The Schramms' prosperity came slowly and largely as a result of twelve-to-fourteen-hour days
                    filled with back-breaking 
                  
                     4 Vonnegut, Schramm Letters, 242, 300.
                  
                     5 George J. Richman, History of 
                                    Hancock county
                                , Indiana: Its People, Industries and Institutions (
                                Greenfield
                            , Ind., 1916), 754; Vonnegut, Schramm Letters, 285.
                  
                     6 Richman, History of 
                                    Hancock county
                                
                     , 754.
                  
                     7 Vonnegut, Schramm Letters, 300–301.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., 297, 301. Julia Junghaus Schramm died July 31, 1871. Biographical Memoirs of 
                                    Hancock county
                                
                     , 463.
               
                    
                    
                  JACOB SCHRAMM 1805–1880
                  Courtesy Richard C. Vonnegut, Sr.
                labor. Before any planting could be done the "much-lauded virgin forest"
                    had to be cleared. "This is a terrific job," wrote Schramm, "of which
                    people in 
                        Germany
                     cannot even form a conception."9 Swampy marshlands had to
                    be drained, both because they precluded agriculture and because they were injurious to health. The
                    mosquitoes, "little gnats with long legs and bills," caused the Schramms many
                    "sleepless nights—after the heavy labors of the day—because their
                    stings were very painful."10 Labor was scarce and expensive. Despite
                    the large numbers 
                  
                     9 Stone, Letters of Jakob Schramm, 66. Here and
                            elsewhere the Vonnegut and Stone translations of the same letters vary slightly. For the
                            Vonnegut version of this quotation see Schramm Letters, 274.
                  
                     10 Vonnegut, Schramm Letters, 279. The second
                            quotation is from the Schramm letter of 1842, which is reproduced below.
               
                     of immigrants arriving in the Hoosier state, "still
                    there are always too few workmen, and always too much work"; frequently the "hired
                    help" did not perform to Schramm's high standards, and all the family, including
                    "mother, Emilie and Nanni," helped in the fields.11 It is
                    little wonder that in his first letters to family and friends in 
                        Germany
                     Schramm wrote: "I shall most certainly be with you again in 7 or 8 years with
                    my family … I have no intention of spending the rest of my life in this
                        wilderness…."12
            
            A series of Schramm letters written in 1836 was published in 
                        Germany
                     in 1837, presumably as a deterrent to emigration from that country to the 
                        United States
                    .13 Although Schramm granted that the working classes would do very
                    well and be happy in the New World, he reiterated throughout the correspondence that "for
                    the propertied person, the disadvantages far outweigh the advantages."14 In a letter of 1842, written to his friend Karl Zimmermann and reproduced below, Schramm
                    describes a life only relatively less severe than that of six years earlier. Scarcity and
                    expensiveness of labor, fear of sickness, endless hard labor, mosquitoes, economic problems, and
                    intolerable road conditions still contribute to his frequent discouragement, and his pessimism as to
                    the future of the 
                        United States
                     is even more apparent.
            Part of Schramm's dissatisfaction with his new home both in 1836 and in 1842 may have
                    stemmed from his failure to understand the American system. Certainly the 
                        Germany
                     from which he came—an aggregation of small, separate provinces stitched
                    together by dynastic marriages—was very different from the vastness of the 
                        United States
                    —administered by one government and a republican one at that. The old
                    Revolutionary leaders and their unifying ideals were mostly gone by 1842. 
                  
                     11 Stone, Letters of Jakob Schramm, 76. Part of the
                            quotation is from the Schramm letter of 1842.
                  
                     12 Stone, Letters of Jakob Schramm, 66.
                  
                     13 Only two known copies of the original German publication of the
                            Schramm letters of 1836 are extant in the 
                                United States
                            . In 1935 the Indiana Historical Society published a somewhat abridged American
                            edition translated and edited by Emma Schnull Vonnegut, a granddaughter of Jacob Schramm;
                            Mrs. Vonnegut's copy of the German edition has been placed in the Indiana
                            Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . In 1951 another Schramm descendant, Norma Mueller Stone, obtained a second
                            copy of the original volume and translated and published a separate edition of the letters.
                            See Vonnegut, Schramm Letters, 225–26; Stone, Letters of Jakob Schramm, iii-v, xi-xii. A third copy of the original printing is
                            located in the Karl University Library, Prague, 
                                Czechoslovakia
                            .
                  
                     14 Vonnegut, Schramm Letters,
                        281–83.
               
                    
                    
                  JULIA JUNGHAUS SCHRAMM
                            1807–1871
                  Courtesy Richard C. Vonnegut, Sr.
                Schramm looked at political factionalism and corruption and at economic confusion in the
                    1830s and early 1840s and understandably wrote: "it appears that human weakness makes it
                    impossible to sustain a republic on this earth for any length of time and the majority of people
                    need, necessarily, a driving leader without whom they will inevitably wind up in chaos."
                    From the time of his arrival in 1835 Schramm had seemingly been both attracted and disgusted by the
                    American democratic spirit. Impressed by the wealthy merchant who loaded kegs and packing cases and
                    hauled them to the warehouse himself, he could still comment rather scathingly that
                    "day-laborer" was not a term to use in the New World: "the richest have
                    no better standing than the poor, and workers are called ‘Help.’"15 The 
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 283, 268.
               
                     economic depression occasioned by the Panic of 1837 further
                    distressed Schramm, who in 1842 could not sell his agricultural surpluses at any price and who saw
                    "ringing coin" being drained off to Europe to pay ever-increasing debts.
            Schramm thought that his "enthusiasm for the American freedom" had
                    "greatly diminished" by 1842; nevertheless, he has by that year tempered his
                    earlier determination to return to 
                        Germany
                     to live. It "would not be extraordinary," he admits, if "I
                    would only visit there with my family…." He also poignantly reveals his growing
                    recognition of the worth of his new home: "This lonely life in the wilderness, which hardly
                    permits contact with other human beings, has its good points, in fact, excellent points once one
                    gets used to it." Schramm did indeed return to the Old Country to visit in 1856 and
                    traveled extensively in Europe, the Middle East, and the 
                        United States
                     in later years, but he lived out his life on his original 
                        Hancock county
                     farm and died there in 1880 at age seventy-six.16
            
            In 1935 Christopher Coleman, executive secretary of the Indiana Historical Society, wrote an
                    introduction to the society's publication of the Schramm correspondence of 1836.
                    Coleman's observations are equally pertinent to the letter of 1842.
            
                    Jacob Schramm's difficulties and misfortunes, whatever their effect upon prospective
                        emigrants from the Austrian Empire and German states, did not result in his return to
                        Europe…. He and his family gradually adjusted themselves to their new world; to them
                        and their descendants it finally proved to be a land of opportunity. The record of the
                        transplanting of the family from Bohemia to Indiana is an Odyssey, prosaic perhaps, but
                        illustrative of the great New World epic, the making of America. The keen observation of the
                        writer, a practical business man … make[s] it a document of historical
                        value…. Few accounts of early settlement recreate more vividly the state of mind
                        engendered in the settlers by the primeval forests of early Indiana.17
               
                
            
               
                  16 Stone, Letters of Jakob Schramm, 105–107.
               
                  17 Vonnegut, Schramm Letters, 221–22.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Hancock county
                                 
                              
                           
                                    June 20, 18421
                           
                                
                        My dearest and best friends Karl and Nanni!2
                        
                        The heart begins to swell with joy and nostalgia when I think of you dear ones and
                                    our former life. Just now I have your last letter before me which was brought here
                                    by Mr. Richter. Today it is exactly one year since your letter was written and a day
                                    of rain permits me time to answer it. I should have done so before but I have many
                                    reasons to excuse me, aside from the major one that we always have so much work that
                                    we do not know where to start. Furthermore, I was also not sure whether you would
                                    receive my letter. Since we have so much work, I did not want to spare any time for
                                    such an uncertain endeavor, even though my heart always urged me to do so.
                        Since Fischer came here from Dresden and returned there again, I do not know exactly
                                    where he is staying. He would be the only one to whom I could send letters for you
                                    with confidence, knowing that he would forward them to you, dear Karl, duty-free.
                                    Could you, dear friends of my heart, suggest to me in your next letter a place in
                                    Saxony or Prussia where I could send my letters to you, so that you will not have to
                                    wait six years for an answer again. You can certainly depend on that.
                        Oh, it is indeed a great balm for the heart to receive news from faithful, honest
                                    friends far away! I am sending this letter with a German who will shortly leave here
                                    for 
                                        Bremen
                                    . There he will mail it to my brother-in-law3 in
                                    Wilsdruff under cover of his own, who will then send it to you duty-free because
                                    this way it will cost him but a few pennies. So, again, dear Karl, name a place
                                    where I can send my letters to you which you will 
                              
                                 1 In the following transcription of the Schramm letter
                                            of 1842 the editors have followed a photocopy of the typed translation by
                                            Julie Simonton, Cherry Hill, 
                                                New Jersey
                                            .
                              
                                 2 Karl Zimmermann, a close friend of the Schramms, was
                                            a cloth manufacturer in Saaz, Bohemia. An earlier letter to Zimmermann was
                                            published in Emma S. Vonnegut, trans, and ed., The Schramm
                                                Letters: Written by Jacob Schramm and Members of His Family from Indiana
                                                to 
                                                    Germany
                                                 in the Year 1836 (Indiana Historical
                                                Society Publications, Vol. XI, No. 4; 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1935), 292–96; and in Norma M. Stone, trans., Letters of Jakob Schramm and Family from Indiana to 
                                                    Germany
                                                 in 1836 (
                                                Hanover
                                            , N.H., 1951), 92–97. The identification of
                                            Zimmermann is from Stone, Letters of Jakob Schramm, 92.
                              
                                 3 The brother-in-law was Christian Gottleib Dietrich,
                                            a cabinetmaker in Wilsdruff in Saxony and husband of Mrs. Schramm's
                                            sister, Johanna Friederike Junghaus Dietrich. He and Mrs. Dietrich later
                                            immigrated to the 
                                                United States
                                             and are buried in Crown Hill Cemetery, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            .
                           
                                     be assured of receiving, and where people do
                                    not mind the cost or where you can reimburse them. I will then write you more often.
                                    It would be a great relief for me and one more great source of joy if I could do so.
                        My brother4 in Gera has not written me again, as much as I would
                                    have liked it. I do not know the reason. Just the same I look forward with pleasure
                                    to a letter from you dear ones, even though that may be a long time from now. But
                                    you must write yourself next time, my best friend, as well as mother—I
                                    only want your own handwriting! Everything coming from you has a special value for
                                    me. Friendship can only endure when founded on mutual respect. You have my respect
                                    in full measure because I am certain that if ever in my life I needed you, you would
                                    help me—if you could—with a benevolent and honest heart. Oh,
                                    how often I think of you during my solitary labors in the fields! How I converse in
                                    spirit with you as if you were here! This is always a great pleasure for me.
                        You have learned from my first letter what happened here in the beginning with
                                        Habermeier.5 Later on, conditions were still bad for a long
                                    time. There was not much clear land. Therefore, for several years, we had to buy
                                    nearly everything we needed for ourselves and our livestock and get it here under
                                    the most terrible conditions, of which you can have no conception. Often I became
                                    stuck with the wagon in the morass and, to my dismay, did not know how to get out of
                                    it. The greater part of the land was marshland and even after it was cleared one
                                    could not grow much on it. Drainage ditches had to be built to dry out the fields
                                    and eliminate the pestilential swamps which are also very injurious to health.
                        In the beginning we had millions of mosquitoes here. They entered our dwelling and
                                    caused us sleepless nights—after the heavy labors of the
                                    day—because their stings were very painful. Now, that we have the ditch,
                                    we are not bothered with this plague any more.
                        
                           
                              4 Konrad Schramm, a hops trader, was Jacob
                                        Schramm's older brother who lived in the town of Gera in Thuringia and
                                        trained Jacob in the hops business.
                           
                              5 Around 1830 George Havemeyer (Habemeier) came to the 
                                            United States
                                         with money and instructions from Schramm to purchase a farm in the
                                        New World and to begin working it. The land selected was in Sugar Creek
                                        Township, 
                                            Hancock county
                                        , Indiana. An early county history indicates that the original farm
                                        consisted of 160 acres. In a letter of 1836 to family and friends in 
                                            Germany
                                         Schramm states that only about twenty acres had been cleared for
                                        tillage when he arrived. According to Schramm, Havemeyer had spent all the money
                                        and indeed had incurred additional debts. Relations between the two men became
                                        strained, and they eventually parted. George J. Richman, History of 
                                                Hancock county
                                            , Indiana: Its People, Industries and Institutions (
                                            Greenfield
                                        , Ind., 1916), 754; Stone, Letters of Jakob
                                        Schramm, xiv, 50–51, 53–54, 68–72.
                        
                        
                        When I first started to plough the many swamps with a badly trained horse, I
                                    accomplished almost nothing although I nearly sweated myself to death. I had a
                                    principle that I would not permit myself to become so discouraged as to give up on
                                    anything in this world which others could achieve by perseverance. I struggled until
                                    things worked out and worked well.
                        Although I often had workmen to help with heavy labors of lumbering and field work,
                                    ditch-digging, and so on, I always had to work ahead of them if I wanted things done
                                    properly because the daily wage is very high but products cost very little. This is
                                    the main reason why nearly all well-to-do people coming here become poor, whereas
                                    people who lived in great poverty in 
                                        Germany
                                     become affluent or, at least, they have a surplus to live on and
                                    acquire some assets. The situation was certainly better three years ago and before
                                    that; products were profitably sold for money, but now it is different. Heaven only
                                    knows what will happen with the financial situation of the State of Indiana which
                                    started to build a multitude of canals and railroads and in doing so wasted money
                                    prodigiously. The laborers there earned one dollar daily and more, beside their
                                    meals and the brandy they swilled. The State borrowed and wasted more money until
                                    these gentlemen were unable to borrow any more and had to stop the projects. Instead
                                    of completing a single railroad or canal which would traverse the State to provide
                                    it with a means of moving its products, they started a number of them and when the
                                    money ran out everything collapsed, leaving no way for transportation east or south.
                                    The State now has a debt of over 13 million dollars which must be repaid with
                                    interest and there is almost no money in the land.6 Everything
                                    is done by barter—nobody thinks in terms of money any more, which is a
                                    bit of paper only without any value: nobody wants it. All year one hardly sees any
                                    silver or goldpiece any more—all of it is gone.
                        I have at least 6,000 pounds of smoked meat and even if I should offer it for 1 1/2
                                    cents, nobody would buy it. Therefore I 
                              
                                 6 In 1836 the Indiana General Assembly initiated an
                                            extensive program of internal improvements to be financed almost entirely by
                                            the sale of state bonds. Largely because of political considerations work
                                            was begun on almost all segments of the project—consisting of
                                            roads, railroads, and canals—at the same time. Scarcity of labor,
                                            inexperience, construction problems, corruption, and perhaps most
                                            importantly the Panic of 1837 caused the collapse of the entire System of
                                            1836. The state itself was unable to complete any of the projects, and
                                            internal improvements creditors lost heavily. In 1847 Governor James
                                            Whitcomb estimated the debt at slightly over eleven million dollars. John D.
                                            Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to
                                                Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                                New York
                                            , 1954), I, 321–27, 333–44.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              HANCOCK COUNTY, 1876
                              Reproduced from Maps of Indiana Counties in
                                            1876 … (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1968).
                           
                                     will probably have to throw it away even though
                                    I fattened the pigs on pure corn, salted the pork and smoked it well, so that it
                                    tastes better than any I can remember eating in 
                                        Germany
                                    . I would also have 300 Strich7 maize for sale but
                                    it cannot be sold for any price, not even the lowest. Certainly the laborers do not
                                    have any more work to do, yet they insist on their former high daily wage. I have
                                    100 acres cleared and in good condition, yet I must tend to them alone and leave
                                    what I cannot do myself because what should we do with all that produce!
                        The National Road, which is about 3/4of an hour away from here and which leads to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , was in fairly good condition when we arrived here because the trees
                                    had been cleared away and the road planed. Since that time it has neither been paved
                                    nor has anything else been done to maintain it and it, too, has become nearly
                                    unusable. Even during the dry summer season the holes are so deep that one
                                    disappears in them with horse and wagon.8
                        
                        In general, my enthusiasm for the American freedom has greatly diminished. The old
                                    spirit, which dated from the liberation, has disappeared—these men are
                                    dead—and greed, ambition and a host of mean passions have taken over. In
                                    Congress they insult, beat and shoot one another, waste time on trivia, lack the
                                    courage to tackle important business. They are splintered into many factions and are
                                    acting spitefully. Although every one of them receives a daily salary of seven
                                    dollars, they only pursue their own pleasures and when they are supposed to vote on
                                    a law there are often more than 100 men absent. The situation is not better in other
                                    states, possibly worse; therefore most important business remains undone and there
                                    is nothing but confusion and money shortages.9 I do not know
                                    what the 
                              
                                 7 A strich is a tract or parcel of land.
                              
                                 8 The National, or Cumberland, Road eventually
                                            stretched from Cumberland, 
                                                Maryland
                                            , across 
                                                Ohio
                                             and Indiana to Vandalia, 
                                                Illinois
                                            . Originally financed by federal funds, construction of the road
                                            in Indiana began in 1829; it crossed the state via 
                                    Richmond, Greenfield, Indianapolis, Plainfield
                                 , and 
                                                Terre Haute
                                            . In 1848 the federal government turned the road over to the
                                            state of Indiana. In succeeding years various sections of the route were
                                            "planked." The route of present-day U.S. 40 approximates
                                            that of the old National Road. Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, I, 288–90; U.S., Statutes at
                                            Large, 30 Cong., 1 Sess., IX, 283. For a general history of the
                                            National Road see Philip D. Jordan, National Road (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1948).
                              
                                 9 Although Schramm's comments apparently
                                            refer to the 
                                                United States
                                             Congress, it is obvious that he, like many European immigrants,
                                            did not grasp the federal nature of the American governmental system.
                                            Indiana state legislators in 1842 were paid only three dollars per day plus
                                            travel; therefore, Schramm's observations in all liklihood did not
                                            apply—at least in full—to the General Assembly.
                                            Indiana, Revised Laws (1837–1838), 302. The
                                            specific incidents to which Schramm refers have not been ascertained.
                           
                                     outcome will be nor do I pay much attention to
                                    it and, even though I have the right by citizenship, I do not go to the elections.
                                    The whole business repels me because I see nothing but the filthy, self-serving ways
                                    of the money-hungry and unworthy who vie for official positions, which the honest
                                    man is careful indeed to avoid. Thus it appears that human weakness makes it
                                    impossible to sustain a republic on this earth for any length of time and the
                                    majority of people need, necessarily, a driving leader without whom they will
                                    inevitably wind up in chaos. Nevertheless, the Americans are still very proud of
                                    their freedom, even though they are the worst slaves and there is sure to be a
                                    bloody revolution before a monarchic government can gain a foothold here.
                        Congress, which in the year 1830 had close to 30 million dollars cash in the
                                    treasury, is now so indebted that the individual states together owe almost 200
                                    million dollars, mostly in Europe, with interest also flowing there in ringing coin.
                                    It is clear, then, why cash money here must diminish more and more.
                        The character of the government is also reflected in the households of the Americans.
                                    Twice as much is cooked or baked than is eaten and, when mealtime is over, the pigs,
                                    dogs and cats get all the leftovers—ham, baked goods and so on.
                        So this is the situation and one can only draw the conclusion that we must be very
                                    unhappy after investing so much money, effort and time to make a better life for
                                    ourselves. This may be true of many people who are merely interested in getting rich
                                    but it is not the case with us; since we can not sell anything any more, we keep no
                                    laborers, except those who will accept the products of our land as payment. We have
                                    reduced our requirements for luxuries very sharply: we drink coffee on Sundays only,
                                    go barefoot all summer and make our own clothes because we keep sheep and can also
                                    make flax. Up to now we still have some clothes left from 
                                        Germany
                                     and the little equipment we need for our household is made for us by
                                    workers who are willing to accept our farm products in return.
                        We have a barn and dwellings comfortable enough for us, and a large quantity of food.
                                    We eat young and old chickens, baked and cooked, turkeys, the finest smoked meat,
                                    bread and everything which can be made from wheat. (We have this year again 20 acres
                                    of very good wheat). We also enjoy a variety of good things from our beautiful
                                    garden which has pathways and a picketfence round about. Our apple and peach trees
                                    are growing very rapidly because we are taking very good care of them and in a few
                                    years we shall also have a surplus of those fruits.  We make our own sugar and, instead of green tea, we
                                    make our own from the root of sassafras, which is very tasty and I even prefer it to
                                    the green tea. Also, it can be had for free from the woods nearby.
                        Since we have enough food, we feed our five horses, four cows and other livestock
                                    well; therefore all of them—chickens, geese and turkeys
                                    included—are so lively and content that it is a joy. Only our 100 pigs
                                    are more meagerly provided for because they are of no value to us at all; still,
                                    they get just enough because, after all, they are living creatures. Also, they
                                    scream fiercely in unison when they want anything.
                        We still have a few hundred dollars in cash and the 2,000 acres of land may be a good
                                    financial cushion for our children in the future, aside from the farm whereon we
                                    live. Although I have to work very hard—we all have to—it has
                                    now become a habit with us, so that without this work we would hardly feel
                                    comfortable. When it becomes necessary, everyone shares the labor in the fields,
                                    mother, Emilie and Nanni. Grandfather, who is still as healthy as the day he left 
                                        Germany
                                    ,10 continues with his woodworking on the carving
                                    and planing bench, and his skill is often needed. My dear good wife sees to the
                                    cleanliness of the house and the children, as far as this is possible, has much
                                    other work, and also cooks tasty and healthy meals. Hardly anyone has been sick in
                                    our house for the almost seven years we are here. Nearly everyone around us has been
                                    sick at one time or another in the summer. Only my dear wife was very ill three
                                    years ago. She lost so much blood that I had to prepare myself to lose her. It was a
                                    very hard blow for me but it is my firm conviction that 
                                        Providence
                                     guides everything and so I accepted God's will with an aching
                                    heart, having already planned what to do with my children, but it pleased the Ruler
                                    of this World to keep her in our midst a little longer so that she would be able to
                                    continue to do many more good deeds. Again, 1 1/2 years ago, this dear one was in
                                    sad condition; she suffered from a bad chest so severely that everyone was sure that
                                    she would die. I wanted to call a doctor but she would not permit it and,
                                    considering the great ignorance of the local physicians, she acted wisely because
                                    very likely he would have put her in her 
                              
                                 10 In 1842 Emilie Zumpfe married Gottlieb Willharm.
                                            Schramm gave the couple eighty of the two thousand acres that he had
                                            purchased in 
                                                Boone County
                                            . Grandfather Karl Friedrich Junghaus died "a few years
                                            before" 1846. Vonnegut, Schramm Letters, 297; Biographical Memoirs of 
                                                    Hancock county
                                                , Indiana (
                                                Logansport
                                            , Ind., 1902), 462.
                           
                                     grave.11 We had brought
                                    along a medical book from 
                                        Germany
                                    , written there by a very knowledgable doctor. She resorted to it,
                                    following its instructions and taking the simple medications prescribed therein.
                                    Thus, with God's help, she restored her bad chest to health again.
                                    Invariably, when one or the other does not feel well in our house, she knows how to
                                    help by using that book. For this reason she is planting a multitude of useful herbs
                                    in the garden, to make tea with, or for compresses and so on. Only here have I
                                    learned to appreciate the great value of a perceptive and virtuous mother of the
                                    house. It is a great treasure, greater than all the riches a woman can bring to a
                                    man.
                        Now we have four children—Nanni, who will soon be 10 years old, Mathilde
                                    nearly seven, Gustav almost five and August two years old.12
                                    They are all healthy children, laughing and thriving, so that it is a pleasure to
                                    see. Nanni, the oldest, is able to help her mother quite a bit and also helps me in
                                    the fields, mainly during the planting of corn and with the first plowing. We have
                                    no school here and, if we did, I would not send her to keep her from seeing or
                                    hearing bad examples from other children. I teach her myself although my many labors
                                    leave me little time, except during winter evenings. Things work out fine then but
                                    even in the summer each child must practice writing or arithmetic daily. I examine
                                    their work when I have a free quarter of an hour and call their attention to any
                                    mistakes. No beatings are given for errors and my approval or disapproval is their
                                    sole reward or punishment and sufficient to let me achieve what I desire. None of
                                    our children have been beaten more than once or twice—there was no need
                                    for more because they obey to the letter. Naturally, one must permit them many
                                    childlike pleasures—often very noisy—to prevent their falling
                                    into evil ways.
                        On winter evenings, after lessons, I play with them, read to them about matters they
                                    can comprehend or I tell them a story which is always wholesome in content and
                                    stresses righteousness. In this way the children find their greatest pleasure in
                                        
                              
                                 11 For a discussion of illness and medical practices
                                            in the pioneer Middle West see Madge E. Pickard and R. Carlyle Buley, The Midwest Pioneer: His 
                                                    Ills
                                                , Cures, and Doctors (
                                                New York
                                            , 1946).
                              
                                 12 Nanni, or Nannette, died in 1846 at age fourteen.
                                            Maria Matilde at age twenty-one married Henry Schnull, a businessman from 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            . Richard C. Vonnegut, Sr., contributor of this letter, is
                                            descended from this line. Gustav and August continued to work the home farm
                                            together until 1877 when it was divided between the two. A third son,
                                            Hermann, died in infancy. Biographical Memoirs of 
                                                    Hancock county
                                                
                                 , 463–64; Vonnegut, Schramm
                                                Letters, 297.
                           
                                     our company. This lonely life in the
                                    wilderness, which hardly permits contact with any other human beings, has its good
                                    points, in fact, excellent points once one gets used to it.
                        Which decent parents can be indifferent to whether their children are devout and
                                    good, without guile, industrious and content to work, modest in their demands, free
                                    of vanity and compassionate even to animals; are helpful to everyone
                                    and—next to God—love their parents above anything and will
                                    obey their slightest wish even after they are grown. I have seen enough in thickly
                                    populated 
                                        Germany
                                     to know that the opposite is often true in spite of the best efforts of
                                    the parents. Therefore, as long as my children are in need of any training I am
                                    content to stay in my wilderness. This is not a trifling matter!
                        If anything is broken in our house or any other mishap occurs, the one responsible
                                    immediately comes forth to admit it. Clearly then, there will be only a loving
                                    admonition instead of physical punishment. Briefly stated, we are building a small
                                    world for ourselves in which there is no selfishness and therefore only contentment.
                                    If only times were better and I could afford a worker to take my place, I would have
                                    more leisure to be with my children. I would teach them more than they could learn
                                    in any school because I would learn from my books about any subject that I am not
                                    quite familiar with. These books are a boundless treasure for me. Admittedly, I can
                                    not read very much because I have no time, but the little that I do read is a balm
                                    for my spirit and I dwell on it during my solitary labors where I am undisturbed.
                        It is quite different when one is surrounded by people, who must be supervised to
                                    some extent, a situation which inevitably tends to bring anger and strife, and to
                                    what purpose? If I gathered great riches for my children by leading a life of
                                    tumult, worry and vexations, they could readily waste their fortune with others when
                                    they are grown and there would be no way for me to stop them. It is better, indeed,
                                    that I enjoy my life with my family. My children—trained in hard
                                    work—will be self-sufficient after my death. They will live content, with
                                    few needs, loving God and their fellow men, and they will bless my memory.
                        I notice with pleasure from your letter that your business has markedly improved and
                                    that you, dear Karl, were able to eliminate many obstacles which troubled you. It
                                    must be a great satisfaction to have achieved so much through your own strength,
                                    courage and endurance. Since I am familiar with all  the circumstances prior to my departure, I am all the
                                    more amazed at your achievements in these few years. My wife and I share your
                                    satisfaction.
                        If it were only possible to visit you dear ones; what a joy that would be after so
                                    long a separation! Unfortunately this can not be because we must yield to duties,
                                    which must take precedence over the heart's desires. My dear ones, I do not
                                    despair and I believe that I will see you and embrace you again if 
                                        Providence
                                     wills it. I was thinking of selling my land and farm here and
                                    everything I own when times get better, even after many years, and return to 
                                        Germany
                                    ; possibly I would only visit there with my family, circumstances
                                    permitting. This would not be extraordinary, if financial conditions became
                                    stabilized which will be sooner or later. By that time perhaps I will prefer to live
                                    here instead of there because habits are often hard to break; still, it is my firm
                                    intention to see you, dear ones, and the many fine, decent people we had the good
                                    fortune to know there. I am confident that 
                                        Providence
                                     will guide my steps, knowing best what is good for all of us. Spirits
                                    can communicate more truly with other spirits, because there are no distances
                                    dividing them, such as exist between man and his fellow man. So says Father
                                        Zschokke,13 and so it is indeed, because I am often with
                                    you.
                        Dear friends of my heart, you have succeeded admirably in your business through hard
                                    work, good thinking and tenacity. This has not been the case with
                                    us—despite all our labors we have not made progress. These are the ways
                                    of 
                                        Providence
                                     for which I always have deep respect. I am sure that your difficulties
                                    have increased since your business has grown so much. Problems that you never had
                                    before must have arisen to take the place of those you had solved. This is the way
                                    of life and no earthly power can change it because it is a sign from the great Ruler
                                    of this World that our hearts should not cleave to earthly things too much. He shows
                                    the spirit the transitoriness and constant change of tangible things and the spirit
                                    finally disdains them, returns unto itself and, by becoming independent, attains the
                                    greatest heights of happiness. We are therefore not worried about the future because
                                    our happiness and contentment does not depend on it. We fulfill our obligations and
                                    leave the rest to 
                                        Providence
                                    .
                        
                           
                              13 Johann Heinrich Daniel Zschokke (1771–1848),
                                        a famous German author of short stories, melodramas, and writings on religious
                                        and moralistic subjects, was a friend of Jacob Schramm. Schramm used
                                        Zschokke's Hours of Devotion for the
                                        family's Sunday services. Vonnegut, Schramm Letters,
                                        300.
                        
                        
                        In the evening hours, it warms my heart to behold the starry sky and I feel closer to
                                    the great Creator, and all our cares on earth appear petty and ridiculous. I seek
                                    out every opportunity to imbue my family with these great and noble joys because I
                                    am convinced that in this way I can build a lasting happiness for them, such as I
                                    experience so often myself. We embrace all mankind with love (within reason, of
                                    course) and in our household there is no anger, hatred, envy, schadenfreude14 or any emotion to impoverish man's life and make it
                                    a hell, albeit it would be in his power to make it a heaven on earth.
                        Indeed, I would often like to drink a glass of wine or beer with you, my best friend,
                                    but since it cannot be done I do not consider it a great loss because I also need
                                    not cope with the frustrations of my former hops trade—may it rest in
                                    peace. While I am on the subject of hops trade—I see from your letter
                                    that your brother lost 3000 Gulden15 in that business. I am
                                    terribly sorry to hear this and I am sure that you, a reasonable man, will not blame
                                    me for this. I am quite certain that I would have earned 4000 Gulden in the same
                                    time and under the same trading conditions that your brother lost 3000. You
                                    don't believe this? I have no doubts about it at all. Unfortunately at the
                                    time I did not know your brother well enough; if I did, I would not have transferred
                                    the business to him even if I had to stay there all my life. In the beginning, I
                                    came to know him as a righteous, reasonable and good-natured man—an
                                    opinion I never had reason to change—but, as I later realized, he lacked
                                    the necessary energy, patience and unrelenting drive, so even then I was reasonably
                                    sure that he would lose 3000 Gulden. Then, I say it was too late for me, as a
                                    rational man, to make a change without becoming a laughing stock before the world
                                    and also losing the confidence of the people—you know that best, my dear
                                    Karl! I am also quite sure that you and your dear wife will not hold this against
                                    me, even though others may. My intentions were honorable and I was sure that in the
                                    future I could earn more than ever in that business because I had the confidence of
                                    both buyers and sellers to a much higher degree than in former years. But enough of
                                    that; it was the will of 
                                        Providence
                                     and that comforts me. I would rather give up my last penny than be the
                                    cause of another man's misfortune but I 
                              
                                 14 The translator interprets
                                            "schadenfreude" as "taking pleasure in the
                                            misfortunes of others."
                              
                                 15 The gulden had various values but was ordinarily
                                            worth about forty cents. Vonnegut, Schramm Letters,
                                        227n.
                           
                                     cannot make people strong, active or content
                                    with their lot. Therefore if anyone does not want to help himself, even God cannot
                                    help him because he is not using the powers that 
                                        Providence
                                     has given him.
                        Mr. Richter, who brought your letter to me, was here almost the whole winter. He
                                    helped us with the harvesting of our corn and the husking and that was no small
                                    labor because we had nearly 700 Strich. He also helped us with the slaughtering and
                                    processing of our 56 pigs and that was a considerable accomplishment. He learned to
                                    cut wood as well as anyone here and in general he is a very handy and useful person.
                                    He lost his God, however, and his belief in virtue and contentment and with it all
                                    joy from his heart. He must be quite unhappy; I have often noticed it. He appeared
                                    to be happy with our family since at first he intended to stay only a few weeks but
                                    then decided to stay most of the winter. He has written me recently and is now in 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     to become a shoemaker.
                        Mr. Richter appeared to be drawn by the example set by our family of unity,
                                    contentment and joy but it appears that he has strayed much too far from that path
                                    to be able to return to it again. Love of God and faith in Him does not warm his
                                    heart any more; the moon is just the moon and the stars are merely stars as far as
                                    he is concerned. Beholding them does not fill his heart with the wonder of creation
                                    and so this unfortunate one is not really alive—he is already dead. I and
                                    my good wife tried very hard to restore in him the holy faith in God but it was in
                                    vain; his heart remained cold as ice. The cause appears to lie with the training he
                                    received in his youth and his experiences in later years must have compounded the
                                    problem. Heavens, how miserable such a man must be! I shudder when I think of it and
                                    cannot understand how he can bear this kind of life.
                        Oh, best Karl, in your spare time turn your greatest attention to the education of
                                    your children! Make them enjoy your company lest they fall under the bad influence
                                    of others. Impress their young hearts and entertain them with stories from books, or
                                    thought up by you, it does not matter as long as they are effective. Dear friends of
                                    my heart, build a small world for yourselves in your leisure time and need one
                                    another! You will soon feel in your heart the blessings to follow. Only here have I
                                    come to appreciate the joys of family life and the beauty of it.
                        Finally I see in your letter a small addition from my little Karl! That really
                                    pleases me that you still think of me because I very often think of you! You are
                                    wondering if there is anything  that you could
                                    do here. The answer is no! You can tell about conditions here from this letter and
                                    this state is still too young and new for factories, which are in the eastern states
                                    where I have no connections. I am sure there is no need for you to leave because if
                                    you are—as I hope—a hardworking, handy and hopeful young man
                                    worthy of your righteous and good parents, there must be plenty for you to do in
                                    your father's house and you can relieve that good man of many a burden he
                                    had to carry alone up to now. If your parents think it desirable, you might go
                                    abroad in 
                                        Germany
                                     to look around and learn something.
                        Do not, my true friend, concern yourself with harmful desires! Cast them off like
                                    vipers! Live only for your calling and seek your pleasure in God's approval
                                    and that of your conscience and your parents. It is the greatest pleasure, greater
                                    than all the tickling of the senses. Believe this, my young friend! I mean well and
                                    I have more experience than anyone could have at your age.
                        Be dedicated to your obligations and persevere during long and difficult tasks.
                                    Always be of good cheer, making a happy face, and everyone will like you. To achieve
                                    contentment and satisfaction, deny yourself some pleasure occasionally and impose on
                                    yourself voluntarily more effort and labor than would be necessary. Live modestly
                                    and partake of the simplest food and drink in preference to that which is spicy and
                                    strong and—above everything—get some decent books, such as The
                                    Hours of Meditation. Read it every free hour and you will find refreshment for your
                                    spirit and joy in the fulfillment of your duties. If your co-workers should laugh,
                                    let them; the loss is theirs and the great blissful gain is yours! Oh, my Karl! If
                                    only I could be with you, my young friend! If I could only keep you from the
                                    poisonous pursuits which spoil body and soul, and could implant in you an
                                    appreciation for the finer enjoyments, my time would be spent well indeed! You would
                                    thank me, once you experienced the overwhelmingly blessed feeling of having
                                    faithfully discharged your duties. Since we are so far away from each other, I can
                                    only convey to you this way my own experiences and hope that you will heed them. If
                                    you do, you will have a feeling of self-respect and one day, when you will be
                                    honored—as your dear father is now—by your fellow citizens for
                                    your knowledge and your integrity, I shall embrace the well turned out son of my
                                    best friend with tears of joy if fate decrees that I should return to 
                                        Germany
                                     again.
                        
                        To be truly content, dear Karl, you must free yourself of all unnecessary desires and
                                    use always less than you gain; then you will have abundance. You will be rich,
                                    independent of others, and able to do good deeds where you see the need for it. Not
                                    dancing and gambling must be your entertainments, which murder virtue and innocence
                                    unless enjoyed in wise company—rarely found in places catering to these
                                    diversions. Your inner strength and your sense of dignity must let you disdain such
                                    mindless amusements. Nature, the rising and setting of the sun and moon and the
                                    starlit sky should give you much joy. During the night hours, remember the great
                                    Creator who made these heavenly bodies maintains and rules them; they were not
                                    created without purpose. In all likelihood they are peopled with spirit beings and
                                    one of them is probably intended for our functioning in the future but we can only
                                    be as happy there as we were before leaving this planet earth to start anew. These
                                    are great, uplifting joys and profound reasons for being devout and righteous and I
                                    have been, and still am, practicing these virtues happily.
                        I will be pleased, my dear young friend, if you will write me more about your
                                    circumstances, the state of your spirit and your general situation. You can be
                                    assured of my continuing great interest in you.
                        Now, all my dear friends, I must close. Although there is much more I could write
                                    about America which is worth knowing, I must not do so all at once, or I will not
                                    have anything to write about next time. Do write about what Nanni and Julichen are
                                    doing! Send both of them our hearty greetings. Do you have any more I don't
                                    know about? Let me know! I am now looking forward to your answer in six
                                    months—a long one! We are all eagerly waiting for it!
                        My good wife and the grandfather would have liked to add a few words but they are not
                                    great friends of writing, particularly since they have to write to my brother-in-law
                                    Dietrich anyway, who will send you this letter. They send you their warmest
                                    greetings and I now take my leave of you dear ones and remain, with deep love and
                                    true respect,
                        
                                    Your sincere friend
                                    Jacob Schramm
                                
                        My
                                    address:
                              J. Schramm,
                              Cumberland Post Office,
                              
                                 
                                    Marion County
                                 , State of Indiana
                              over Havre de Grace and 
                                    New York
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Being Lucky: Reminiscences and Reflections. By Herman B Wells. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1980. Pp. xiii, 493. Illustrations, notes, appendix, index.
                    $17.50.)
            A chronicle of the life, times, and achievements of an outstanding person in any field of endeavor
                    makes for stimulating and informative reading. The exciting volume, Being Lucky,
                    written by Herman B Wells belongs in this category. It has been said that a college or university is
                    the lengthened shadow of the man who guides the institution during a particular point in history.
                    The history of Indiana University from 1937 to 1962 does indeed represent the lengthened shadow of
                    Wells. The qualitative and quantitative development of the university is directly attributable to
                    the energy and effort of this outstanding educator.
            The volume is comprehensive yet is written in a spirit of light-hearted reminiscence. It is scholarly
                    in its accuracy but is personal in style. It is an autobiography yet has the impact of history. Its
                    subject matter is Indiana University, but its scope relates to the state of Indiana, the 
                        United States
                    , and the world. Wells's humor, wit, and humanness pervade every chapter.
                    Indiana University's chancellor undertakes a serious subject but is not serious about
                    himself. Characteristically, he minimizes his contribution to the enterprise and gives others the
                    credit for its success; indeed, one of the weaknesses of the volume is its failure to put into
                    proper perspective the tremendous role which Wells played in the endeavors he describes. The title
                    itself, Being Lucky, characterizes the author's modesty. One must probe
                    and project in order to sense Wells's full impact.
            The chapters on "The Presidency" constitute a handbook for college administrators.
                    They clearly demonstrate the problems, challenges, and opportunities facing a college administrator
                    today. Wells's skill in solving problems, facing challenges, and converting opportunities
                    is immediately apparent to the reader. The author is, indeed, "a president's
                    president."
            Hoosier pride is ever present in the volume. It is particularly evident in those chapters in which
                    Wells describes his youth in Jamestown, Indiana, his college years, and his apprenticeship in
                    academic administration. He loves his state just as he loves his university.
            
            Wells may regard himself as lucky; however, those who know him and who know of his accomplishments
                    believe that they are the ones who are lucky because they have been fortunate to observe his genius
                    at work through the decades.
            
               
                  
                            Hanover
                         College, 
                            Hanover
                        , Ind. John E. Horner
         
         
            
               Slave and Freeman: The Autobiography of George L. Knox. Edited by Willard B.
                    Gatewood, Jr. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1979. Pp. 247. Frontispiece, notes, bibliography, index. $17.00)
            In 1892 
                        Indianapolis
                     businessman, barber-extraordinaire, and former slave George L. Knox acquired the
                    failing 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Freeman newspaper. Two years later, 
                        Knox
                    's autobiography, "Life as I Remember It—As a Slave and
                    Freeman," began its one-year run in the black weekly. Willard B. Gatewood, Jr., has
                    transformed this poorly written, disjointed story into a well-edited, thoroughly documented research
                    source of nineteenth-century Indiana history. Blended together are ample doses of local history,
                    Civil War narrative, Methodist church history, Afro-American history, late-nineteenth-century
                    Hoosier politics, oratory, and 
                        Knox
                    's go-getter, "up from the bootstraps" philosophy.
            Unfortunately, the ex-slave's self-serving success story is not as even as
                    Gatewood's in-depth research. 
                        Knox
                    's account of slavery does not give any great insights into 
                        Tennessee
                     slave life or life as a slave on the Confederate front lines. Although his war
                    descriptions improve when he acquires freedom and takes work with two Indiana regiments, they still
                    lack the human drama that 
                        Knox
                     must have experienced as a newly freed slave fighting for the Union.
            
               
                        Knox
                    's memoirs after leaving the South are of higher caliber. 
                        Knox
                     joined Indiana soldiers heading home for a thirty-day furlough in the spring of 1864
                    and thus tasted northern-style freedom. At 
                        Jeffersonville
                     he encountered inhospitable Hoosiers who threatened to "kill the first
                    ‘nigger’ on Indiana soil" (p. 73). 
                        Knox
                     decided to brave northern racism and remain in Indiana rather than return to the 
                        Tennessee
                     front. After a brief apprenticeship in an 
                        Indianapolis
                     barbershop and a rather dismal experience in 
                        Kokomo
                    , he settled in 
                        Greenfield
                     to begin a nineteen-year stint as 
                        Hancock county
                    's "famous tonsorial artist" (p. 216).
            
            The 
                        Greenfield
                     barber's narrative is laced with fascinating descriptions of
                    reconstruction-era political contests, biracial revivalist campmeetings, incidents of individual and
                    institutional racism, and local history. Sprinkled throughout are anecdotes about prominent
                    personalities, including James Whitcomb Riley, who handpainted 
                        Knox
                    's shaving mugs; evangelist Marie B. Woodworth-Etter; Frederick Douglass;
                    Thomas A. Hendricks; and Daniel W. Voorhees. 
                        Knox
                    's importance to Afro-American history is demonstrated by his attendance at the
                    National Negro Conference of 1879 in 
                  Nashville,
                            Tennessee
               , and his notoriety as
                    "the boss of emigration" (p. 113) during an 1880 incident when twenty-seven
                    southern blacks arrived in 
                        Greenfield
                    .
            The lure of expanded business opportunities prompted 
                        Knox
                     to relocate in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1884. By 1895 he was the wealthiest black in the city, employing forty people in his
                    successful barbershop enterprise. The narrative bogs down in 
                        Knox
                    's long-winded, sanctimonious description of his participation at national
                    conventions of the Methodist church. Gate wood could have pared down portions of this section. There
                    are, however, intriguing accounts of the behind-the-scenes action to secure Benjamin
                    Harrison's nomination at the 1892 Republican National Convention. 
                        Knox
                    's portrayal of the Hoosier delegation and his role as a black delegate from
                    the nominee's home state highlight Slave and Freeman.
            
            Although uneven, 
                        Knox
                    's narrative provides a plethora of information for those interested in
                    Indiana's black history. Much of the credit goes to Gatewood, who has done an excellent job
                    of tracking down documentation on elusive people, places, and events; writing a thorough
                    introduction; and, above all, resurrecting 
                        Knox
                    's memory from the pages of the Freeman.
            
            
               
                  
                            San Francisco
                         Art Institute, 
                            San Francisco
                        
                Jeff Gunderson
         
         
            
               Overland by Auto in 1913: Diary of a Family Tour from 
                            California
                         to Indiana. By Estella M. Copeland. Indiana Historical Society
                        Publications, Volume XXVI, Number 2. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1981. Pp. 86. Illustrations, notes, maps. Paperbound,
                    $2.00.)
            When one reads the subtitle to Overland By Auto in 1913: Diary of a Family Tour from 
                            California
                         to Indiana, one is taken aback; did the Copeland family really move from west
                    to east? Indeed they did, all five of them: Guy and Estella, aged forty-one  and thirty-four respectively; their two sons, William (eleven) and Burl
                    (eight); and Guy's mother, Nancy Wells Cope-land, who was sixty-seven at the time. They
                    were not the only ones to make the reverse trip from west to east. Many others also returned home to
                    the East or Midwest, having discovered that 
                        California
                     was not the Utopia they had anticipated.
            There is more going on in Estella Copeland's diary, however, than the decision of the family
                    to leave the charms of the Golden State, or "city life," as they called it, to
                    return to their farm in Indiana. The book is also an interesting account of the development (or, as
                    was often the case, the nondevelopment) of American highways in this early period. With the highways
                    as the tie that binds, readers learn about the landscape, the weather, the camaraderie of fellow
                    travelers, and the attitude of the twentieth-century settlers toward Indians.
            Having decided to journey by automobile rather than by train, the Copelands turned to the American
                    Automobile Association for help. The association, founded in 1902, furnished maps and advice.
                    Although it tried to minimize the difficulties of the journey by automobile, the AAA advised that
                    "at least two cars should travel fairly well together, especially in the West in case of
                    accident to one, the other car could either render immediate aid and/or go for medical assistance,
                    water, gasoline, oil or food" (p. 15).
            Fortunately the Copelands did encounter another family en route, one of whom was a doctor who proved
                    a source of sound advice when William Copeland became ill, probably from heat and exhaustion (it
                    registered as high as 110° in the shade). Mrs. Copeland wrote about her son's
                    illness in this interesting entry, which also shows her distrust of Indians:
                  
                     
                        June 3…. Wm. has got turned against his milk, … there are 4
                                    young chicks of about 1 1/2 1b the Dr. says better kill one so we do, make a good
                                    broth he took some then slept all night At dark an Indian came he staid all night
                                    … We don't go to bed very early would rather not have had
                                    company but he seems tame (p. 43, 45).
                     
                  
               
            
            Editorial comment adds the continuity of personality to the Copeland diary, which often understates
                    what must have been formidable obstacles: "A desert dust storm is not pleasant"
                    (p. 39); "such a dangerous readjust one little something wrong and we would land hundreds
                    of feet down among the rocks" (pp. 40–41); "I was unceremoniously
                    wakened from a nap this afternoon by an earthquake" (p. 32). When the Copelands reach home,
                    the diary simply reads: "Thus the long journey is done" (p. 79).
            
            But the picturesqueness is there. The Copelands, for all their quiet words, were adventuresome: it
                    was in many ways as dramatic to travel half way across the continent in 1913 by automobile as it had
                    been by covered wagon three quarters of a century earlier. Too few records of such families exist.
                    This is a welcome addition to the social history of that period.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Joyce G. Williams
         
         
            
               Representative Democracy: Public Policy and Midwestern Legislatures in the Late
                        Nineteenth Century. By Ballard C. Campbell. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1980. Pp. xi, 260. Tables, figure, appendix, notes, index.
                    $20.00.)
            Professor Ballard C. Campbell states quite accurately that his book is "based on
                    observations about houses of representatives" in 
                  Illinois, Wisconsin
               , and 
                        Iowa
                     between 1886 and 1895 (p. 3). The result is an excellent study of the lower house in
                    each state for those years. The book is not, however, a study of midwestern legislatures as implied
                    by the title. The senates of the three states are excluded from 
                        Campbell
                    's analysis. Also, such midwestern states as 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Michigan
                     are not even mentioned.
            Despite the inaccuracies in the title the book is worthwhile. It analyzes representative democracy as
                    reflected in the lower houses during fifteen sessions (five sessions in each state). An introductory
                    chapter explains the limits of the study and gives an overview. The book then proceeds methodically
                    and logically with nine chapters that include such topics as getting elected, lawmakers and
                    lawmaking, the contested issues, parties and partisanship, and fiscal policy. Specialists in
                    legislative history will be impressed by the thoroughness of 
                        Campbell
                    's research. Generalists will learn all they want to know about each
                    state's house of representatives during the decade covered.
            For those fascinated by quantification 
                        Campbell
                     includes twenty-four tables. Readers unfamiliar with the techniques and language of
                    statistical analysis, however, should be forewarned. The tables depict such things as the
                    "Cumulative percentage of variance explained and beta values for scales on Community Mores
                    and economic policy" (Table 7.3). They also abound with complicated explanatory footnotes:
                    "The Pearson correlation (r) differs from its reciprocal ('variance
                    explained') because of the  three-party circumstance in 
                        Illinois
                     in 1887; two dummy party variables were used in the multiple correlation" (p.
                    138).
            Sumptuary legislation dominated the sessions that 
                        Campbell
                     covers. (This was true during the same years in sessions in other states, including
                    Indiana). 
                        Campbell
                     considers "blue laws" in Chapter 6, "Legislating Community
                    Mores." He offers detailed information on the ethnic, religious, and political backgrounds
                    of those on all sides of the temperance issue and of laws that forbade dancing, card-playing, and
                    Sabbath-breaking. Similar analyses are offered for legislation affecting social minorities such as
                    women, foreign language groups, blacks, and children.
            
               
                        Campbell
                     concludes that individual lawmakers should not be reduced to mere ciphers on a computer
                    printout. While admitting that party and background played important roles in determining how
                    legislators voted, he nonetheless writes: "Close inspection of roll call voting shows that
                    beneath the larger behavioral uniformities lay instructive deviations from state to state, from year
                    to year, and from issue to issue" (p. 105). The point is well taken and should be
                    remembered by those who study the legislature of any state. Lawmakers in Indiana certainly conformed
                    to "larger behavioral uniformities" in the 1880s and 1890s. There is too great a
                    correlation between voting patterns and party, district, ethnicity, and religious affiliation to say
                    otherwise. In the final analysis, however, laws were made by flesh-and-blood human beings whose
                    motivations were as different and numerous as there were representatives and senators in the Indiana
                    General Assembly. 
                        Campbell
                     proves that this was also true of the legislatures in 
                  Illinois, Wisconsin
               ,
                    and 
                        Iowa
                    .
            
               Centennial History of the Indiana General Assembly, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Justin E. Walsh
         
         
            
               Charter for a New Age: An Inside View of the Sixth 
                            Illinois
                         Constitutional Convention. By Elmer Gertz and Joseph P. Pisciotte. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, for the Institute of Government and Public Affairs, 1980. Pp. xii, 378. Notes,
                    appendixes, index. $15.00.)
            On December 8, 1969, 116 delegates convened in 
                        Springfield
                     to rewrite the 1870 
                        Illinois
                     constitution. Over the next ten months they accomplished their task and submitted the
                    new document to the people for ratification on December  15,
                    1970. The people approved the work, which became effective on July 1, 1971. The Institute of
                    Government and Public Affairs of the University of 
                        Illinois
                     authorized the writing of a series of ten monographs to record and analyze the revision
                    process. Charter for a New Age is the final and capstone volume. The authors were
                    intimately involved with the convention, Joseph P. Pisciotte as executive director and Elmer Gertz
                    as a delegate and chairman of the Bill of Rights Committee.
            The first eight chapters provide summary information on the movement to alter the constitution; the
                    selection of delegates; the structure of the body, including officers and committees; the role of
                    outside groups, including lobbyists, interest groups, and the media; and controversies within the
                    convention. Chapters 9 through 17 present a brief synopsis of the activities of the nine substantive
                    standing committees. Each chapter contains an analysis of the membership, significant contributions
                    of key individuals or groups, the major differences and controversies, and the final result. The
                    final three chapters cover the hectic closing days and adoption of the document by the convention,
                    the approval by the people, and a brief review of the successes and failures of the convention.
            Although the authors were aligned closely with the convention, they fairly and impartially identify
                    the contributions of the delegates—in particular those of Samuel W. Witwer who served as
                    president—the disputes, and the compromises. Non-contributors are also recognized.
            The nine specialized monographs plus this summary volume provide the most comprehensive analysis of
                    any state and constitutional convention in American history. It would have been useful, however, to
                    have included a copy of the constitution in the appendixes of the volume.
            
               University of 
                            Texas
                        , San Antonio Dwight F. Henderson
         
         
            
               Report on a Journey to the Western States of North America and a Stay of Several
                        Years Along the 
                            Missouri
                        
                (During the Years 1824, '25, '26, and
                    1827). By Gottfried Duden. Edited and translated by James W. Goodrich et al. (
                        Columbia
                    : State Historical Society of 
                        Missouri
                     and University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 1980. Pp. xxiv, 372. End maps, notes, appendixes, index. $22.00.)
            Gottfried Duden was born in 1785 at Remscheid, 
                        Germany
                    , and at twenty-one began his legal studies at Düsseldorf. After a short stay
                    at Heidelberg he transferred to G$oUttingen, where he  received his law degree in 1810. As a prosecutor he witnessed much suffering. In his opinion the
                    majority of the crimes were due to poverty and over-population. Plagued by this situation, he
                    obtained a leave of absence to study medicine at the University of Bonn. Because of ill health and
                    the desire to visit America, he requested a release from his duties in 1823.
            On June 8, 1824, Duden and Ludwig Eversmann, a young agriculturist, sailed on the Henry
                        Clay, arriving in 
                        Baltimore
                     on August 14. After a stay of ten days the two men purchased two draft horses and a
                    good spring wagon for the journey into the interior. From 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        Louisville
                     the trip was made by water on a steamboat. After a journey of eight weeks they arrived
                    in 
                        St. Louis
                     the latter part of October. Duden purchased over 270 acres of land in 
                        Montgomery
                     (now 
                        Warren
                    ) County, 
                        Missouri
                    . There he built a house and engaged in agriculture. On March 12, 1827, he departed for
                    Europe where he remained until his death in 1855 at Remscheid.
            Duden recorded the events of his journey in the 
                        United States
                     and made a careful study of his surroundings. These observations appeared as the famous
                        Report published in 1829 at Elberfeld by Sam Lucas. Three other editions,
                    1832, 1834, and 1835, were printed. "The Report … was a
                    masterpiece of promotional literature. Duden's adroit pen wove reality with poetry,
                    experience with dreams, and contrasted the freedom of the forests and democratic political
                    institutions in America with the social narrowness and the political confusion in 
                        Germany
                    " (p. xiii).
            William G. Bek translated the portions of the Report that were published in the 
                  
                            Missouri
                         Historical Review, volumes XII and XIII. The Report of the
                    1829 edition has now been translated and printed in its entirety. Revisions made by Duden in the
                    1834 edition are included in Appendix I and the editors' annotations are in Appendix II.
                    The editors did careful and extensive research which merits perusal of the Report
                    by anyone interested in pioneer life.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Elfrieda Lang
         
         
            
               The Popular Mood of Pre-Civil War America. By Lewis O. Saum. (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1980. Pp. xxiv, 336. Appendix, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)
            Capturing a "mood" can be at least as challenging as bottling a
                    will-o'-the-wisp. Here, a dedicated and ingenious author has consciously attempted it.
                    Exploiting the diaries, letters, and  "commonplace
                    jottings" of some two thousand "ordinary" Americans, Lewis O. Saum
                    constructs a narrative of the popular mood in the pre-Civil War period. Since he wants to record the
                    views of common folk, he appropriately excludes the work of professionals—journalists,
                    ministers, and educators—and of "subcultural or alien elements" deemed
                    to be unrepresentative (p. 237).
            Dividing his book into two parts, "Things Spiritual" and "Things
                    Temporal," Saum records popular opinions and beliefs about providence, religion, death,
                    self and society, politics, nature and art, and the West. His energetic research provides insightful
                    observations phrased in vigorous, idiomatic speech. In a thoughtful appendix on methodology he
                    predicts that some may pronounce his "approach" novel and that others will call it
                    "fruitless, if not impossible" (p. 230). Despite his successful search for
                    fugitive materials he testifies to the "vexations entailed in locating and analyzing the
                    written remains of a couple thousand unelevated mainstream Americans" (p. 237).
            Saum is bold enough to generalize, and his conclusions sometimes challenge textbook wisdom.
                    "The writings of the plain folk," he insists, "reveal almost
                    none" of that ebullient and assertive spirit that is found in the works of many scholars
                    (p. 138). Emphasis on illness and death in his sources provides a lugubrious damper for the
                    exuberant moods of Davy Crockett and the ring-tailed roarers featured in some studies. "Our
                    Western prairie," Ralph Waldo Emerson said, "shakes with fever and ague"
                    (p. 181); and people knew death "by its existential proximity as well as by its actuarial
                    prevalence" (p. 83). But, says Saum, they "left it to the Emersons to tame or
                    circumvent such agencies" as providence and circumstance (p. 138).
            The "overwhelming consideration in our ancestor's minds," Saum concludes,
                    was "the subduing of nature" (p. 176). He contradicts the notion of Carl Russell
                    Fish and others that politics was their "main preoccupation" (p. 144). From the
                    "scant remarks" he found concerning slavery Saum "gathers that the
                    average northerner felt no moral outrage over the ‘peculiar institution’ or
                    any intense solicitude for those fettered by it" (p. 172). Although people praised life in
                    the country, not everyone saw a "harsh intrusion" after the "machine had
                    gotten loose in the garden." Vermonter Zuar Jameson, for example, loved to hear the engines
                    and hoped for the day when he and his neighbors might hear "the steam whistle sound through
                    these values" (p. 182). Pioneers were "disarmingly  straightforward" in discussing their motivation for westward
                    migration. Saum concludes that "they sought lucre" (pp. 202, 203). As one
                    Californian said simply, "there is nothing like a new country for poor folks" (p.
                    205).
            Although at times Saum must struggle to give coherence to his diverse materials, he has nevertheless
                    approached his objective of describing the mood of pre-Civil War America in the idiom, commonplaces,
                    and "tone of voice" of the period (p. 240).
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Robert G. Gunderson
         
         
            
               Stones River—Bloody Winter in 
                            Tennessee
                        . By James Lee McDonough. (
                        Knoxville
                    : University of 
                        Tennessee
                     Press, 1980. Pp. xiv, 271. Illustrations, notes, maps, bibliography, index.
                    $14.50.)
            Practically every Civil War battle has been credited by one or more authors as constituting
                    "the turning point of the war." 
                  Shiloh, Gettysburg
               , Missionary
                    Ridge, 
                  Atlanta, Nashville
               , to name a few, have had their proponents over the years.
                    James Lee McDonough makes no such claim in this fine study of one of the war's most tragic
                    but unheralded struggles. He does, however, present a strong case to credit the battle as ranking
                    among the great engagements of the war.
            In the fall of 1862 the two great western armies faced each other barely thirty miles apart in middle 
                        Tennessee
                    : the Union Army of the Cumberland under William S. Rosecrans at 
                        Nashville
                    ; the Confederate Army of 
                        Tennessee
                     under Braxton Bragg at Murfreesboro below Stones River. Heavy Union lossess in the East
                    at 
                  Fredericksburg, Virginia
               , forced the Lincoln government to pressure Rosecrans to move
                    against Bragg and gain a victory.
            Though a particularly cold winter had settled over the region, Rosecrans, with 45,000 men, finally
                    started for Murfreesboro on December 29. In the early dawn of December 31, Bragg, commanding 37,000
                    effectives, almost pulverized him with a heavy strike on the Union right, doubling back the blue
                    line but failing to drive Rosecrans completely from the frozen field. Characteristically, Bragg did
                    not follow up his great victory with another blow the following day.
            Strangely, on January 2, with the northern army somewhat rested, Bragg sent 4,500 men across open
                    field against Union lines positioned on an elevated ridge. Initial success against the Union
                    infantry proved fruitless, however, when the attacking force was practically torn apart by a
                    punishing artillery  bombardment from across the river. Bragg
                    was thus forced to retreat southward again. Though suffering heavy casualties, the Union could claim
                    a great victory at a time when the fortunes of war were ebbing, and most of middle 
                        Tennessee
                     was closed forever to reoccupation by the Confederacy.
            Though McDonough raises some interesting questions about what went wrong with the Confederates at
                    Stones River, he provides few answers, a small weakness of the study, though not an unexpected one
                    considering the 118 years since the battle was fought. McDonough asks a number of questions. Why was
                    a 7,500-man Confederate division detached from Bragg's army and sent to 
                        Mississippi
                     on the eve of the battle? Would the presence of the division have made any difference
                    in the outcome? Why did Bragg permit Rosecrans on January 1 to regain a strategic hill overlooking
                    Confederate lines, then, abruptly, the next day try to regain it with heavy losses? So go the
                    unanswered queries which will fascinate Civil War buffs in years to come.
            The author quotes extensively from personal diaries, recollections, and regimental histories to give
                    the reader an "on the scene" picture of the battle and its terrible consequences.
                    Some of this material is quite effective, though portions of it at times interfere with the orderly
                    flow of the text. The author's occasional reliance on secondary sources when original
                    material is readily available detracts from the credit given his own thought and effort. For
                    example, William C. Davis's shallow study, Breckenridge: Statesman, Soldier,
                        Symbol (1974), is utilized much too frequently.
            Indiana was well represented with at least forty-five infantry, cavalry, and artillery units present.
                    Among those participating were Captain Eli Lilly, who would found the Eli Lilly Pharmaceutical
                    Company in 1876; Colonel Abel D. Streight, who would lead a daring raid across north 
                        Alabama
                     five months later; and Colonel Benjamin Harrison, who would become president of the 
                        United States
                    .
            Considering the magnitude of the battle, and its implications to the future course of the war, it is
                    surprising that McDonough's work is its first documented account since the early 1900s. His
                    serious, perceptive study, following his earlier impressive work on 
                        Shiloh
                    , places him near the forefront of a new contingent of outstanding Civil War historians.
            
               Indiana Library Association, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Elbert L. Watson
         
         
         
            
               Pioneer Women: Voices from the 
                            Kansas
                         Frontier. By Joanna L. Stratton. (
                        New York
                    : Simon and Schuster, 1981. Pp. 319. End maps, illustrations, appendix, bibliography,
                    index. $16.95.)
            
               Pioneer Women is based on a collection of eight hundred reminiscences gathered
                    during the 1920s by Lilla Day 
                        Monroe
                    , a pioneer 
                        Kansas
                     lawyer and suffragist. 
                        Monroe
                     believed that "no history … carried a good portrayal of the pioneer
                    housewife," and she planned to collect women's memoirs and reminiscences for a
                    book-length account of "the part women played in the early struggles to make 
                        Kansas
                    " (p. 20). 
                        Monroe
                     collected but never started writing. It remained for her great-grandaughter, Joanna
                    Stratton, to complete her task.
            Stratton has organized her material topically. The chapters include discussions of the westward
                    journey; problems of pioneer settlement; daily life; battles against Indians, prairie fires, and the
                    elements; family and community social activities; childhood experiences; schools, education, and
                    teachers; religious institutions; town as well as rural life; cowboys; immigrants; antislavery
                    campaigns and the Civil War; temperance; and suffrage. Stratton provides a continuity throughout the
                    volume by placing the reminiscences into a historical as well as topical framework and identifying
                    important people and events mentioned in or closely connected to the main themes of the narrative.
            Stratton's methodology, although aesthetically pleasing, is historically frustrating.
                    Reminiscences should be always subject to close scrutiny, but the materials in Stratton's
                    book pose special problems. The memoirs are divided among the various chapters so that it is
                    impossible to gain a sense of any one woman's experiences or the reliability of an
                    individual account. The majority of the reminiscences came from relatives or friends rather than the
                    women themselves, and some accounts are third-or even fourth-hand. Moreover, the women confined
                    themselves to subjects they considered "appropriate for publication" (p. 25), and
                    they may often have added subjects they believed should be in a pioneer reminiscence (such as a
                    grasshopper plague, Indian raid, or prairie fire) whether or not they directly experienced such
                    events. 
                        Monroe
                    's collection included only reminiscences of middle-class, literate,
                    Protestant, white women and a small number of European immigrants. Black and Indian women were not
                    included, nor were working women, barmaids, or prostitutes.
            
            Despite these problems and limitations the book should be of interest to both the scholarly and lay
                    public. The book is about 
                        Kansas
                     women, but Indiana readers will find memoirs of women who emigrated from Indiana, and
                    many of the experiences of these pioneers reflect universal rather than provincial or local frontier
                    experiences. Pioneer Women is recommended to both the serious student of the
                    frontier and to the casual reader.
            
               University of 
                            Texas
                        , Arlington Sandra L. Myres
         
         
            
               A History of Retirement: The Meaning and Function of an American Institition,
                        1885–1978. By William Graebner. (
                        New Haven
                    : Yale University Press, 1980. Pp. x, 293. Notes, tables, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $22.50.)
            This volume by Professor William Graebner has nothing to do with the joys and problems of people
                    living in retirement, nor does the author endeavor to review fully retirement legislation of the
                    past. Rather the book is an orderly survey of the relationship of retirement to unemployment and the
                    development of social security during the past century of a changing American capitalism. The
                    problem of retirement for an aging population became more difficult as the rural America of the
                    midnineteenth century gradually shifted to the urban industrial economy of the twentieth century.
                    Retirement on the family farm or to the nearby village was one thing—retiring to a big
                    city tenement was far different.
            Early in the present century a definite discrimination against the older worker began to appear. The
                    shorter work day, the use of new expensive complex machinery, and an increased emphasis upon greater
                    productivity often seemed to bring grief to the older worker. Herbert Hoover's Committee on
                    Recent Economic Changes found that the new job climate placed a premium upon the vigor of youth. The
                    author presents three case studies covering early efforts in the twentieth century to obtain
                    improved retirement programs in federal civil service, education, and industry.
            A major change appeared during the Great Depression with the passage of the Social Security Act in
                    1935. Most historians agree with Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., who held that the new welfare
                    legislation "began a new phase of national history" (p. 181). The 1935 act clearly
                    helped relieve unemployment by encouraging the earlier retirement of older workers, and it also
                    contributed to the ease of Franklin D.  Roosevelt's
                    reelection in 1936. Graebner sees the twenty years after World War II as the "triumph of
                    retirement." In those years many private pension plans were established to supplement the
                    minimum support levels provided by Social Security. There developed a general feeling that
                    retirement was an appropriate reward for a lifetime of work.
            By the 1970s, however, a serious reconsideration of retirement was underway. New programs of coverage
                    added to the original Social Security Act plus the ravages of inflation made the current and
                    projected costs of the program far exceed the highest cost estimates made during the 1930s. By the
                    1970s many state and municipal governments found that their retirement programs were seriously
                    underfunded. Mandatory retirement became a dirty word to many older Americans, who sought the same
                    kind of antidiscrimination legislation which earlier had helped liberate blacks and women. Victory
                    for this point of view came in the spring of 1978 with the passage of federal legislation that
                    raised the mandatory age of retirement from sixty-five to seventy both for public and private
                    employment.
            Graebner's history of retirement is a tightly reasoned study of the changing views on
                    retirement and aging during the last century. Sound in scholarship, the work is fully documented and
                    based upon primary sources, records, and periodicals of labor unions and federal agencies. A History of Retirement makes an important contribution in a field of great
                    topical interest and should be of particular value to social and economic historians.
            
               Purdue University, West 
                            Lafayette
                        
                John F. Stover
         
         
            
               Prehistoric Architecture in the Eastern 
                            United States
                        . By William N. Morgan. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: 
                        Massachusetts
                     Institute of Technology Press, 1980. Pp. xxxix, 197. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    tables, figures, bibliography, index. $25.00.)
            The many prehistoric mounds, geometric enclosures, and earthwork complexes in the eastern 
                        United States
                     have been major foci for archaeological research for more than 150 years. This book,
                    perhaps at variance with what might be inferred from the title, is concerned with such earthwork
                    features and has as a major objective the creation of a greater appreciation of their significance
                    and the cultural attainment that they represent.
            
            Of the more than four hundred sites studied eighty-two were selected for inclusion in the volume.
                    Selection was stated to have been determined by the adequacy of current information and the desire
                    for temporal and geographic representation. Each site is documented by a short statement emphasizing
                    its salient locational, cultural, and physical features and maps and isometric drawings that depict
                    the earthworks and intrasite spatial relationships. The text organization is broadly chronological
                    by geographic area, and most of the eastern states are represented. There is also a brief outline of
                    the cultural history of the region. The author is an architect and provides an overview of the site
                    data from his professional perspective.
            Two well-known Indiana sites are included: 
                        New Castle
                     earthwork group (pp. 32–33) and Angel Mounds State Memorial (pp.
                    58–60). The 
                        New Castle
                     map is with one exception a simplified version of that originally published by Eli
                    Lilly (Prehistoric Antiquities of Indiana, 1937, p. 71). The drawings for Angel
                    Mounds are in some ways more a work of art than an accurate representation of site features. For
                    example, contrary to all existing evidence, the town is depicted as being situated on an island; the
                    island that presently fronts the site has been eliminated. The main plaza definition is more than
                    ten times its actual size, and comparable functional areas are indicated where they could not have
                    existed. In addition a segment of the stockade is not included, and the structural relationship of
                    the conical offset to the largest mound is misrepresented.
            Though one would have hoped for more accuracy on this and other maps, the book does provide a useful
                    popular introduction to prehistoric earth structures in the eastern 
                        United States
                    .
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                James H. Kellar
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               A Catalog of Indiana Music and Folklore Held by the Archives of Traditional Music,
                        Indiana University. Compiled by Marilyn B. Graf. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Archives of Traditional Music, 1981. Pp. 33. Index. Pamphlet, $1.00.) This
                    catalog lists tape and disc recordings of Indiana music and folklore that are available for use at
                    the Archives of Traditional Music, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Recordings of Cole Porter, Hoagy Carmichael, Bill 
                        Monroe
                    , and 
                        Indianapolis
                     ragtime composers and performers are included as well as many lesser known but
                    important examples of Indiana's songs, ballads, and oral traditions. The catalog may be
                    ordered from the Archives of Traditional Music, Maxwell Hall, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47405. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Ball Corporation: The First Century. By Frederic A. Birmingham. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Curtis Publishing Company, Inc., 1980. Pp. 185. Illustrations, index.) This book,
                    in the nature of an "authorized biography" by a former editor of the Saturday Evening Post, is a highly personalized, undocumented but well-illustrated account
                    of the corporation's development in 
                        New York
                    , its move to 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, in 1887, and its subsequent domination of glass fruit jar manufacturing
                    through its post-World War II recovery and recent diversification. Attractively produced, it reveals
                    some of the sources and significance of the Ball Corporation's history, which still remains
                    to be written. Ralph D. Gray, Indiana University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
               An 
                            Ohio
                         Schoolmistress: The Memoirs of Irene Hardy. Edited by Louis Filler.
                            (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1980. Pp. xi, 310. End maps, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliographical note, index. $14.50.) Born in Preble County, 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1841, Irene Hardy experienced the full spectrum of nineteenth-century American
                    education, from the one-room schoolhouse to the university. These memoirs recount her first fifty
                    years, with perceptive recollections of midwestern farm life, education at Antioch College, and the
                    problems and pleasures of teaching in small rural schools; the book ends with her acceptance of a
                    position at 
                        Stanford
                     University. Ably edited by Louis Filler, An 
                            Ohio
                         Schoolmistress provides a fascinating view of life in nineteenth-century
                    America. Gary L. Bailey, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            
               Small Town America: A Narrative History, 1620-the Present. By Richard Lingeman. (
                        New York
                    : G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1980. Pp. 547. Bibliography, notes, index.
                    $15.95.) This large book surveys the history of small towns from colonial New 
                        England
                     through the trans-Appalachian pioneer villages and the trans-
                        Mississippi
                     cow towns and mining camps to the small towns that survive in late twentieth-century
                    America. Indiana readers will doubtless be especially interested in the author's several
                    chapters on the late-nineteenth and early-twentieth centuries, when the small town reached its
                    apotheosis in the Midwest. As have other authors, Richard Lingeman makes extensive use of literary
                    sources, including the work of Meredith Nicholson, Booth Tarkington, Sherwood Anderson, and Sinclair
                    Lewis. Some other kinds of sources are less ably handled, but this history provides a good
                    introduction to a most important subject. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
         
            Annual Bibliography
            The Indiana Magazine of History is planning to publish in each March issue a list
                    of recently published articles and dissertations relating to the history of Indiana. Authors and
                    readers are encouraged to aid in compiling the annual list by sending to the editor a copy of the
                    publication itself or a photocopy of the title page, including for articles a photocopy of the
                    magazine title page. Items for the March, 1982, issue should be submitted by December 1, 1981.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
